30 31 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review Developed assets The Northern Producer has a capacity of 55,000 barrels of oil per Review of operations Energy Developments EBITDA Cendor PM304, Malaysia day and associated gas, water injection and export processing continued US$ millions The division has a 30% interest, as operator, in the Cendor field in facilities.
Modifications will be carried out in 2008 to extend the life of Block PM304, offshore Peninsular Malaysia.
The other partners to the vessel.
The vessel will be deployed between West Don and Don 2007 82.8 the Production Sharing Contract are: Petronas: PetroVietnam: and Southwest, with first oil expected in 2009.
2006 40.1 Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company KUFPEC.
The 2005 32.6 Cendor field averaged production of approximately 14,300 barrels Final field development programmes for both fields have been per day and has produced over 6.3 million barrels of oil since first oil Energy Developments submitted to the Department of Business Enterprise & Regulatory Energy Developments net profit in September 2006.
A three well drilling programme, funded from existing The highlight of the year for the Energy Developments division Reform.
Approval is expected to be received during the first half of cash flow, commenced in October 2007 and is expected to sustain 2008.
The divisions estimate of gross recoverable proven reserves was the performance of the Cendor field which drove strong US$ millions Cendor peak production for longer than originally planned and to for the Don Area developments is 26.4 million barrels, while its gross growth in the divisions revenue and profits.
Good progress was 2007 33.4 develop additional reserves.
This further appraisal activity and the estimate of proven and probable reserves is 50.9 million barrels.
made in the development of the divisions portfolio during 2007, 2006 14.4 performance of the field to date has resulted in the group increasing as discussed below.
Analysis of the divisions oil & gas reserve 2005 18.3 its estimate of gross ultimate recovery of proven reserves from The Energy Developments division has contracted a semientitlements is presented for the first time on page 107.
24.6 million to 30.2 million barrels during the year.
Towards the end of submersible drilling rig for a seven well drilling programme on the 2008, the division will undertake a further five well drilling programme Don Southwest and West Don fields see note 29 to the financial within Block PM304 to appraise near field development opportunities.
statements for details of the leasing commitment.
It is expected that the rig will come on contract towards the end of the first half of 2008 Ohanet, Algeria and complete the programme by the end of the first quarter of 2009.
The division, in joint venture with BHP Billiton as joint venture operator, Japan Ohanet Oil & Gas Co, and Woodside Energy Algeria, The division acquired an additional 2.0% unitised interest in the West has invested in excess of US$100 million for a 10% share in a Risk Don field in August 2007 in exchange for its 29% interest in Block Service Contract RSC with Sonatrach, Algerias national oil company.
Following an agreement in The US$1 billion Ohanet development is located in the Illizi province of March 2007 on the unitisation of the field with the owners of Algeria, southeast of Algiers and close to the Libyan border.
Petrofacs neighbouring Blocks 211 13b and 211 18a First Oil, Valiant, Nippon Engineering & Construction division carried out the EPC contract for and Stratic and with the additional interest acquired from the the gas processing facilities in joint venture with ABB Lummus.
The Crawford asset swap referred to above, the division now owns a groups Operations Services division was also responsible for part of 27.70% operated interest in the West Don field.
The division has a the on-site commissioning works.
First gas for export began flowing in 60% operated interest in the Don Southwest field.
The Ohanet gas plant continued to perform well in 2007.
Overall production was higher than in 2006 at an average of Permit NT P68, Australia 3 3 approximately 16.4 million cubic metres per day m Energy Developments entered into a farm-in arrangement with MEO d 2006: 14.6 m d Australia Limited MEO in June 2007.
Under the terms of the farm-in, of gas for export, approximately 25,430 bpd 2006: 24,240 bpd of the division is funding 25% subject to a cap of the Heron-2 and condensate and approximately 2,110 tonnes per day 2006: 2,770 Heron-3 wells in return for a 10% interest in the Permit.
The division tonnes per day of liquefied petroleum gas a combined oil equivalent also acquired an option to secure an interest in any LNG or methanol of 153,500 bpd: 2006: 138,500 bpd.
On average, the group earned project that results from this investment.
its share of the monthly liquids production by the eighth day of the month 2006: 11th, reflecting the higher prevailing oil price in 2007.
The Heron-2 well was drilled in late 2007.
Open-hole production It is expected that the division will earn its defined return by November testing of the Elang Plover formation was conducted and while it was 2011, at which point the contract will terminate.
confirmed that the Heron North Plover sands did not contribute to the recorded flow due to blockages in the well immediately above KPC refinery, Kyrgyzstan the Heron North Plover formation, the Elang sands did flow gas to The division owns a 50% share in the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company surface at a rate of approximately 6 million standard cubic feet per KPC which is engaged in the refining of crude oil and the marketing day mmscfd.
While logs suggest that significant hydrocarbons are of oil products from the KPC refinery.
The Operations Services division operates the refinery on behalf of the joint venture partners present, the production testing of the Epenarra Darwin formation on a reimbursable basis.
During 2007, the refinery produced an only managed to produce minor flows of hydrocarbons to the average of approximately 2,500 bpd 2006: 1,700 bpd of principally surface.
The joint venture is presently reviewing the Heron-2 well, gasoline, diesel and fuel oil.
3D seismic and inversion data to support drilling of the Heron-3 appraisal well in late 2008 or early 2009.
Due to the continuing Assets under development uncertainties surrounding the commercial outcome of this project, Chergui field, Tunisia an impairment provision of US$8.7 million has been made against In February 2007, the division completed its acquisition of a 45% this asset at 31 December 2007. operating interest in the Chergui concession, for a consideration of approximately US$31 million from Entreprise Tunisienne dActivits MEO commenced drilling a sole risk well at the nearby Blackwood Ptrolires ETAP, the Tunisian national oil company, which holds the Prospect in Permit NT P68 in early 2008.
The division has an option remaining 55% interest.
Under the terms of the agreement, in addition to to participate in the prospect after the well has been drilled, albeit at the US$31 million consideration, Petrofac agreed to share costs to a substantial premium.
complete the central production facilities, pipeline to shore and associated infrastructure.
The construction of the facilities and pipeline is substantially In addition to the prospects noted above, the division reviewed, and complete, with first gas due to flow in the first half of 2008.
Plateau rates continues to review, a range of upstream and energy infrastructure are expected to be maintained for around four years with a further eight opportunities.
years of production beyond that.
Produced gas is to be sold to the national gas company, Socit Tunisienne dElectricit et Gaz STEG, Results under the gas pricing formula fixed by existing law, in which the price of Divisional revenue and net profit more than doubled from the previous gas is linked to FOB Med free on board Mediterranean fuel oil prices.
year to US$132.8 million 2006: US$62.1 million and US$33.4 million 2006: US$14.4 million respectively, due predominantly to a full year Don Southwest and West Don, UKCS contribution from the Cendor field 2006: four months including the Photographs above from top to bottom a In January 2008, the division announced that it had signed an cost oil recovery period to the end of March 2007.
The net profit Operations at Chergui gas plant, Tunisia b 1 The Cendor field, PM304, Malaysia agreement, as operator, on behalf of itself and its co-venturers includes an impairment provision of US$8.7 million against the, with c Helicopter flight, UK North Sea divisions investment in Permit NT P68 and the recognition of a net Sea Production Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern tax asset of US$11.3 million in relation to the trigger of a ring fence Offshore Limited, for the provision of the Northern Producer floating trade allowing UKCS pre-trading expenditure to be recognised as a production facility.
The Northern Producer will receive and process 1 The divisions partners on the West Don field are: First Oil 19.28%, Valiant Petroleum 17.27%, Stratic Energy 17.25% and Nippon Oil Exploration & deferred tax asset and the recognition of a net tax asset in relation to production from the Don Southwest and West Don fields in the North Photograph above Production 18.50%.
The divisions partner on the Don Southwest field is NT P68 expenditure.
Sea, before offtake via offshore tanker or nearby infrastructure.
Chergui gas plant, Tunisia 32 33 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review The skills of our Engineering & Construction division Although our competitor had an advantage through We invested money to make sure that materials were are helping an established gas plant in Egypts western familiarity with the project and an established working available on site to minimise delays to the pre-fabrication desert to double production within challenging time and relationship with the subcontractor, we won the contract and construction activities.
Our work is not always about cost constraints.
because we were able to offer completion at less cost the lowest cost you have to understand the concept of and in less time.
Around 350 kms from Alexandria and 120 kms from the Mediterranean coast, the Al Salam field was first opened We needed maximum flexibility within the schedule for The approach has paid dividends.
The 90% model up ten years ago for gas production.
The Salam plant the construction phase, to allow for unforeseen events review was completed by July 2007, just seven months has produced 200 million cubic feet per day of export and shortages of materials, says project director following the award of the contract a very impressive quality gas, via two existing gas trains, for the last eight George Salibi.
So we front-loaded resources and drove achievement for such a project.
In 2005, the joint owners of the plant Apache the engineering and procurement phases very hard We are on track to deliver the first gas by the end of Corporation and Egyptian General Petroleum Company during the early months.
For example, we placed very 2008, with both trains scheduled to be fully operational decided to increase capacity by building two new gas early orders for items such as compressors and turbine early in 2009. trains and asked Petrofac and the company which had generators.
These can sometimes have a lead time of built the existing trains to compete for the contract.
ten months or more, so early planning and procurement is essential to on-time completion.
Reducing costs and saving time to deliver value Salam gas plant, Egypt 34 35 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review A bespoke training programme to deliver additional value Training operatives of the Harweel enhanced oil recovery plant, Oman The scope of our involvement on the Harweel enhanced Building on our close working relationships with PDO, The two-year blended learning programme, which is to deliver specific elements of the bespoke training oil recovery EOR plant in Oman increased when we were we have now been appointed to put together a bespoke being delivered by our Training business within the required.
For example, trainees will spend time at appointed to create and deliver a key training contract.
training management and delivery programme to Operations Services division, has been designed to the Chemical Process Training Centre in Singapore, support PDO in their requirement to develop a skilled, embed behavioural safety deep within the culture of a world-renowned centre of excellence sponsored Petrofac Engineering & Construction was originally safe and competent workforce in Harweel specific the workforce at Harweel and targets two groups with by the Singaporean government and operated by awarded the engineering, procurement and construction operations.
The task is to train approximately 180 differing requirements: experienced technicians: and Nanyang Polytechnic.
EPC of the plant by Petroleum Development Oman people, a mixture of Omani nationals and expatriates, younger Omani technicians, from the PDO graduate PDO in 2005.
With an original project cost of US$1 billion Ultimately, the trainees will be trained and assessed on in the safe and effective operation of a complex plant in development programme.
and covering 1 km sq, Harweel is one of the largest field a competency path towards the attainment of both an extremely hostile environment the Harweel project development projects ever undertaken in Oman.
Once Our objective is to hand over a trained team that is able National Vocational Qualification NVQ Level 3 features high concentrations of hydrogen sulphide under commissioned, the plant is expected to have a capacity to run the facility to the most exacting standards, Production & Engineering Technicians and NVQ Level 4 high pressure.
of 10,000 cubic metres per day of oil production explains Ken Philip, Petrofacs training project manager.
Technical Support Supervisors and will gain a high level sustained by high pressure injection of miscible gas.
We are drawing on Petrofac expertise, through our of general technical competence together with a range world-leading experiential training facilities in Scotland, of behavioural safety skills relevant to their future roles and where appropriate, working with global partners at Harweel.
36 37 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review With an estimated 70 billion cubic feet of valuable gas In early 2007 Petrofac, through Energy Developments reserves, the Chergui project plays an important role in acquired a 45% interest in Chergui for a cash consideration Tunisias long-term energy strategy.
Although the field of around US$31 million.
The development comprises was discovered in the late 1970s, it was only in more an offshore gas production plant on Kerkennah island, recent years that Entreprise Tunisienne dActivits together with a 60km pipeline, half of which is beneath the Ptrolires ETAP, the Tunisian state-owned oil sea.
The plant has a capacity of 20 million cubic feet per Company, had awarded contracts.
Maximum production is expected to be maintained development had been characterised by delays and for four years, followed by an additional eight years difficulties, including serious safety issues.
ETAP approached and eventually chose to partner with When we took over the contract and moved onto the site in Petrofac because of our reputation for safety and our April 2007, the pipeline work had not yet been started and ability to offer a more comprehensive capability than our only a small amount of infrastructure work on the plant had peers: through our Energy Developments division we are been carried out.
The last nine months of 2007 saw a able to invest, share risk and align with our customers tremendous amount of work take place, explains Brock interests: Engineering & Construction provides a wealth Tuppeny, director of Africa Region, Energy Developments.
of engineering, design, procurement and build expertise: Weve now laid the land-based section of the pipeline and and our Operations Services division can commission completed 95% of the plant construction.
and operate the completed development.
Production is due to start in the first half of 2008, with the gas being sold to Socit Tunisienne dElectricit et Gaz STEG under the gas pricing formula fixed by existing law.
Partnering to deliver value Chergui gas plant, Tunisia 38 39 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Financial review Despite a 36.6% increase in EBITDA in the Engineering & Revenue EBITDA Construction division, its share of group EBITDA decreased due to Financial US$ millions US$ millions the very strong performance from the rest of the group.
The Energy 2007 2,440.3 2007 301.3 Developments division contributed a greater proportion of the review 2006 1,863.9 2006 198.3 groups EBITDA in 2007 due to a full year contribution from Cendor.
2005 1,485.5 2005 115.6 The Operations Services division marginally increased its contribution to the group EBITDA due principally to the commencement of Group revenue increased by 30.9% to US$2,440.3 million 2006: the Dubai Petroleum contract and the acquisition of SPD.
As a Operating profit EBITDA margin US$1,863.9 million reflecting strong growth across all three percentage of EBITDA, excluding the effect of consolidation and divisions.
Although the revenue from the Energy Developments US$ millions % elimination adjustments, Engineering & Construction accounted for division more than doubled due to the contribution from the Cendor 56.5% 2006: 63.6% of group EBITDA, Operations Services 16.6% 2007 248.5 2007 12.3 field, the increase was principally driven by the Engineering & 2006: 16.4% and Energy Developments 26.9% 2006: 20.0%.
2006 169.5 2006 10.6 Construction and Operations Services divisions which contributed 2005 88.6 2005 7.8 95% of the groups revenue.
The revenue increase in the Engineering The combined backlog of the Engineering & Construction and & Construction division was as a result of high levels of activity on Operations Services divisions increased from approximately Net profit 2007 EBITDA by division lump-sum EPC contracts, including those awarded in late 2006, US$4.2 billion at 31 December 2006 to US$4.4 billion at and a significant increase in man-hours in the divisions reimbursable 31 December 2007.
A significant proportion of the Operations US$ millions 1 Engineering & Construction 56.5% engineering business.
Growth in the Operations Services division Services divisions backlog is denominated in Sterling and therefore 2007 188.7 2 Operations Services 16.6% was primarily due to international growth throughout the division, benefited from the slight depreciation of the US dollar against 2006 120.3 3 Energy Developments 26.9% including the commencement of the Dubai Petroleum contract and Sterling from the beginning to the end of 2007.
On a constant 2005 75.4 the acquisition of SPD Group.
currency basis, group backlog increased 5.0% compared to 31 December 2006.
Net profit margin Operating profit increased by 46.6% to US$248.5 million 2006: US$169.5 million, with all three divisions showing significant growth The groups reporting currency is US dollars.
During 2007, although % in operating profit.
Operating margins increased to 10.2% 2006: there was only a slight change in the year-end US dollar Sterling 2007 7.7 9.1%, reflecting continued improvement in operating margins in the exchange rates, there was a significant depreciation of the US dollar 2006 6.5 Engineering & Construction division, a significant improvement in the against Sterling for much of the year, and there was therefore a 2005 5.1 Operations Services division, primarily due to the commencement significant impact on the reported results of the groups UK trading Backlog of the Dubai Petroleum contract, and a greater proportion of the activities, principally within the Operations Services division.
US$ billions groups operating profit coming from the high operating margins The impact on the results of the Operations Services division is 2007 4.4 earned in the Energy Developments division due principally to the discussed further on page 29.
The table below sets out the average 2006 4.2 full year contribution from the Cendor field.
and year-end exchange rates for the US dollar and Sterling for the 2005 3.2 years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 as used by the group for As a result of strong growth and good operational performance financial reporting purposes.
across all divisions, net profit increased from US$120.3 million in the prior year to US$188.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2007, an increase of 56.9%.
The net margin increased 1.2 percentage points to 7.7% 2006: 6.5%, broadly in line with the increase in the groups operating margin.
EBITDA increased from US$198.3 million to US$301.3 million, representing an EBITDA margin of 12.3% 2006: 10.6%.
The increase in the group EBITDA margin was due to the net impact of increased margins in Engineering & Construction and Operations Services due to strong operational performance and an increase in the proportion of 2007 EBITDA contribution to the overall group by the higher margin earning Energy Developments division, driven by a full year contribution from Cendor.
2 Attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
Comparative information relating to discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement and related notes to the accounts have been reclassified as continuing operations, as the management no longer considers this information to be sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure.
40 41 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Financial review As detailed in note 31 to the financial statements, the group Capital expenditure on intangible oil & gas assets during the year Financial review Earnings per share fully diluted maintained a balanced borrowing profile with 25.3% of borrowings was US$49.7 million 2006: US$12.9 million which was principally in continued maturing within one year, 54.5% maturing between one and five US cents respect of pre-development expenditure on the Energy Developments years and the remaining 20.2% maturing in more than five years 2007 54.14 Don Area assets of US$32.7 million and US$15.9 million on the 2006: 22.3%, 40.6% and 37.1% respectively.
The decrease in the 2006 34.87 divisions NT P68 investment, offshore Australia.
The accumulated average duration of borrowings reflects the existing repayment terms 2005 22.41 expenditure in relation to the Don Area assets was transferred from of the groups facilities with the Royal Bank of Scotland Halifax Bank intangible oil & gas assets to oil & gas assets within property, plant Interest of Scotland.
The borrowings repayable within one year include and equipment following sanction of the development in late 2007.
Cash generated from operations Net interest receivable for the year was US$9.7 million 2006: US$22.2 million of bank overdrafts and revolving credit facilities US$2.1 million, due principally to the groups higher average representing 19.7% of total gross borrowings, see note 24 to the US$ millions Shareholders funds cash balances during 2007. financial statements, which are expected to be renewed during 2008 Total equity at 31 December 2007 was US$486.0 million 2006: 2007 370.8 in the normal course of business 2006: US$20.4 million and 17.2% US$324.9 million.
The main elements of the increase were the 2006 328.6 Taxation of total gross borrowings.
increase in retained earnings for the year of US$149.9 million, the 2005 133.0 An analysis of the income tax charge is set out in note 6 to the favourable movement in the groups fair value of derivatives of financial statements.
The income tax charge as a percentage of The groups policy is to hedge between 60% and 80% of interest US$41.7 million, less the net gain on the maturity of cash flow EBITDA to cash conversion profit before tax in 2007 was 26.9% 2006: 29.9%.
The decrease in arising on floating rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
hedges recognised in the income statement of US$22.2 million and the effective tax rate compared to the prior year is due principally to: At 31 December 2007, 69.1% of the groups floating rate interestan increase in the cost of treasury shares held by the Company in % bearing loans and borrowings were hedged 2006: 64.8%.
During relation to employee share scheme awards of US$21.7 million.
A decrease in the effective tax rate for the Engineering & 2007 123.1 the year, the group has introduced a policy of hedging up to 75% Construction division due to a higher proportion of its profits being 2006 165.7 of its direct exposure to movements in the market price of oil on a Return on capital employed ROCE earned in lower tax jurisdictions 2005 115.1 project-by-project basis.
An analysis of the derivative instruments The group maintained a high return on capital employed for the year A decrease in the effective tax rate for the Energy Developments used by the group to hedge this exposure is contained in note 31 ended 31 December 2007 of 47.3% 2006: 45.7%.
division due to the trigger of a ring fence trade allowing UKCS preReturn on capital employed to the financial statements.
trading expenditure to be recognised as a deferred tax asset and Dividends the recognition of a net tax asset in relation to NT P68 expenditure % With the exception of Petrofac International Ltd, which undertakes The Company proposes a final dividend of 11.50 cents per share 2007 47.3 the majority of Petrofacs lump-sum EPC contracts and which, under for the year ended 31 December 2007 2006: 6.43 cents, which, Earnings per share 2006 45.7 its existing banking covenants, is restricted from making cash if approved, will be paid to shareholders on 19 May 2008 provided Fully diluted earnings per share increased from 34.87 cents per 2005 32.5 payments to Petrofac Limited in excess of 70% of its net profit in any they were on the register on 18 April 2008.
Shareholders who have share in 2006 to 54.14 cents in 2007, an increase of 55.3%, reflecting one year, none of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to any not elected to receive dividends in US dollars will receive a Sterling the groups significant increase in profitability in 2007. material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of equivalent of 5.71 pence per share.
Given the strong cash generation cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
of the business, the Board took the decision during the year to Operating cash flow and liquidity increase the percentage of earnings to distribute by way of dividend Cash generated from operations was US$370.8 million compared Capital expenditure to approximately 30% of full-year post-tax profits previously 25%.
with US$328.6 million in 2006, representing 123.1% of EBITDA Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment during the 2006: 165.7%.
The increase in net cash inflows was as a result year was US$117.2 million 2006: US$59.4 million.
The principal of increased operating profit and a reduction in net working capital elements of capital expenditure were: utilisation during the year.
The movement in net working capital arose principally from timing differences at the year end in respect of the construction of the new office building in Sharjah of US$22.0 million customer billing and supplier payment positions on long-term financial completion of the acquisition of the Chergui gas field in EPC contracts.
Tunisia, and associated EPC costs, totalling US$54.1 million capital expenditure on PM304 principally in relation to the drilling The group maintained a broadly comparable level of interest-bearing programme of US$11.5 million loans and borrowings at US$110.1 million 2006: US$117.2 million on an increased equity base, resulting in a decrease in the groups Other capital expenditure included office furniture and equipment gross gearing ratio to 22.7% at 31 December 2007 2006: 36.1%.
and plant and equipment to support the growth in the Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions.
The groups total gross borrowings before associated debt acquisition costs at the end of 2007 were US$112.4 million 2006: US$119.0 million, of which 39.3% was denominated in US dollars 2006: 38.1%, 55.3% was denominated in Sterling 2006: 56.0% with the majority of the balance, 5.3%, denominated in Kuwaiti Dinars 2006: 5.9%.
42 43 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate social responsibility The Company is an integral part of the lives of its people, of the communities in which it operates and of the broader world Corporate social and Petrofac has a clear responsibility to play its part as a positive influence.
responsibility Petrofac recognises the importance of winning and retaining stakeholder support in order to enhance the groups services and develop its reputation.
The corporate social responsibility CSR policy has been reviewed with the aim of ensuring that all worldwide activities are consistent with these objectives.
There is a lot to be proud of regarding current activities in this area and there Delivering value is a solid foundation for further development.
to our people and CSR is about how companies take account of the economic, social our communities and environmental impact of the way they operate.
For Petrofac, this ranges from the relationship with employees and customers, to that with shareholders and the society in which we work.
Petrofacs reputation and values are key to the Companys future success and they drive all work in the CSR arena.
The business The vision for the Petrofac group of companies, which guides employees and contractors as they carry out their duties, is a key factor in the successful delivery of business performance: Petrofac will be acknowledged by the oil & gas community and others as a leader in the management of health, safety, security, environment and integrity assurance HSSEIA and an expert in delivering high performance from diverse workforces in geographically challenging project and operational circumstances.
In 2007, we appointed a Group Head of HSSEIA who reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and makes periodic reports to the Board Petrofac conducts business consistent with long-established values: being safe: innovative: ethical: cost-conscious and responsive to our customers.
Together, these values combine to ensure that Petrofac is relentlessly focused on delivering results.
The Company provides a quality service to customers and makes a positive contribution to the communities where it operates To build on that position, in early 2008 the Company launched revised policies at group level, re-stating its commitment to staff and subcontractors and re-affirming its approach to corporate social responsibility The policies on the following areas can be viewed in full at www.
com responsibility Corporate social responsibility Health and safety Security Integrity assurance Environment Photograph left Photographs above from top to bottom a b Pupils of Arvind Gandbhir School, Mumbai, India Kauther gas plant, Oman c Salam gas plant, Egypt d Basketball game at Nakta Secondary School, Tunisia 44 45 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate social responsibility implementation and effectiveness and the general coverage of safety and the integrity of hydrocarbon processing plant, particularly Corporate social responsibility Health and safety performance medical assessment for those at risk, particularly for offshore and for mature facilities under Company management.
The appointment Lost time injury frequency rates and recordable injury frequency rates continued on overseas assignments, is comprehensive.
of the Group Head of HSSEIA, with responsibility for integrity are per 200,000 man hours assurance as well as HSSE matters, was made as a result of this Lost time injury frequency rates Given the diversity and remoteness of many project locations, increased focus.
2007 0.07 the security of personnel continues to be a key issue.
Petrofac is 2006 0.06 committed to creating a safe working environment for everybody Petrofac hosted a safety conference in November 2007 with the 2005 0.07 who has the potential to be affected by its activities.
theme of Process Safety and Asset Integrity.
Industry speakers Health, safety and security included representatives of BP, Shell and BG Group.
Learning from There are well-established safety management systems in each Recordable injury frequency rates A comprehensive monthly security briefing is provided to all divisional the outcomes of this conference and other industry initiatives, division and to complement these a complete review of processes 2007 0.35 management teams and this is also factored into the general risk including the UK Step Change in Safety movement, has been part of and procedures has begun with the intent of cascading improvement.
2006 0.41 review process as new projects and their locations are evaluated.
the development of the Companys approach to safeguarding those This includes the establishment of group-wide review boards for 2005 0.55 Further development to safeguard the security of the Companys assets for which it has management responsibility around the world.
major hazard incidents and accidents and ensuring effective Lost time injury LTI and recordable injury RI frequency rates are measured on the staff and subcontractors will continue during 2008. management of asset integrity for all Petrofac managed assets.
basis of reported LTI and RI statistics for all Petrofac companies, subcontractors People These processes were commenced during 2007 and will and partners expressed as a frequency rate per 200,000 man hours.
Environment Petrofac is a people business.
People are the Companys most be fully established during the first half of 2008.
Petrofac understands the importance of giving proper consideration valuable asset: they create Petrofacs competitive edge and ensure to protecting the environment and is committed to conducting that customer expectations are exceeded.
2007 saw numbers During 2007, the groups employees and subcontractors completed operations which minimise environmental impact, with a target increase from some 7,800 to around 9,600 at the end of the year.
60 million man-hours 2006: 38 million of activity.
The groups duty of zero environmental incidents.
As an international organisation, Petrofac believes that its workforce, of care extends to these parties and as such they are included in the management and recruitment should reflect the diverse communities analysis of the groups safety performance.
During the year the As reported last year, the Company established an Environmental in which it operates and this is demonstrated in the graduate group experienced 104 recordable incidents 2006: 78, a recordable Committee in 2006.
The Committee is a Board Committee and recruitment programme: the Company recruited 167 graduates in incident frequency rate of 0.35 per 200,000 man-hours 2006: 0.41. chaired by the Chairman, Rodney Chase.
Other members of the 2007, from Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
For the fifth year in a row this frequency rate has reduced.
20 lost Committee are: Ayman Asfari: Amjad Bseisu: Robin Pinchbeck and time injuries were experienced by either our employees or our subcontractors during 2007 2006: 10, a lost time injury frequency Maroun Semaan.
The Committee is supported in its work by John Many employees are shareholders and the Company will continue rate of 0.07 2006: 0.06.
This compares well with industry published Methven, the Group Head of HSSEIA.
to support employee share ownership.
Around 25% of eligible data but further action is being taken to improve this performance employees in the UK are participating in the Share Incentive Plan, during 2008.
The Committee exists to advise the Board on the adoption of which the Company believes demonstrates that people choose to the groups environmental policy: review the groups compliance share in its success when offered the opportunity.
This scheme is As an organisation Petrofac wants to eliminate accidents and injuries with the policy: and review the effectiveness of the Companys open to all employees who are employed in the UK and employees to people in all aspects of its business: we recognise that this is a environmental management systems, environmental targets and are able to buy shares each month.
Furthermore, some 13% of demanding target but will strive to do this throughout 2008 and key performance indicators.
selected employees across the globe participate in at least one of beyond.
The Companys Horizon Zero health and safety campaign, the groups share incentive schemes.
Further details of these which won the UK Offshore Contractors Association OCA safety The Board, on the recommendation of the Environmental schemes the Performance Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Share Plan award in 2006, provides the framework to help achieve this.
For Committee, adopted a new environmental policy and vision and Restricted Share Plan can be found on pages 61 to 62 of the further details, visit www.
co. uk statement in 2007, which has provided fresh impetus for further Remuneration Report.
development of environmental plans for all activities.
Most parts of In 2007, 24 major hazard events high potential incidents were the Operations Services and Engineering & Construction divisions Petrofac is committed to listening to the views of its people and to recorded although not all of them resulted in any personal injury.
have achieved certified environmental management systems and having regular, open communication throughout the business.
Petrofac However, the decision was taken during the year to examine such Petrofac remains committed to working towards certification to appointed a Head of Communications during the year, with the remit to events even more carefully than previously, with a view to identifying ISO 14001 for all business operations.
promote a shared sense of culture and values across the group.
an events root causes and, going forward, applying any lessons that the Company has been able to learn.
This focus will continue in 2008.
The Company underlined its commitment to minimising direct impact on A regular magazine, Petrofacts, as well as a number of local intranet climate change in a number of ways during 2007.
As stated in last years sites for employees, help to ensure that everyone is kept up to date Such an incident took place on the Thistle Alpha platform licensed Annual Report, baselines have been established in respect of the with Company developments.
A new global intranet as well as operator: Lundin Britain: duty holder: Petrofac in November 2007 in carbon footprint for emissions for each division.
Going forward, Petrofac improved email communication are planned for 2008, which aim the UK northern North Sea.
No one was injured as a result of an will establish KPIs in respect of these emissions with the intention of to reach all our employees, no matter how remote.
engine fire which was contained within the enclosure of one of the seeking a meaningful reduction in the Companys carbon footprint.
platforms power generation gas turbine driven units.
During the During 2007, the Company carried out its first independent groupincident however the installation manager deemed it appropriate to Environmental awareness months were held at the two main wide employee survey PetroVoices in order to solicit employee evacuate temporarily 116 non-essential personnel while the fire was business centres in Sharjah and Aberdeen and many worthwhile perceptions on a wide range of matters in relation to their brought under control.
The calm, professional approach to handling and effective initiatives and education programmes were completed, employment.
Around 50% of those invited to do so participated and this incident was praised by HM coastguard and other parties involved including staff in Sharjah taking part in clean-up activities at the local the target is to increase this figure significantly in 2008.
The survey and Petrofac is enormously grateful for the support of all those who beach area and the planting of trees in the locality.
highlighted a number of areas where the Company is achieving ensured a safe conclusion to this incident.
The worldwide media success for example, 84% of respondents said they were proud coverage of this event was a clear indicator of the spotlight under The Engineering & Construction division has made good progress to be a part of Petrofac and 81% responded favourably to questions which our industry finds itself.
This reinforces Petrofacs endeavours in ensuring that environmental considerations are incorporated into about work conditions and safety.
However, there are also areas for to bring continuing focus to all aspects of its managed operations.
a projects planning as a matter of course.
From 2007 onwards, improvement, such as in talent and performance management, and This incident also tested emergency response and crisis management all new Engineering & Construction projects have included an these areas will be the subject of renewed focus in 2008. preparedness and procedures from local to group level.
These worked environmental planning element.
Both of the other divisions also very well but, notwithstanding this, lessons have been learned and are have activities and operations which require environmental plans There are processes in place which enable staff to raise concerns being applied across the business.
and or impact statements from the outset.
Petrofac aims to respond to all queries and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is informed of concerns raised.
In 2007 Petrofac experienced 33 incidents involving vehicles either Asset integrity The PetroVoices survey showed that a very significant proportion of on project sites or when personnel were travelling from site to site It is Petrofacs responsibility to safeguard everyone associated with employees who responded were aware of the speaking up process 2006: 26.
During the year a new driver monitoring system was hydrocarbon operations which are designed, constructed, operated, but going forward, the Company wants to raise this figure.
installed on all Company owned vehicles: this together with the managed or supported by the Company.
Standards have been set increased provision of driver training has been a key activity during which aim to ensure that no unforeseen process, operational or The Companys Code of Business Conduct will also be reviewed the period.
In 2008, divisions will report on their compliance to the major hazard events occur as a result of Petrofacs activities.
again in 2008 with the purpose of making it more relevant and newly established vehicle standard.
The intention is to re-evaluate how the Code From an industry perspective, and as a result, amongst other is communicated to employees.
Photographs above from top to bottom a Kittiwake helipad, UK North Sea The health and welfare of staff is vital to the business.
Measures are matters, of the publishing of the detailed report and findings b Petrofac help with tree planting, Sharjah, UAE in place to assess the health and fitness of senior management in all surrounding the Texas City refinery incident, a significant and c Celebrating 16 million man-hours without LTI on KOC upgrade project, divisions.
The group health programme was reviewed for its increased focus has been placed on the management of process Kuwait 46 47 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate social responsibility For the past five years, Cornerstone Community Care has been the Community Corporate social responsibility chosen charity of Petrofac Facilities Management.
Cornerstone aims Petrofac is mindful of its responsibilities to the communities where continued to offer services and support to people with learning disabilities and it operates and works hard to ensure that relationships with nonto their families.
Petrofac provides financial support to Cornerstone governmental organisations, customers, suppliers, communities and and many employees take an active interest in the charity.
governments are founded on the basis of mutual respect.
This partnership was recognised publicly when it won the In 2007, the Company joined the UK-based Business in the Partnership Fundraising Award at the Institute of Fundraising Awards Community BITC organisation which aims to improve the impact 2007, with Petrofac and Cornerstone beating off competition from business has on society.
Petrofac made a membership donation of the Microsoft and Children 1st partnership.
The award judges were 11,500 to BITC, which has more than 800 member companies especially impressed by the extent to which it is a genuine including more than 70 of the UKs FTSE 100.
We believe that Petrofac partnership with both sides showing an equal amount of support has much to offer and, indeed, much to gain by joining them.
The year was characterised by a huge range of examples of how the 2007 was the third year that Petrofac sponsored Street Football, Company contributes to communities, primarily through the support a project run in conjunction with Grampian Police and the Robert of education.
Gordon University which aims to tackle anti-social youth behaviour.
Street Football uses a mobile sports arena to encourage In Egypt, where Petrofac is currently executing a contract for Khalda Petroleum, the Company jointly funded the build and furnishing of two, participation in a range of sporting activities in areas of Aberdeen one-room schools in the Matrouh area in the Western Desert for the with high levels of youth disaffection.
The Street Football initiative local Bedouin community.
The schools are equipped with running was shortlisted for the 2007 Times Higher Education Supplement water and electricity and feature a large classroom together with living Award THES for Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community.
Each school will provide primary education for around 40 children between the ages of four and 11.
Petrofac continues to be a principal sponsor of the Aberdeen Youth Festival, which showcases the musical, dancing and acting talents of In Tunisia, Petrofacs work to build the new Hasdrubal onshore gas young people from around the world.
Techfest, a festival of science, processing facility was complemented by a close relationship with the technology and engineering in Aberdeen for school children, also local authorities which has seen the Company fund an extension to benefited from the Companys support.
the secondary school in the town of Nakta.
The school currently has over 600 students between the ages of 12 and 16 and the extension 2008 marks the tenth anniversary of Petrofacs nationally acclaimed will provide a much needed resource to enable completion of studies education-industry partnership with Kincorth Academy in Aberdeen, and homework.
The new hall extension will be handed over fully helping to raise significant funding for the school and providing pupils equipped with new computers and other learning resources.
with skills and experiences that will help them in their future careers.
Recent initiatives have included the development of the innovative The launch of the Petrofac Scholarship for Studies in Engineering Passport to Work scheme, in line with the Scottish Executives was also announced during 2007, in collaboration with the Arvind Determined to Succeed initiative.
Gandbhir Secondary School at Jogeshwari in northern Mumbai, India.
Scholarships are awarded to high-performing pupils whose In Woking, Petrofac has worked with the Surrey Care Trust for the family circumstances would otherwise not afford them such past six years, focusing on the welfare of the local community.
95 pupils were selected to receive the awards based on Petrofac provides financial support to the Crisis Grants welfare a selection criteria relating to individual academic performance and arm of the trust, providing a lifeline for local people living under family income.
The ultimate goal is to help individuals continue their extraordinarily difficult circumstances.
education in a recognised establishment where they will pursue an engineering qualification.
The Company has built a long and significant relationship with Kenny Herriott, one of the worlds leading wheelchair athletes, and this In Sharjah, Petrofac provided financial support to a further eight continued during 2007.
Towards the end of the year, Kenny won the students in the School of Engineering at the American University as a Las Vegas wheelchair marathon.
result of a US$2 million endowment, which was reported in last years Annual Report.
The Company also supported the American University In 2007, Petrofac successfully introduced a Payroll Giving scheme in Beirut and made a significant donation to the Sharjah English in the United Kingdom.
All permanent employees who are paid School for the creation of an IT suite in the new secondary school.
through the UKs Pay As You Earn PAYE taxation system can give on a regular basis to charity in a tax-efficient and easily managed The Company recently announced its support for a pilot education way.
To encourage participation, the Company pays all the initiative in Southern Sudan and has committed US$400,000 administration charges and matches 50% of the total of these over two years to a non-governmental organisation called BRAC.
On the anniversary of the scheme, the Companys The grant will fund the building of 60 schools in several areas of matching donations will go to education and training focused Southern Sudan creating around 1,800 school places for children, charities chosen from a shortlist by our employees.
predominantly girls, aged between six and 11 years.
The non-formal education programme will be delivered through  has a policy of not making political donations.
room schools, by local women trained as para teachers.
The children will follow the national curriculum, completing the courses in a shorter time which will encourage enrolment and retention.
Petrofac believes these efforts are both cost effective and sustainable.
Petrofacs UK team has a long history of community involvement and in 2007 the Community Involvement Group CIG again provided support to a large number of charities, groups and individuals.
Photographs above from top to bottom Photographs above from top to bottom a b a Pupils of the Matrouh School, Egypt Arvind Gandbhir School, Mumbai c b Pupils of the Nakta Secondary School, Tunisia Cornerstone Community Care, Aberdeen c Surrey Care Trust, Woking, UK 48 49 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Board of Directors 1 Rodney Chase 6 Keith Roberts c d Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Chairman Board of 1 Keith Roberts joined Petrofac in March 2002 as Chief Financial Rodney Chase was appointed non-executive Chairman of Petrofac Officer having spent most of his working life as an investment banker in June 2005.
Rodney spent 38 years at BP plc, of which 11 were Directors based in the City of London.
After positions in commercial banking served on its board.
He was deputy group CEO on his retirement with Standard Chartered Bank and then with County Bank, the from the BP group in May 2003.
He also spent time as CEO of the merchant banking subsidiary of National Westminster Bank, Keith exploration and production, and marketing and refining divisions.
moved into corporate finance with Hawkpoint Partners where he He continues to serve as non-executive deputy chairman of Tesco was a managing director and a member of the operating committee.
plc: non-executive director of Computer Sciences Corporation: He has previously served as a non-executive director of the Peacock non-executive director of Nalco Company: non-executive director Group plc.
Age 51. of Tesoro Corporation: and senior advisor to Lehman Brothers.
He has previously held positions as a board member of BOC plc 7 Kjell Almskog and Diageo plc.
Age 64. a c e Non-executive Director 2 Ayman Asfari Kjell Almskog was appointed to the Petrofac Board in March 2005.
2 3 c d Group Chief Executive Kjell has held a number of senior executive positions including Ayman Asfari joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Petrofac 13 years at the international ABB group most latterly as deputy International.
Ayman has more than 25 years experience in the oil group CEO and Head of its Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals division.
& gas industry and served as Chief Executive Officer of Petrofac He was then Chief Executive of Kvaerner from 1998 until its merger International until his appointment as Group Chief Executive of with Aker in 2001.
Kjell was appointed non-executive Chairman of Petrofac Limited in January 2002.
Ayman previously worked as the Intex Resources ASA, a Norwegian listed mining and exploration managing director of a major civil and mechanical construction company in November 2007.
He continues to serve as non-executive business based in Oman.
Ayman currently serves as a member of deputy chairman of Kverneland Group ASA: a non-executive director The Board of Trustees of The American University of Beirut.
Age 49. of Orkla ASA: Kitron ASA: and senior advisor to the Taylor Group.
3 Michael Press a b c e Senior Independent Director, non-executive Director 8 Amjad Bseisu d 4 5 Michael Press was appointed to the Petrofac Board in April 2002, Chief Executive, Energy Developments having previously held senior executive positions for the Standard Oil Amjad Bseisu joined Petrofac in 1998 and founded the Energy Company Inc and BP and as a main board director of Amerada Developments business.
In 2007, Amjad rejoined the Petrofac Board Hess.
Between 1997 and 2001, Michael held various posts at KBC having previously served for several years prior to the Companys Advanced Technologies including non-executive director, executive admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2005.
From chairman, and chief executive.
In 2007, Michael was appointed non- 1984 to 1998, Amjad worked for the Atlantic Richfield Company executive chairman of TWMA, an Aberdeen based global drilling ARCO, ultimately as head of International Marketing, Negotiations waste management firm and interim chairman of RigNet Inc, a US and Business Development and president of ARCO Petroleum company serving the upstream oil & gas industry.
He continues to Ventures and ARCO Crude Trading, Inc. Amjad was a founding serve as senior independent director of Chart Industries Inc. Age 60. non-executive director of Serica Energy plc and Stratic Energy Corporation.
4 Maroun Semaan d Chief Executive, Engineering & Construction 9 Rijnhard van Tets 6 7 a b e Maroun Semaan joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Petrofac Non-executive Director International.
From 1977 to 1991, Maroun held various project Rijnhard van Tets was appointed a non-executive Director of Petrofac positions with Consolidated Contractors International Co. based in in 2007.
Rijnhard is general partner of Laaken Asset Management NV.
the Middle East, where he was involved in the management of oil & He was an adviser to the managing board of ABN Amro between gas pipeline, process facilities and civil works projects in Oman and 2002 and 2007, having previously served as a member of ABN Bahrain.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Petrofac Engineering Amros managing board for 12 years.
Rijnhard occupied a number of & Construction in April 2004.
Maroun currently serves as a member very senior executive positions at ABN AMRO, most latterly as of The Board of Trustees of The American University Of Sharjah.
chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale Clients and Investment Age 52.
Rijnhard currently serves as a non-executive chairman of the boards of Arcadis NV: Euronext 5 Bernard fide Combret Amsterdam NV: Euronext NV: and Equity Trust Holdings SARL and is b c e Non-executive Director a non-executive director of IFF Europe: NYSE Euronext Inc: Stichting Administratiekantoor Bhrmann NV: and a number of charitable Bernard fide Combret was appointed to the Petrofac Board in 8 9 organisations.
Bernard was deputy chairman of Totals executive committee until his retirement in 2002.
Following senior positions in both the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Finance, he spent 24 years with Elf and subsequently Total where he was CEO of refining marketing: CEO for gas, power, new energies: and CEO for trading and shipping.
He is currently a non-executive director of Madagascar Oil: Winstar Resources Ltd: Coastal Energy: and a member of the international advisory board of Grupo Santander.
He has previously held positions as a board member of Renault VI, CEPSA and Banco Central Hispano.
Age 65. a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee d Member of the Environmental Committee e Member of the Risk Committee 50 51 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Senior management team 10 John Methven 5 Gordon East 1 2 Group Head of Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Managing Director of Petrofac Facilities Management, Senior Integrity Assurance Operations Services John joined Petrofac in 1998, initially as an operations manager in the Gordon joined Petrofac in 2006 as managing director of Petrofac management facilities management business in Aberdeen.
Immediately before his Facilities Management with overall responsibility for further developing appointment as Group Head of HSSEIA in 2008, he was responsible and running Petrofacs operations management and operations team for Petrofac Facilities Managements European operations.
John has services businesses in the UK and the rest of the world.
He is a responsibility for ensuring that the group continues to develop its member of the Operations Services divisional board.
Prior to joining health, safety, security, environmental and integrity assurance Petrofac, Gordon spent more than 20 years with ConocoPhillips in programmes.
He reports to the Group Chief Executive.
He has both upstream and operations roles.
Gordon has an MA in 3 4 5 30 years operational experience in the oil & gas industry and was Engineering from Cambridge University and an MSc in Petroleum recently elected co-chair of Step Change in Safety, an organisation Engineering from Imperial College London.
Age 44. whose membership is made up from the oil & gas industry and which aims to promote high safety standards within the industry.
6 Rory Edwards John started his career as a sea-going engineering officer.
John is Vice President, Upstream Business Development and Operations a Chartered Petroleum Engineer in the UK.
Support, Energy Developments Rory is responsible for the development of new business within Energy Developments.
During his tenure, the division has acquired interests in 11 Vivek Prakash Malaysia, the UK and Tunisia.
His focus is on undeveloped production Executive Vice President, Finance, Engineering & Construction 6 7 8 opportunities where the capabilities of the group can be used to Vivek joined Petrofac in 2004 as a member of the Engineering & create value.
Rory has 28 years experience in the oil & gas industry, Construction divisional board and has overall responsibility for the including 14 years with Amerada Hess in the UK, most latterly as divisions finance and IT functions.
Vivek has worked in the oil & gas deputy managing director in their emerging international business with industry for nearly 20 years.
Prior to joining Petrofac, Vivek was a responsibility for operations in eight countries.
During his career with board director of Dodsal Pte Limited, an oil & gas contractor, where he Amerada Hess, Rory developed the commercial structures enabling had responsibility for overseeing Dodsals international activities.
Vivek several previously dormant discoveries to be brought to fruition, is a Chartered Accountant and holds a degree in Economics from the including Nevis and Telford.
He is a petroleum engineer having University of Delhi.
Age 51. graduated from London University with degrees in Mechanical 9 10 11 Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
12 Subramanian Sarma Executive Vice President, Projects and Deputy Chief Operating 7 Leigh Howarth Officer of Petrofac International, Engineering & Construction Managing Director of Petrofac Training, Operations Services Subramanian joined Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division as Leigh joined Petrofac in 2002 following Petrofacs acquisition of PGS a project manager in 1997.
After holding various positions in project Production Services where he was group finance director.
Leigh management, he was subsequently made Head of Engineering and established Petrofacs group finance function in 2003 and played a key appointed to the divisional board in 2005.
In 2007, he was promoted role in Petrofacs successful admission to listing on The London Stock to the position of Executive Vice President, Projects and Deputy Chief Exchange in 2005.
In 2006, Leigh moved from his role as Group Operating Officer of Petrofac International, with responsibility for the 12 13 14 Financial Controller to the position of managing director of Petrofac successful delivery of projects in the Middle East, North Africa and Training.
As such, Leigh has overall responsibility for developing and Caspian regions.
Prior to joining Petrofac, Subramanian worked for running the groups UK and global training and consultancy businesses.
Kvaerner and Jacobs in India and Oman and has more than 25 years He is a member of the Operations Services divisional board.
Leigh has experience in the oil & gas industry.
He holds an MSc in Chemical more than ten years experience in the oil & gas industry.
He has a Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology.
Age 49. degree in Economics, Accounting and Financial Management from the University of Sheffield and is qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
13 Rajesh Verma Executive Vice President, Strategic Initiatives & Chief Executive 1 Robin Pinchbeck 3 Marwan Chedid 8 Rob Jewkes Officer, Petrofac India, Engineering & Construction Chief Executive, Operations Services Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of Petrofac Executive Vice President & Managing Director of Petrofac Rajesh joined Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division in 1992 Robin joined Petrofac in 2002.
He is Chief Executive of Operations International, Engineering & Construction Engineering, Engineering & Construction as a project manager when the division was first established in Sharjah.
Services and consequently sits on the Operations Services divisional Marwan joined Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division as a Rob joined Petrofac in 2004 with the objective of building a EuropeHe is a member of the divisions board with responsibility for Engineering board.
From 1995, Robin was managing director of Atlantic Power & project manager when the division was first established in Sharjah in based engineering and construction business, to complement the & Constructions strategic initiatives and Indian Operations.
He has Gas, a leading UK North Sea operations management and services 1992.
He was subsequently promoted to regional director at the same Engineering & Construction divisions existing operations in Sharjah.
responsibility for identifying potential acquisition opportunities: ensuring provider and pioneer of the contractor duty holder model.
Atlantic time as becoming a member of the divisional board.
In 2007, he was Based in our Woking office in the UK, Rob has overseen impressive that the division is appropriately resourced: and expanding the divisions Power & Gas was sold in 1998 to Petroleum Geo-Services ASA, which appointed Chief Operating Officer of Petrofac International, with daygrowth particularly in relation to conceptual, front-end and detailed technical offering if appropriate.
Following the divisions strategic decision was subsequently purchased by Petrofac in 2002.
Robin established to-day responsibility for the successful delivery of overall operations.
engineering and project management services to the European, North to expand its engineering design function outside the UK, Rajesh Petrofacs facilities management business and as Chief Executive of Marwan previously worked for a major civil and mechanical African and Caspian regions.
Rob is a member of the divisional board managed the establishment and expansion of the offices in Mumbai Operations Services retains ultimate responsibility for this business in construction business based in the Gulf and the Middle East for 12 and has more than 30 years experience in the oil & gas industry.
Prior and Chennai in India and continues to have overall responsibility for addition to the groups training business.
Robin has more than 30 years and has more than 25 years experience in the oil & gas sector.
to joining Petrofac, Rob served as chief executive officer of Clough Indian operations.
He has more than 25 years experience in the oil & years experience in the oil & gas industry, spending 23 years with BP He holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the American Engineering, the main operating company of the Australian gas industry and holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the before moving to Atlantic Power & Gas.
Robin is a graduate of Imperial University of Beirut.
Age 47. engineering group, Clough Limited.
Rob holds a degree in Civil Birla Institute of Technology and Sciences in India.
College London and Stanford University.
Engineering from the University of Western Australia.
4 Bill Dunnett 14 Peter Warner 2 Richard Milne Executive Vice President, Project Development, Energy 9 Jeanne-Marie fide Larrazabal Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Engineering & Group Head of Legal and Commercial Affairs Developments Vice President, Commercial, Energy Developments Construction Richard joined Petrofac in 2004 with overall responsibility for advising Bill joined Petrofac in 2007 with responsibility for asset development, Jeanne-Marie joined Petrofac in 2006 with responsibility for all legal Peter joined Petrofacs Engineering & Construction division in 2000 on the legal and commercial aspects of the groups activities.
Richard which includes leading the project management and operation of the and commercial aspects of Energy Developments business and as as head of the divisions sales and marketing function and is a was heavily involved in Petrofacs successful admission to listing on greater Don Area Fields in the UKCS.
Bill has over 23 years experience such, she advises on the legal and commercial aspects of corporate member of the divisions board.
He has overall divisional responsibility The London Stock Exchange in 2005 and in developing the groups in the oil & gas industry and is a member of the Energy Developments and asset opportunities: negotiates a wide variety of commercial for the identification of potential opportunities: management of bid governance and compliance framework.
As a member of the groups divisional board.
Prior to joining Petrofac, Bill spent eight years at arrangements and provides commercial solutions to disputes.
submissions: and delivery of the divisions sales targets.
Peter has senior management team, Richard participates in the groups risk Halliburton and its subsidiary KBR, as a senior vice president and Jeanne-Marie is also asset manager for certain upstream areas and 30 years experience of sales and marketing in the oil & gas industry review process and advises on corporate matters as well as on all corporate officer and his responsibilities included membership of the provides assistance in overseeing business development.
She is a having previously worked for Davy McKee, KBR and Stone & Webster.
commercially significant issues affecting the group.
Prior to joining KBR Executive Leadership Team, Global Operations and Maintenance, member of the Energy Developments divisional board.
Jeanne-Marie Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Chemical Engineers and a Petrofac, Richard spent some 15 years in corporate finance after also restructuring and completing the major Barracuda Caratinga has over 27 years experience in the oil & gas industry.
Prior to joining Chartered Engineer in the UK.
He holds a degree in Chemical working in the insurance brokerage industry.
Richard is a graduate of offshore EPC project in Brazil.
Bill spent his earlier career with Mobil Petrofac, she spent 20 years at LASMO plc, latterly as a group general Engineering from St. Johns College, Cambridge University.
Oxford University and qualified as a solicitor.
He is a chartered engineer and graduated with a manager.
Jeanne-Marie is a graduate of the London Metropolitan Robin Pinchbeck and Richard Milne are members of the group executive first in Engineering from Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh.
University and qualified as a barrister.
All others are shown in alphabetical order.
52 53 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal Attendance by the Directors at the scheduled meetings of the Board Code relating to corporate governance.
Nevertheless, the Board was as follows: is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has therefore decided to adhere, wherever possible, Number of meetings 6 to the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Rodney Chase published in 2006 the Combined Code, in the same way as if the Non-executive Chairman 6 Company was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
This Report, Kjell Almskog together with the Nominations Committee Report, Audit Committee Non-executive Director 6 Report and Directors Remuneration Report, has been prepared Bernard fide Combret by reference to the Combined Code.
The Directors consider that Non-executive Director 6 throughout 2007 and up to the date hereof, the Company has fully Michael Press complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Senior Independent Director 6 1 The Combined Code has identified four subject areas, which Rijnhard van Tets underpin good corporate governance and these are: Non-executive Director 3 Directors Ayman Asfari Directors remuneration Group Chief Executive 6 Accountability and audit 2 Amjad Bseisu Relations with shareholders Chief Executive, Energy Developments 2 Keith Roberts Directors Chief Financial Officer 6 The Board Maroun Semaan The Board is responsible to shareholders for the control and Chief Executive, Engineering & Construction 6 leadership of the group and for safeguarding the Companys reputation.
The Board currently has nine members and details 1 Rijnhard van Tets joined the Board on 11 May 2007 following his appointment by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
He attended all scheduled of the individuals skills and experience are contained in the meetings held after his appointment to the Board.
Directors biographies on pages 48 and 49.
2 Amjad Bseisu joined the Board on 11 May 2007 following his appointment by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
He attended two of the three The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for scheduled meetings held after his appointment to the Board.
The Board meeting, which he missed, was due to an engagement arranged before his appointment decision, including, but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature: to the Board.
approval of the annual budget: approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals: major changes to the groups capital Chairman and Chief Executive structure: the preparation of financial statements: the recommendation The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly or declaration of dividends: the entry into contracts which are separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for deemed to be material strategically or by reason of size: succession the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting planning and appointments to the Board: executive remuneration: its agenda and for ensuring that there is effective communication ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls: with all shareholders.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective reviewing its own and its committees performance: and reviewing contribution of all Directors and ensures that there is a constructive the groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
relationship between the executive and non-executive Directors.
The role of the Group Chief Executive is to provide leadership to The Board met regularly during the year.
The Board met in person management in running the business and to develop proposals for at six meetings, which had been scheduled well in advance.
In 2007, the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement.
the Board held three such meetings in Continental Europe: one meeting in Sharjah, the United Arab Emirates, where the group Board balance and independence has its largest office: one meeting in Jersey where the Company The Board believes that it is of sufficient size to contain an is incorporated: and one meeting in Kuwait where the group has appropriate balance of skills and experience but not so large as significant business operations.
In addition, the Board held a number to be unwieldy.
The Board considers all four non-executive Directors of telephone conference Board meetings at relatively short notice, which expression excludes the Chairman to be independent in which arose as a result of specific business, usually in relation to a character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships or particular commercial project between scheduled Board meetings.
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect the The agenda for each scheduled Board meeting allows the Chairman judgement of any of them.
The extensive knowledge and experience and non-executive Directors to meet without executives present.
of the non-executive Directors combined with the focus and In addition, the Board attended a strategy and business planning experience of the Chairman and executive Directors enable the day with members of senior management.
Board to lead and give direction to the group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision making.
Any Director having a concern in this or any other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary to the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if required.
54 55 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Performance evaluation made by the group in relation to its risk management.
The group The Board is assisted by various committees, principally the Directors approach Having used an external facilitator to help evaluate Board, committee appointed a Head of Enterprise Risk Management during the year, Nominations, Audit, and Remuneration Committees.
Reports for The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable and individual performance in 2006, the Board decided it would who supports the Risk Committee.
It is anticipated that the Risk 2007 from each of these committees are provided from pages 56 assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in undertake an internal review of its performance in 2007.
Each the Annual Report, Interim Report and other published documents Committee will provide support to the Audit Committee in its to 65.
The Board keeps the membership of the committees under Director completed an extensive questionnaire prepared by and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit responsibility for internal control and risk management matters review.
In May, the Boards number of independent, non-executive reference to the Combined Code and the Secretary to the Board Committee to assist with this obligation.
rather than take on this role exclusively for itself.
The Board, with Directors increased from three Directors to four Directors upon collated the results.
The Chairman subsequently led a formal the assistance of the Head of Enterprise Risk Management, will the appointment of Rijnhard van Tets.
The Board accordingly discussion of all Directors as a consequence of which various Going concern continue to keep the groups risk management and reporting system, took the opportunity to refresh the membership of the Audit actions were agreed for the forthcoming year.
Michael Press, the The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern including the role of the Risk Committee, under review in the and Remuneration Committees as a consequence of which there Senior Independent Director, led a separate evaluation of the basis since the Directors have reasonable expectation that, firstly, the forthcoming year.
is no longer common membership of these two committees, Chairman through a series of questionnaire led interviews with other Companys and groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that which the Board believes helps to prevent undue reliance on members of the Board and senior management.
Board evaluation adequate resources are available to continue in operational existence As well as considering existing risks, a process exists for the any individual Director.
will continue on an annual basis.
consideration of risks associated with undertaking new business through divisional and group risk review committtees.
Appointments to the Board Re-election of Directors Internal control The Nominations Committee ensures a formal, rigorous and All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
In the to submit themselves to shareholders for re-appointment after groups system of internal control, including financial, operational disclosed on pages 24 and 25. case of candidates for non-executive Directorships, care is taken to their initial appointment by the Board and thereafter by rotation and compliance controls and systems for the identification and ascertain whether they will have sufficient time to fulfil their Board, and if applicable, committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, at least once every three years.
Sufficient biographical information management of risk.
The Audit Committee routinely meets with both Assurances candidates disclose all other time commitments and on appointment, and other information including, in the case of a non-executive the internal and external auditors and discusses matters of internal The Board receives assurances from the following internal controls: undertake to inform the Chairman of any proposed changes.
The Director seeking re-appointment, a statement as to their continued control.
In addition, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are effectiveness and commitment is provided to enable shareholders conducted a specific review of the internal control environment full year with significant variances are regularly reported by available from the Secretary to the Board on request.
to make an informed decision.
The groups system of internal control can management to the Board only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Reports from the Audit Committee, which includes feedback from Information and professional development Directors remuneration material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather the internal auditors: the Environmental Committee: and in due To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors remuneration, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
course the Risk Committee appropriate documentation in advance of Board meetings.
The the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely of independent nonThe close involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects agenda and appropriate supporting Board papers are distributed executive Directors, is responsible for determining the remuneration The group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and of the groups day-to-day operations, including regular divisional by the Secretary to the Board at least a week and 24 hours and conditions of employment of executive Directors and senior managing significant risks faced by the group, which has been in meetings with each divisions senior management respectively, in advance of each scheduled and telephone Board management.
A Report on the Directors remuneration, including place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Client audits meeting.
In addition, all Directors are encouraged to make further a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Report and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull guidance.
Reports and presentations to the Board by senior management enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive Directors or Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 58 to 65. including the Group Head of Legal and Commercial Affairs: the management team.
The key elements which make up a robust system of internal control Group Head of HSSEIA: the Group Head of Insurance and Group Accountability and audit in a business may be characterised by the business control Head of Tax The Chairman implemented a formal programme of training during Statement of Directors responsibilities environment: risk management: and assurance processes.
the year, which covered topics designed both to increase familiarity The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and A description of each of these elements for the group is given below.
Relations with shareholders with the groups business operations as well as to develop technical the group financial statements in accordance with applicable Jersey The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of skills and knowledge.
At four of the scheduled Board meetings held law and generally accepted accounting principles.
The Directors are Control environment Investor Relations have regular meetings with major shareholders during the year, senior management gave presentations to the Board also responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report and The Board ensures that the group has a clear organisational and research analysts.
The Chairman has advised major on their particular area of business operations and on one such Corporate Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare, structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including shareholders, in writing, of his availability along with the Senior occasion, a visit to the site of a significant brownfield project was being under no obligation to do so under Jersey Company law.
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Each Independent Director should there be issues which the shareholders arranged for the Board.
In addition, presentations were provided to business division operates and maintains its own business wish to discuss.
the Board in relation to the European Disclosure and Transparency Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial management system designed to ensure the application of sound Directive and the groups management of, and accounting for, statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view processes of control to all projects and business activities: such The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major long-term contracts.
Further, any Director may request the Secretary of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the systems encompass policies and procedures relating to all major shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers and financial PR to the Board to arrange any individual training or professional Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the areas of risk including matters relating to health and safety: security: consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings after development if he feels that this would be helpful to him in discharging Directors should: the environment: and contract execution.
The Board has approved a the publication of financial results.
Code of Business Conduct, which amongst other matters, includes Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently policies for the Company and its employees on health and safety: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent The principal method of communicating with the majority of A formal induction process exists and this is tailored to take account security: the environment: and areas of legal compliance.
The group Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless shareholders is via the Annual Report and financial statements of the individuals specific needs.
Two new Directors were appointed has a procedure in place to ensure that employees may raise ethical it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue and the Companys website which contains details of financial during the year, Amjad Bseisu and Rijnhard van Tets.
The induction concerns in confidence.
in business presentations to analysts and other information about the group.
programme provided to Amjad Bseisu concentrated on the legal and All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the Annual General regulatory environment in which the Company operates as he was Risk management Meeting.
All Directors were present at the 2007 Annual General The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records judged to possess extensive knowledge in relation to the groups Each division is required to produce a risk matrix which identifies the Meeting and all intend to be present at the 2008 Annual General that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial business activities and competitive environment, having served as key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
Details of the meeting position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial a senior member of the management team for several years prior to impact if they do occur and the actions being taken in order to are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders, statements comply with the Law.
They are also responsible for his appointment as a Director.
As a non-executive Director recruited manage and mitigate those risks.
The Board currently receives and which contains the text of resolutions to be proposed and safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking from outside the oil & gas industry, the Company put in place a regular formal updates from management both on the most material explanatory notes, where necessary.
Shareholders attending will reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and programme for Rijnhard van Tets, which was designed to help him of these divisional risks as well as any risks separately identified, be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, other irregularities.
familiarise himself with the Companys business.
As part of this which the management team judges to have the potential to affect in the categories for and against, together with the number of programme, Rijnhard van Tets visited the groups main offices where the whole group.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a poll, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of he had the opportunity to meet senior management and external results of which will be announced to The London Stock Exchange the corporate and financial information included on the Companys advisors.
In addition, Rijnhard van Tets was supplied with briefing The Board formed a Risk Committee in August, the purpose of and published on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and papers designed to assist him in understanding the groups legal which is to take primary responsibility for overseeing the groups dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation and regulatory framework including governance requirements, risk management systems: and reviewing any external disclosures in other jurisdictions.
particularly in relation to audit committees.
56 57 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Committee met four times during the year and considered the The Companys Articles of Association currently require its Audit Committee Report External audit following matters: shareholders to notify the Company in the event that a shareholder Membership of the Audit Committee during the year and to the date The Committee recommended to the Board that the external acquires an interest of 3% or more in the Companys share capital.
of this Report is as follows: auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be re-appointed following an Financial reporting Such shareholders as at 25 February 2008, are as follows: Rijnhard van Tets Chairman and member from 11 May 2007 assessment of the quality of service provided, including the The Committee reviewed the 2006 Annual Report and financial Kjell Almskog qualifications of the external auditors: the expertise and resources Number of Percentage statements and the 2007 Interim Report issued in September 2007 Michael Press made available to the group: auditors independence: and the ordinary of allotted before recommending their publication to the Board.
As part of this Bernard fide Combret Chairman and member until 11 May 2007 effectiveness of the audit process.
The decision was based on shares share capital overall review, the Committee considered the draft preliminary consideration of reports issued by external auditors and feedback Legal & General Investment announcements in respect of the Companys 2006 final and 2007 Both Rijnhard van Tets and Kjell Almskog have recent and relevant from the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
The Committee discussed with the Chief Financial financial experience.
Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited 17,124,524 4.96% Officer and external auditors the significant accounting policies, The Committee satisfied itself that the external auditors remain Alima Trust 14,255,157 4.13% estimates and judgements in preparing the Companys 2006 Report The Committees powers are conferred to it under the Companys independent having regard to the auditors procedures for and financial statements and 2007 Interim Report.
It has formal terms of reference, which have maintaining and monitoring independence: the auditors policy for Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited includes certain interests of senior been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are reviewed rotation of the lead partner and key audit personnel: and a policy, employees as well as other employees.
In addition to the above, Internal controls and risk management systems annually by the Committee and are available on the Companys which specifies areas of non-audit services that can be carried out Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan together with their respective The Committee is charged with reviewing the Companys internal website.
The Committees principal roles and responsibilities include by the external auditors and the financial thresholds above which families held significant interests, details of which are disclosed in the controls and risk management systems.
The Committee primarily the following: non-audit services require the approval of the Chairman of the Remuneration Report on page 65. discharges this responsibility through its engagement with the To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and Committee.
Any individual fees in relation to non-audit services groups internal and external auditors.
An annual internal audit plan, in excess of US$200,000 and or any excess of the aggregate fees announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing This Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2008. drawn up on a risk-based approach, is presented to the Committee for non-audit services above 50% of the annual audit fee require significant financial reporting judgements for its review and approval at the start of the financial year.
The Group approval from the Chairman of the Committee.
Within these To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Nominations Committee Report Head of Internal Audit provides the Committee with an interim parameters, where it is considered reasonable that the external control and risk management systems Membership of the Nominations Committee during the year and to progress report part way through the year, as a result of which the auditors undertake non-audit services for sound commercial and To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the date of this Report is as follows: audit plan may be revised, before returning to the Committee with his practical reasons without inhibiting objectivity, then engagement is review its material findings Rodney Chase Chairman final report for the year at the start of the subsequent year.
Such services might include independent certification, To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including Ayman Asfari same time as the final report for the previous year is presented, an reporting for Financial Services Authority FSA or United Kingdom agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring Kjell Almskog audit plan for the current year is proposed and so the ongoing Listing Authority UKLA purposes and tax advice.
The cost of their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that Michael Press process of internal control review is continued.
In 2007, the internal services provided by the external auditors during the year is detailed policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services Bernard fide Combret audit department completed a total of 36 assignments across a in note 4g to the financial statements.
Most of the cost of non-audit is appropriately applied broad cross-section of activities.
services was associated with tax and assurance services where The Committees powers are conferred to it under the Companys involvement by the external auditors was considered appropriate The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its Articles of Association.
It has formal terms of reference, which have In addition, the Committee also received presentations or reports and in the best commercial interests of the group.
terms of reference and may therefore seek any information it requires been drafted in accordance with the Combined Code, are reviewed during the year in relation to the groups tax risk management: from any employee and obtain, at the Companys expense, such annually by the Committee and are available on the Companys the groups insurances: the groups Code of Business Conduct: Attendance at the meetings during the year was as follows: professional advice as it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary to the and the groups whistle blowing policy known as the speaking the Committee has no executive function and its primary role is to Committee.
Minutes for all meetings are circulated to all Directors up policy by employees and its effectiveness.
In relation to the Number of meetings 4 review and challenge, rather than assume responsibility for any unless there is deemed to be a conflict of interest and supplemented speaking up policy, the Committee noted that a staff awareness matters within its remit.
Rijnhard van Tets Chairman 3 by a verbal report from the Committees Chairman at the next Board survey suggested that a very significant proportion of employees had Kjell Almskog 4 meeting.
The Committees principal roles and responsibilities include some awareness of the policy.
The group has recently appointed a Attendance at the Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Bernard fide Combret 2 the following: Head of Communications, who led a group-wide mail shot after the Chairman of the Committee.
However, the Chief Financial Officer, Michael Press 4 Consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new results of the survey had been received in order to start the process Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the appointments of Directors taking into account the overall size, of increasing staff awareness.
Two notifications under the policy external auditors generally attend some or all of the Committee 1 Rijnhard van Tets was appointed to the Committee on 11 May 2007.
Two meetings were held before and two meetings were held after his appointment.
He attended balance and composition of the Board were received and conclusively investigated during the year.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors three meetings during the year: one meeting as a guest prior to his appointment Consider succession planning There were no notifications in 2006. have the right to speak directly to the Chairman of the Committee at and the two meetings held after his appointment.
Make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment any time and have the opportunity to meet the Committee without 2 Bernard fide Combret stepped down from the Committee on 11 May 2007. of any Director following conclusion of his specified term in office management present at least once a year.
The Secretary to the Internal audit He attended the two Committee meetings held before he stepped down from the Committee.
Board acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee evaluated the performance of internal audit from the Meetings are held as deemed necessary by the Chairman and quality of reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit: feedback This Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2008. during the course of 2007, one meeting was held and all members Minutes for all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all from management and an assessment of work planned and attended.
The Committee considered its terms of reference: the Directors and are supplemented by a verbal report from the undertaken.
During the year, the Group Head of Internal Audit Rijnhard van Tets Boards composition, which it judged to be satisfactory for the time Committees Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any recruited an IT specialist and he intends to undertake further Committee Chairman being: and managements succession planning.
matters in respect of which action or improvement is required, and recruitment in 2008.
The Committee will continue to keep the making recommendations where appropriate.
resourcing of the department under review.
The department is The Committee met in early 2008 to consider Board composition, currently staffed by four individuals including the Group Head of succession planning and the proposed re-appointment of Rodney Internal Audit.
Chase, Ayman Asfari and Keith Roberts at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee recommended to the Board that all three Directors offering themselves for re-appointment should be proposed for re-appointment by the Companys shareholders having taken into account their individual performances, which were considered as part of the annual Board evaluation exercise.
This Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2008.
Rodney Chase Chairman 58 59 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Introduction purposes of the Remuneration Committee are set out in its terms The Board considered and approved a funding policy in relation to Good governance of reference and are to: This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in the Companys employee benefit trust, which holds shares to be The Board and the Committee consider that throughout 2007 and accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Recommend to the Board the broad policy in respect of senior used to satisfy awards under the Companys DBSP, Performance up to the date hereof the Company has complied with the provisions 2002 and approved by the Board.
The Directors are not required management remuneration Share Plan PSP and Restricted Share Plan RSP.
The Company of the Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration.
under Jersey law to prepare a Remuneration Report but in Ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate in order to reviews its contingent obligations under the above listed share accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, as encourage enhanced performance incentive schemes on a quarterly basis with a view to ensuring Remuneration policy and practice outlined in the Combined Code, have chosen to do so.
This Report Approve the design and set the targets for any performance related that the employee benefit trust should purchase under a loan Non-executive Directors sets out the remuneration policy and principles under which the pay scheme arrangement with the group and hold shares, sufficient to cover The Board, with the assistance of independent professional advice, Directors and senior managers are remunerated and details the Review the design of all share incentive plans before approval by between 80% to 100% of its maximum liability at any time under the determines the fees of the independent non-executive Directors.
remuneration and share interests of each Director for the year ended the Board and shareholders, to monitor the application of the rules three schemes.
The last such benchmarking exercise was conducted by Deloitte 31 December 2007.
As required by the Remuneration Report of such schemes and the overall aggregate amount of such awards & Touche LLP in 2006 and the opportunity was taken to include Regulations, shareholders will be invited to approve this Report at Set the remuneration of all executive Directors, members of senior Attendance at the meetings during the year was as follows: the Chairman of the Board as part of the review although the the Annual General Meeting.
The vote on the resolution will have management and the Chairman including annual cash bonus and Remuneration Committee rather than the Board consider his advisory status only, will be in respect of remuneration policy and share incentive payments Number of meetings 4 particular fee.
When deciding an appropriate level of fee for each overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual independent non-executive Director, the Board considers the Bernard fide Combret levels of remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration During 2007, the Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, attended responsibility and time commitment required of each individual, Chairman 4 Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer taking into account the number of meetings each attends, the time meetings at the invitation of the Chairman in order to provide advice Kjell Almskog 2 shareholders questions about the Directors remuneration.
required for reading Board and other papers, their chairmanship on setting remuneration for other executive Directors and members Michael Press 4 of Board Committees and the significant travel required of all of senior management.
He attended no part of a meeting at which 4 Rijnhard van Tets 2 The sections of this Report dealing with Directors emoluments and independent non-executive Directors by the Company.
his own remuneration was being discussed.
The Group Head of share interests have been audited pages 64 to 65 by the groups Legal and Commercial Affairs, Richard Milne, also attended 1 Bernard fide Combret was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 11 May 2007.
2 Kjell Almskog attended the two meetings held prior to the recomposition of the external auditors.
Executive Directors and members of senior management meetings, again at the invitation of the Chairman, to provide advice Committees membership on 11 May 2007.
The Committee aims to establish a level of remuneration, which in relation to the Companys share incentive schemes.
The Secretary 3 Michael Press served as Chairman of the Committee until 11 May 2007.
Information not subject to audit is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors and key to the Board acts as secretary to the Committee and therefore 4 Rijnhard van Tets was appointed to the Committee on 11 May 2007 and attended Composition of the Committee executives of the calibre required to achieve the groups objectives: attended all meetings.
The Committee appointed Norton Rose the two meetings held after his appointment.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year and and which furthermore, reflects the size and complexity of the and Deloitte & Touche LLP to provide independent advice on to the date of this Report is as follows: groups business together with an executives individual contribution remuneration matters during the year.
Norton Rose acts as general In addition, a further four ad hoc meetings were held to approve and geographical location.
Bernard fide Combret Member throughout year and Chairman legal advisors to the group.
In 2007, in addition to providing awards under the Companys RSP see page 62 for details of this from 11 May 2007 remuneration related advice, a separate division of Deloitte & Touche share incentive scheme.
LLP was engaged to provide tax and assurance work to the group Kjell Almskog Member until 11 May 2007 in relation to a specific project, which has now been completed.
Michael Press Member throughout year and Chairman until Minutes of the meetings of the Committee are circulated to all 11 May 2007 Directors unless any Director is the subject of debate by the Rijnhard van Tets Member from 11 May 2007 Committee, in which case the minutes will not be sent to him.
The Chairman supplements the formal circulation of the minutes In May, the Boards number of independent, non-executive Directors by a verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the Board increased from three to four Directors following the appointment of meeting following a Committee meeting.
The Board took the opportunity at this time to refresh the membership of the Committee.
Given their diverse Executive Directors remuneration packages currently include the following elements: Activities of the Remuneration Committee backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the current The Committee normally meets four times a year and reports Element Purpose Performance period Methodology in determining award Committee members provide a suitably balanced perspective on herewith its material findings.
In addition to its routine business, the executive remuneration matters.
None of the Directors who served Basic salary and cash allowances To attract and retain Not applicable Role and contribution market median or below Committee also undertook the following activities during the year during the year had or has any personal interest in the matters to be Non-cash benefits To attract and retain Not applicable Market standard for role and geographic location and in the period to the date of this Report in discharging its decided other than as a shareholder of the Company, any potential Annual cash bonus responsibilities: conflict of interest arising out of cross-Directorships or any day to Maximum grant level of 100% of basic To incentivise delivery of One year Award subject to achievement of financial day involvement in the management of the groups business activities.
Considered and recommended to the Board proposed amendments salary or 150% for outstanding performance goals for targets and personal objectives in relation to the rules of the Companys Deferred Bonus Share Plan performance any financial year Role of the Remuneration Committee DBSP prior to the Board recommending such amendments to Awards in respect of 2007 ranged from The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board, shareholders in Annual General Meeting 76% to 150% 2006: 100% to 150% and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its Instructed Deloitte & Touche LLP to undertake a benchmarking remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the Board, exercise in relation to executive Directors and senior management Share Incentive Scheme which were last reviewed in July 2007.
A copy of the terms of remuneration before considering the resultant report Performance Share Plan PSP reference is available on the Companys website.
The primary Reviewed the groups policy in respect of senior management Maximum grant level of 100% of basic Incentivises long-term value Three years 50% of awards are subject to total shareholder remuneration salary or 150% in exceptional creation and encourages return TSR ranking relative to an international Considered managements strategic approach to the retention and circumstances executive share ownership peer group motivation of personnel identified as key to the delivery of the Awards made in 2007 were 100% 50% of awards are subject to an achievement groups overall strategy including consideration of the continued of salary 2006: 70% to 73% of compound annual growth in Earnings Per appropriateness of the groups current share incentive schemes Share EPS 60 61 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Cash allowances Historically, the Committee has been guided by the general For 2007, as in 2006 the Committee set the maximum bonus The TSR index was composed of 17 and 18 companies for grants In addition to basic salary, UK resident executive Directors receive principles that: potential at 100% of basic annual salary for achievement of made in 2006 and 2007, respectively.
The Committee believes that a cash allowance in place of benefits including, but not limited to The overall maximum remuneration of executive Directors should corporate and personal targets but retained the ability to increase relative TSR remains the best measure of the Companys ultimate car allowances and pension contributions.
In 2007, Ayman Asfari be split broadly equally between the following three components: this to 150% of basic annual salary if outstanding performance were delivery of shareholder returns and that EPS is the internal financial received a cash allowance of 20,000 2006: 20,000 whilst the basic salary: annual cash bonus: and awards under the PSP to be achieved.
Cash bonus awards in respect of 2007 to executive measure that is most closely linked to value creation in an oil & gas other UK based executive Directors received 15,000 2006: The annual cash bonus and PSP awards do not exceed 100% Directors ranged from 76% to 150% of salary due to performances, services business.
None of the Directors is eligible to receive pension which ranged from very good to outstanding 2006: 100% 150%.
or in exceptional circumstances, 150% of basic salary contributions from the Company.
In particular, Maroun Semaan received a bonus of 150% of salary TSR is the percentage return in a given period to a purchaser of an 2006: 150%.
This level of award was considered appropriate in These principles have been applied in 2007. ordinary share in the Company arising from share price appreciation In addition to basic salary, Maroun Semaan, as a UAE resident order to recognise his outstanding contribution to the financial and re-investment of dividends.
The Companys TSR performance executive Director, is required by local statute to receive a cash performance of the group and E&C division during the course of the During the year, the Committee commissioned Deloitte & Touche over a three-year period, calculated in a common currency, is ranked sum called an end of service indemnity from his employer on the year and in addition the achievement of all his personal objectives.
LLP to undertake a benchmarking exercise in relation to the against the TSR of the comparator group as at the date of each termination of his employment within the UAE.
Accordingly, the remuneration of executive Directors and members of senior grant, and vesting is in line with the following scale: Company accrues an amount each year.
Actual cash bonuses for the year are disclosed in the table set management.
Following a review of Deloitte & Touche LLPs report, TSR relative to unweighted Percentage of TSR out on page 64 and taken in conjunction with awards to Directors the Committee decided that the most appropriate benchmarking index of comparator group element of award vesting The Company also pays a cash allowance in respect of housing and under the Companys PSP, reflect the Remuneration Committees group would be: Less than index 0% transport for Maroun Semaan.
In 2007, Maroun Semaan received a assessment of each Directors achievement of his objectives in A select group of international and UK oil & gas services Equal to index 30% cash allowance of $132,000 for the year 2006: $120,000.
2007 and his contribution to the groups performance in the year.
companies for the Group Chief Executive and operational Details of awards to Directors under the Companys PSP are outlined executives, to the extent that data in relation to such comparator More than index by up to 25% Straight-line vesting between Non-cash benefits on page 64 of this Report.
companies is publicly available 30% and 100% All executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind.
All UK The FTSE 350 for functional executives More than index by 25% or more 100% resident executive Directors currently receive private health Share incentive schemes 1 Vesting is subject to achievement of EPS growth over the period of at least Retail insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance.
In Performance Share Plan PSP The Committee has agreed that its remuneration policy going Price Index plus 3% over the three-year vesting period.
addition, Ayman Asfari receives the benefit of a personal assistant Under the PSP, executive Directors and a restricted number of forward, by comparison to the relevant benchmarking group, will 2 The companies from which the comparator index is composed are as follows: Abbot Group PLC: Aker Kvaerner ASA: AMEC PLC: Helix Energy Solutions who spends part of her time in the administration of his philanthropic other members of senior management may receive performance be that base salaries will be median or below but that the variable Group Inc formerly Cal Dive International Inc : Chicago Bridge & Iron Co NV: work.
Maroun Semaan, who is resident in the UAE, receives various related share awards on an annual basis.
Participants are granted element of remuneration will be structured so that individuals Entrepose Contracting: Expro International Group PLC: Halliburton Co: JGC benefits typical for expatriate senior executives such as private health contingent awards to receive ordinary shares in the Company which can achieve total remuneration that is upper quartile subject to Corp: Saipem SpA: Schlumberger Limited: SNC-Lavalin Group Inc: Technip SA: insurance, benefits in relation to his childrens education and return will in normal circumstances vest after three years subject to the achievement of challenging performance standards.
The Committee Wood Group John plc: Fluor Corporation: Foster Wheeler Limited: WorleyParsons Limited and for grants made in 2007 and after, Tecnicas flights to his permanent home.
continued employment of the participant and to the extent that believes that such a remuneration policy is the most effective way in Reunidas SA.
performance conditions have been satisfied.
Three years was which to ensure that the executive Directors and members of senior 3 It is assumed that 100 is notionally invested at the start of the performance Annual cash bonus payments selected as the performance period under the PSP, as it is management are incentivised to deliver the groups strategic goals period equally amongst all the companies making up the TSR index.
At the end The Committee considers whether or not to award each executive considered to be an appropriate long-term time horizon for both and thus deliver long-term shareholder value.
of the vesting period, the index will represent the value of what the initial notional investment of 100 would have returned over the period.
This will be representative Director an annual cash bonus for the previous year in January of performance measurement and retention.
of the average return made by the Companys competitors.
In its deliberations, the Committee considers two principal As the Committee further develops its remuneration policy, it may compared to the return by an equivalent notional investment of 100 in Petrofac elements in determining a Directors cash bonus: The initial market value of the shares over which any such award is need to revise its general principles in relation to the split between over the same period.
made to any participant in any financial year may currently not the three components making up senior management remuneration.
First, the extent to which the groups financial performance, and, as 4 The Committee is authorised under the rules of the PSP to make retrospective adjustment s to the comparator index for any year of award in the event that exceed 100% of basic annual salary or, in circumstances which the The Committee intends to review the matter during 2008. appropriate, the business division for which the individual Director one or more of the constituent companies are subject to any of the following: Committee deems to be exceptional, 150% of basic annual salary.
is primarily responsible, have achieved annually established fide-listing: merger: acquisition or other such event.
Basic salary, cash allowances and non-cash benefits budgets and targets The Committee believes that PSP performance conditions should Basic salary Second, to what extent the individual has met personal objectives, strike a balance between achieving alignment with ultimate Ordinarily, the Committee determines an executive Directors basic which are agreed at the start of each year in question and which shareholder returns and reward for delivery of strong underlying salary at the beginning of each year and any change is applied with are established with the aim of achieving the groups business effect from 1 January.
In 2007, the rate of increase for basic salary performance, the latter being more directly under the control of strategy.
Each executive Directors personal objectives include increases for executive Directors was between 4.8% and 14.3% senior management.
In addition, some executive Directors 2006: between 5.0% and 7.1%.
The Committee made its 2007 have additional targets in relation to succession planning: risk salary increases to bring basic salaries more in line with competitive Vesting of PSP grants made in 2006 and 2007 were made subject management: and the development and implementation of the practice.
However, following the increases, basic salaries remained to two performance measures: groups social, environmental and ethical programme.
In this way, at market median or below, in line with the Companys policy.
i T otal Shareholder Return TSR relative to an index against a the Remuneration Committee considers that it has in place an comparator group of UK and international companies for 50% incentive structure for members of senior management, which of the award: and promotes responsible behaviour ii Earnings Per Share EPS growth relative to predefined targets for 50% of the award.
62 63 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Restricted Share Plan RSP EPS is the earnings which excludes dividends, in pence, attributable Executive Directors service contracts Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on an to one ordinary share.
The Companys EPS performance over Each of the executive Directors has a 12 month rolling service contract with the Company and is contractually restricted to a termination ad hoc basis throughout the year.
The Committee intends that the a three-year period is calculated and vesting is in line with the payment equal to 12 months salary and benefits.
None of the executive Directors is currently subject to a contractual retirement date.
Details scheme is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards to following scale: of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the table below: Number of months notice individuals who join the group part way through the year, having EPS compound annual growth Percentage of EPS Name of executive director Date of service contract and date first appointed Last re-elected Next due for reelection Company Director left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The Committee over three-year period element of award vesting periodically monitors the level of awards.
Executive Directors are Ayman Asfari 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 2006 AGM 2008 AGM 12 12 15% or less 0% not eligible to participate in the scheme.
Amjad Bseisu 13 September 2005 11 May 2007 2007 AGM 2009 AGM 12 12 More than 15% but less than 20% Straight line vesting between Keith Roberts 13 September 2005 6 April 2002 2006 AGM 2008 AGM 12 12 0% and 30% The Petrofac approved Share Incentive Plan SIP Maroun Semaan 13 September 2005 11 January 2002 2006 AGM 2009 AGM 12 12 Under the SIP, all UK employees, including UK resident Directors, 20% 30% 1 Five Directors were elected or re-elected by shareholders at the Companys 2007 Annual General Meeting: two such Directors, including one executive Director, Amjad may invest up to 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if less, 10% More than 20% but less than 25% Straight-line vesting between Bseisu, have been drawn by lot for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The remaining three Directors last elected or re-elected at the 2007 Annual General of salary to purchase ordinary shares.
There is no holding period for 30% and 100% Meeting Bernard fide Combret, Michael Press and Rijnhard van Tets will therefore become eligible for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
2 Both Keith Roberts and Maroun Semaan were re-elected at the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, either Director 25% or more 100% could submit himself for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Keith Roberts was drawn by lot to offer himself for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting as a result of which Maroun Semaan will offer himself for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Dividends and voting rights in respect of shares awarded under As part of its remit, the Committee regularly reviews not only the the groups share incentive schemes overall suitability of the groups share incentive schemes but also any Executive Directors are entitled to accept up to one non-executive directorship outside and unconnected to the group provided prior Participants in the PSP, DBSP and RSP have no dividend or voting performance conditions attached to such schemes.
The Committee permission is sought from the Board.
Any fees earned from such an appointment are retained by the Director.
No executive Director currently rights in respect of their respective awards until such time as their will therefore undertake both a general review of the groups holds any such external directorships.
However, when the Company pays a dividend, the schemes in 2008 and also consider whether the PSP performance number of shares comprised in an award will be increased by the conditions, which have been applied since the introduction of the Non-executive Directors number of shares which could have been acquired with the amount scheme, remain appropriate.
Details of current individual non-executive Directors contracts for services are given in the table below.
These Directors are not part of any of dividend received had the participant been the owner of the award pension, bonus or share incentive scheme of the Company or group.
Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years and are shares.
The vesting of the extra shares will be subject to the same Other senior management, management and all-employee typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract and none is entitled to performance conditions as the original award shares.
schemes compensation on leaving the Board save that, if requested to resign, the Chairman and each non-executive Director is entitled to receive As part of its oversight role, the Committee has considered the prior notice or fees in lieu of notice as in the table below.
Participants in the SIP receive dividends in respect of their shares following three schemes.
The trustee invites participants prior to a Date of latest letter of appointment General meeting at Required notice from general meeting to indicate how he or she wishes the trustee to vote Name of Director and date first appointed which last re-elected Next due for re-election Company in months Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP in respect of his or her shares on any resolution s to be put to Rodney Chase 13 September 2005 21 June 2005 15 September 2005 2008 AGM 3 Under the DBSP, selected members of management are invited, or shareholders in general meeting.
Kjell Almskog 13 September 2005 23 March 2005 2007 AGM 2009 AGM 3 in some cases required, to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares.
Under the plan, the shares which are Bernard fide Combret 13 September 2005 19 November 2003 2007 AGM 2010 AGM 3 Performance graph acquired with a participants cash bonus are called Invested The Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR is defined as the Michael Press 13 September 2005 30 April 2002 2007 AGM 2010 AGM 3 Shares.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant Companys share price growth plus any dividends used to acquire Rijnhard van Tets 2 February 2007 11 May 2007 2007 AGM 2010 AGM 3 the participant an additional award over a number of shares being a further shares in Petrofac.
For shareholders information, the 1 Rodney Chases appointment as a Director was approved by shareholder resolution prior to the Companys admission to listing on The London Stock Exchange.
specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares and these Companys TSR performance since the Company was admitted to 2 Five Directors were elected or re-elected by shareholders at the Companys 2007 Annual General Meeting: two such Directors, including non-executive Director, awards are called Matching Shares.
To date, Matching Shares have listing on The London Stock Exchange on 7 October 2005 is shown Kjell Almskog, have been drawn by lot for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The remaining three Directors last elected or re-elected at the 2007 been awarded to participants on the basis of a 1:1 ratio, the sole Annual General Meeting Bernard fide Combret, Michael Press and Rijnhard van Tets will therefore become eligible for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
on the graph below compared with the performance achieved by the exceptions to this being two awards made to an executive Director FTSE 250 Index, which the Committee believes is the most relevant and senior executive, respectively in 2006: in these particular cases, During the year, with the exception of the Chairman, non-executive Directors were paid a basic annual fee of 42,000 for their role on the benchmark to allow a meaningful assessment of the Companys it was felt to be inappropriate to grant any Matching Shares.
Board and a further annual fee of 6,000 per chairmanship of a committee, if applicable.
The Board as a whole is responsible for deciding performance.
non-executive Directors fees unless such fees exceed 500,000 in aggregate, in which case shareholder approval in general meeting would Subject to a participants continued employment at the time of be sought.
250 vesting, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% 225 on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairmans fee is all inclusive and is currently 200 the first anniversary of grant, two-thirds on the second anniversary 105,000 per year, having last been considered by the Remuneration Committee in 2006.
175 of grant and three-thirds on the third anniversary of grant.
The 150 Remuneration Committee uses its discretion to determine whether or 125 not a participant should be subject to either three-year cliff or annual vesting or a mixture thereof but in doing so, takes managements 100 recommendations into consideration.
75 50 In 2007, the Remuneration Committee decided that neither executive 25 Directors nor the most senior members of management should 0 participate in the scheme as there are no performance conditions Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec 05 05 06 06 06 06 06 06 07 07 07 07 07 07 attached to such awards.
If executive Directors or members of the Petrofac groups most senior management are considered for DBSP FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Source: Datastream participation in future years, the Company undertakes not to make matching awards, unless such awards are subject to suitably stretching performance conditions and a deferral period of at least three years.
TSR rebased to 100 on listing date 64 65 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Award of shares under the DBSP Amount of each Directors emoluments in the relevant financial year Keith Roberts was granted 31,153 shares under the DBSP on 24 April 2006.
The award was made solely in respect of Invested Shares.
No The remuneration of each Director in respect of 2007 with 2006 comparison comprised: Matching Shares were granted.
Following the award of dividend shares in 2006 and 2007, the number of Invested Shares was 31,391 shares and 31,768 shares, respectively, on 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007.
The award will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject Salaries Cash 2007 2006 to Keith Roberts continued employment.
The market price at the date of grant was 353 pence.
and fees allowances Benefits Cash bonus total total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Sums paid to third parties in respect of executive Directors services Executive Directors No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive Directors services 2006: nil.
Ayman Asfari 722 40 76 902 1,740 1,359 3 Amjad Bseisu 272 19 205 496 n a Directors beneficial shareholdings at 31 December 2007 Keith Roberts 441 30 1 481 953 805 Directors personal shareholdings, which include family interests and which are not related to their remuneration are as follows: Maroun Semaan 330 160 31 495 1,016 915 Number of Non-executive Directors Number of shares as at Rodney Chase 209 209 190 shares as at 31 December 2006 31 December 2007 or date of appointment if later Kjell Almskog 91 91 69 Executive Directors Bernard fide Combret 96 96 78 Ayman Asfari 69,282,114 69,282,114 Michael Press 88 88 78 Keith Roberts 2,120,000 3,120,000 3 Rijnhard van Tets 61 61 n a Maroun Semaan 33,068,799 34,068,799 2,310 249 108 2,083 4,750 3,494 Non-executive Directors 1 Payment in lieu of pension allowance and other benefits for UK resident Directors and end of service indemnity and various allowances for the UAE resident Director.
Rodney Chase 1,000,000 1,000,000 None of the Directors is eligible to receive pension contributions from the Company.
Kjell Almskog 400,000 400,000 2 Benefits vary depending upon the Director.
All executive Directors receive medical insurance.
In addition, Ayman Asfari receives the benefit of a personal assistant who spends part of her time in the administration of his philanthropic work: and Maroun Semaan receives, inter alia, benefits in relation to his childrens education and return Bernard fide Combret 600,000 600,000 flights to his permanent home.
4 UK based Directors are paid in Sterling.
Amounts have been translated to US dollars based on the prevailing rate at the date of payment or award with the exception of Rijnhard van Tets 100,000 100,000 the bonus amounts, which have been translated using the average exchange rate for the year.
The Companys share price at the end of the financial year was 550 pence and the market price during the year was in the range 370 pence Awards of shares under the PSP to 565 pence.
Awards of shares during the year to executive Directors under the PSP are disclosed in the table below: Number Shares Dividend Number Changes since the year end of shares at granted in year shares of shares at There have been no changes since the year end to the information disclosed in this Report.
Director and % of basic salary 31 December under annual granted in 31 December Date from which Market price, , date of grant in year of grant 2006 award cycle the year 2007 shares vest on date of grant Annual General Meeting approval Ayman Asfari The Remuneration Report will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday, 16 May 2008.
The awards disclosed in the Report and Accounts for 2006 did not reflect this dividend reinvestment and the position as at the start of the year is re-stated for awards made under the PSP on 24 April 2006.
2 The awards which are disclosed are the maximum number, which can vest under the performance conditions attached to awards made under the PSP.
3 The performance conditions under which these awards would vest in full are explained on pages 61 and 62.
4 No shares awarded to executive Directors under the PSP have either lapsed or vested during the year.
66 67 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Consolidated income statement Independent auditors Consolidated income report statement to the shareholders of Petrofac Limited For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and We have audited the group financial statements of Petrofac Limited Notes US$000 US$000 consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial the Company and its subsidiaries together the group for the Revenue 4a 2,440,251 1,863,906 statements.
The other information comprises the Chairmans year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated Statement, the Interview with the Group Chief Executive, the income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated Cost of sales 4b 2,029,772 1,593,588 Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in Gross profit 410,479 270,318 Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
These group financial statements Selling, general and administration expenses 4e 165,308 104,513 Directors Remuneration Report of the Company, the Oil & Gas have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Other income 4c 3,951 4,870 Reserves, the Directors Information, Senior Management Information We have also audited the information in the section of the Directors Other expenses 4d 621 1,133 and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our Remuneration Report of the Company that is described as having report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material been audited.
Profit from operations before tax and finance income costs 248,501 169,542 inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities Finance costs 5 8,527 7,168 do not extend to any other information.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Finance income 5 18,259 9,298 in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 Profit before tax 258,233 171,672 Basis of audit opinion and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has been Income tax expense UK 7,376 13,886 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Overseas 62,141 37,454 An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 6 69,517 51,340 to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements and do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Profit for the year 188,716 120,332 Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Company that work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
has been described as audited.
It also includes an assessment of Attributable to: the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in Petrofac Limited shareholders 188,716 120,332 Respective responsibility of Directors and auditors the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, the group financial statements in accordance with applicable Jersey consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Earnings per share US cents 7 law as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Basic 54.63 34.98 presented in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Directors are We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Diluted 54.14 34.87 also responsible for the preparation of the Directors Remuneration information and explanations which we considered necessary in Report, which they have chosen to prepare.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The attached notes 1 to 32 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in Directors Remuneration Report of the Company to be audited are accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
The Company irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the has also instructed us to audit the section of the Directors overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group Remuneration Report of the Company that has been described financial statements and the section of the Directors Remuneration as audited.
Report of the Company that has been described as audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial In our opinion: statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you if, in our accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit we require for our audit.
We report to you our opinion as to whether for the year then ended the section of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Company the group financial statements have been properly prepared in that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
the section of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Company to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects basis of preparation as described therein the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Ernst & Young LLP control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the London effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures 7 March 2008 or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
68 69 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Consolidated cash flow and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 statement Consolidated balance Consolidated cash flow sheet statement At 31 December 2007 For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 2007 2006 Notes US$000 US$000 Notes US$000 US$000 Assets Operating activities Non-current assets Profit before tax 258,233 171,672 Property, plant and equipment 9 256,237 143,176 Goodwill 11 71,743 56,732 Adjustments for: Intangible assets 12 9,010 17,959 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 52,758 28,807 Available-for-sale financial assets 14 1,586 1,726 Share-based payments 4f 5,412 1,281 Derivative financial instruments 15 1,775 1,925 Difference between other long-term employment benefits paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 5,852 3,082 Other financial assets 15 23 22 Net finance income 9,732 2,130 Deferred income tax assets 6c 11,472 2,902 Gain on disposal of investments 4c 1,671 351,846 224,442 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4b, 4c 8,834 11,681 Current assets Inventories 16 2,256 1,943 Gain on disposal of held for sale assets 4c 243 Work in progress 17 270,181 367,869 Other non-cash items, net 1,756 1,203 Trade and other receivables 18 509,025 330,515 Operating profit before working capital changes 305,202 190,563 Due from related parties 30 3,147 7,725 Trade and other receivables 171,360 2,355 Derivative financial instruments 15 27,298 7,483 Work in progress 97,688 132,822 Other financial assets 15 2,702 2,650 Due from related parties 4,578 20,677 Cash and short-term deposits 19 581,552 457,848 Inventories 313 787 1,396,161 1,176,033 Current financial assets 395 983 Asset classified as held for sale 1,372 Trade and other payables 64,044 129,896 Total assets 1,748,007 1,401,847 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 83,115 55,214 Accrued contract expenses 12,455 68,533 Equity and liabilities Due to related parties 562 1,153 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 370,666 328,749 Share capital 20 8,636 8,629 Other non-current items, net 133 139 Share premium 68,203 66,210 Cash generated from operations 370,799 328,610 Capital redemption reserve 10,881 10,881 Interest paid 7,004 7,848 Treasury shares 21 29,842 8,144 Income taxes paid, net 32,417 19,087 Other reserves 23 50,467 19,611 Net cash flows from operating activities 331,378 301,675 Retained earnings 377,450 227,508 485,795 324,695 Investing activities Minority interests 209 209 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 117,157 58,332 Total equity 486,004 324,904 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 4,902 3,865 Payment of deferred consideration on acquisition 10 64 Non-current liabilities Purchase of intangible oil & gas assets 12 48,604 6,187 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 81,640 90,705 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 501 Provisions 25 19,046 12,498 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 12,166 22,823 Other financial liabilities 26 13,870 7,373 Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2,250 Deferred income tax liabilities 6c 34,137 25,754 Net foreign exchange differences 829 1,366 148,693 136,330 Interest received 18,562 7,929 Current liabilities Net cash flows used in investing activities 139,170 34,517 Trade and other payables 27 408,017 346,706 Due to related parties 30 744 182 Financing activities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 28,455 26,475 Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings 766 Other financial liabilities 26 864 172 Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2,767 10,361 Income tax payable 47,577 10,085 Shareholders loan note transactions, net 216 198 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 17 208,105 124,990 Treasury shares purchased 21 21,698 8,127 Accrued contract expenses 28 419,548 432,003 Equity dividends paid 39,479 15,069 1,113,310 940,613 Net cash flows used in financing activities 63,728 32,593 Total liabilities 1,262,003 1,076,943 Total equity and liabilities 1,748,007 1,401,847 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 128,480 234,565 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 437,406 202,841 The financial statements on pages 67 to 107 were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19 565,886 437,406 Keith Roberts Chief Financial Officer.
The attached notes 1 to 32 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
