We achieve this through three key attributes: Operationalreview Passionate about our pubs:continually enhancing the quality Overview of our customers environment within each pub The financial year ended 18 August 2007 has been one of significant change and business improvement for Punch Taverns.
Passionate about our people:attracting the best people to run We have delivered substantial improvements in quality and our pubs and constantly striving to deliver high standards of profitability with growth in EBITDA per pub of 11% and 15% customer experience in the leased and managed estates respectively, reflecting the Passionate about service:delivering industry-leading training and largest and one of the best quality pub estates in the country.
 Delivering this position has required unprecedented levels of  activity.
The corporate strategy behind the acquisition of the We have continued to make significant investment in developing Spirit Group has been successfully executed.
Of the 1,830 directly the quality of our estate.
managed pubs acquired, 400 were sold, 637 converted from Over the last financial year we have completed over 1,500 managed to leased including 74 last year and 563 in the current year, with the remaining 793 pubs retained as managed.
In individual pub investment schemes across the leased and managed addition, we acquired 178 pubs including 82 Mill House Inns, estates at a total cost of 202 million.
These schemes are designed disposed of 986 non-core smaller pubs and completed over to improve the quality of experience and environment enjoyed by 1,500 individual pub investment schemes, investing 202 million, our customers.
Much of this activity has also enabled our pubs to to improve the quality of experience offered to our customers.
ensure that appropriate solutions were determined on a site by site All this activity has once again enhanced the quality of our estate basis ahead of the smoking ban, which was introduced in England leaving us with some 7,561 leased pubs and 887 managed pubs July and Wales April earlier this year.
We do not overtly brand our pubs, our objective being to establish Our strategy remains to assist and support our retailers and pub a true local in each of our sites.
Our focus on maximising the value managers by maximising the trading opportunity for them and of each site allows us to determine the most effective approach to their pubs.
To further improve the service given to our pubs, our operating each pub.
field and central support teams have been completely refocused Smaller, lower turnover pubs, which lend themselves to a more over recent months.
Furthermore, we have successfully entrepreneurial management style, are independently operated renegotiated contracts with most of our major suppliers onto within our leased delivery model.
Larger, higher turnover pubs, more beneficial terms to reflect our high quality estate.
typically taking on average 16,000 per week, lend themselves The reorganisation and integration of field and central support to the managed model.
teams has already resulted in significant cost reductions with  in year managed overhead savings in excess of 14 million.
Whether a pub is leased or managed, we believe that attracting the Further managed overhead savings are anticipated for 2008. best people to run our pubs is pivotal in determining the delivery of Against this backdrop of intense operational activity, our business a high level of service to our customers.
has continued to perform well and all of our key financial Within the leased estate, we have received enquiries from over measures have improved, as highlighted on page 1.
Across the year, like for like profits within our leased business were up by 6,600 applicants in the year and have let a record 1,800 pubs 2.7%, and like for like sales within our core managed estate were onto substantive agreements, with the transfer to lease process up by 3.5%.
This level of performance was all the more pleasing attracting some particularly high calibre retailers to Punch.
as it was achieved despite a difficult final quarter where We continue to develop our partnerships with our retailers, unprecedented poor weather and flooding restricted the trading with over 4,000 retailers attending our award-winning training for many of our pubs.
Demonstrating our commitment to Revenue was 1,705 million, representing an increase of 10% on sharing the success of our business with our retailers, average the previous year.
On a pre-exceptional basis, EBITDA was 664 retailer profitability has improved in line with the improved quality million, up 9%, profit before tax increased 13% to 282 million of the leased estate, up by 9%, to an average of c. 38,000 per and similarly basic earnings per share rose by 13% to 84.4p.
Our approach has seen other tangible benefits in terms of lower overdue debt levels, and rental concession levels remain In recognition of these results, the Board is recommending a final unchanged at c. 1% of rent roll.
dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share, taking the full year dividend to 15.3p, an increase of 14% on last year.
The final dividend will Within the managed estate, we launched an in-house training be payable on 23 January 2008 to shareholders on the register academy for managers and every pub manager has completed on 4 January 2008. an annual personal development programme.
We constantly measure our customer service delivery through independent The successful completion of such a demanding level of activity mystery customer visits.
Across the year, service scores have together with the delivery of an improved business performance improved by 5% and food quality measures have improved is testament to the hard work and commitment of everyone by 10%, all due to the efforts of our colleagues.
We would particularly like to congratulate and thank our pub retailers and managers and all  of our staff and colleagues for their support during the year.
We continually strive to improve the quality of service to our Operatingreview customers and believe a key strength of our operating approach Our operating strategy continues to focus upon delivering a high is the delivery of industry-leading service and support to each of quality pub experience to each of our customers.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 7  Passionate about our pubs CONTINUALLY ENHANCING THE QUALITY OF OUR CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT WITHIN EACH PUB AnitaMoores, , London Whilst the leased and managed estates are operated separately, which forms good security for the use of debt finance to efficiently fund our business.
With the improved quality and size of our pub our support teams ensure that best practice, key learnings and estate, we have been able to further improve the efficiency of our synergy benefits are shared across the Group.
In July, we successfully refinanced 825 million of During the year, our field and central support teams have been debt at an average interest rate of 6.4%, ahead of the tightening completely reorganised to improve the level of service given to debt market, which became apparent in August.
The next challenge will be to complete the Of the 1.4 billion debt taken out to fund the Spirit and Mill House successful integration of central support functions, such as IT, Inns acquisitions, all but 43 million had been repaid at the year to achieve further efficiencies and cost savings.
end date, the remainder having been fully repaid since.
Consolidation of buying functions across the two operations has Year end net debt fell to 4.9 billion 2006: 5.1 billion also allowed us to renegotiate virtually all of our major supplier representing a multiple of 7.4x 2006: 8.3x our reported Group contracts to reflect our transformed estate whilst delivering EBITDA.
The debt amortises over terms extending to 28 years and improved service levels and product offerings to our customers.
is all effectively at fixed rates of interest.
Interest cover maintained Finally, during the year we acquired a 50% stake in Matthew at 2.0x in the year.
Clark, the UKs leading independent drinks wholesaler.
Working A net exceptional credit of 54 million was recorded in the year.
with our partner, Constellation, we believe we can greatly enhance One-off expenditure on the completion of the integration and the wine offer to our pubs, delivering industry leading product transfer programme amounted to 42 million, offset by a reduction quality and choice.
in property liabilities in the acquired Spirit business of 22 million.
Costs of terminating financing arrangements were 11 million Financialupdate whilst the mark to market of certain interest rate swaps resulted in We continue to see good opportunities for further investment a credit of 54 million.
The tax effect of these items together with to improve the quality of our pubs either through acquisition or the release of various tax provisions gave rise to an exceptional tax investment in the existing estate.
During the year, cash generated credit of 31 million.
from the management of our finances has funded further site acquisitions including Mill House Inns and the Matthew Clark The effective tax charge, before exceptional items, was 20% 2006: joint venture to a value of 139 million net of acquired debt 22% and included the benefit of ongoing indexation allowance and investment in the estate of 202 million.
Tax paid in the year was 19 million, an effective rate of 7%.
As part of our ongoing assessment of the quality of our estate, 986 pubs which we considered to have less sustainable prospects  were disposed of during the year.
The disposal raised proceeds of We will issue our first Interim Management Statement on 16 405 million, which was used to pay down bank debt.
January 2008, to coincide with our Annual General Meeting.
Our debt strategy continues to leverage the improved quality of our It should also be noted that financial year 2008 will be a 53 pub estate.
94% of our estate is either freehold or long leasehold, week year.
Many ofhardwork, theBlueBallfinally   lossesandmovedon, butPunch   ,    .
Atthesame inJuly2007, wehaveseenadramatic  impactonthebusiness, withbarrelage    onlastyear.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 9  Finally, we announced on 8 November 2007 the appointment of Strategy a new Board Director.
Mark Pain joins the Board as an independent Our overriding objective is to continue to maximise the long-term Non-executive Director.
Mark is currently Chief Financial Officer shareholder value of the Group.
Our strategy to date of investment of Barratt Developments plc and was previously Group Finance and acquisition has delivered excellent returns for shareholders.
Director of Abbey National Group plc.
We have always believed that the property component of our business is a highly valuable constituent of the model.
Whilst we  are constantly seeking to maximise the use and the value of the Since the year end and to the date of this report, the managed real estate, we will continue to evaluate other ways including REITs estate has traded broadly in line with last years sales levels, with of extracting the best value from our assets and maximising an increased proportion of the sales mix coming from food.
the leased estate the growth trends seen in the second half of last year have continued into the current financial year.
Our current business structure and the use of long-term amortising investment grade debt has continued to demonstrate its robustness Whilst the sector is experiencing a degree of uncertainty and is during a period when financial markets have tightened.
not without its short-term challenges, we remain confident about the long-term future prospects for our business.
Managementchanges Punch continues to ensure that we have a management team of Punch benefits from an extremely high quality pub estate and the highest calibre to match the aspirations for the success of the the Group has never been in better shape to face any future business.
During the year there have been a number of changes challenges.
Over the last 18 months the quality of our estate has to the management team.
been significantly transformed, our acquisitions have been fully integrated and synergies delivered, and there is clear evidence that In January, Phil Cox stepped down as Chairman of the Group.
Phil the financial health of our retailers remains robust.
We continue was involved with Punch prior to flotation in 2002 and has been a to see good opportunities to grow the business and have an major contributor to the success of the business.
He was succeeded excellent platform in place from which we can further develop by Peter Cawdron who has been on the Board since 2003 and and progress.
brings a wealth of experience as a Director of GCap Media plc, Compass Group plc, ProStrakan plc, Capita Group plc and Johnston Press plc.
In April, Deborah Kemp took over from Adrian Fawcett as Managing Director of the leased business and on 8 November 2007 we announced her appointment to the Board.
Deborah has been with the Group since 1998 and has extensive experience of both the property and operations side of the business.
In September, we announced the retirement of Robert McDonald as Finance Director.
Robert, with 25 years of experience in the sector, provided the Group with a huge amount of support during the early years as a public company.
He has been replaced by Phil Dutton, former Chief Financial Officer of Matalan plc, who joined the Board as a Non-executive Director in January 2007.
SpiritAcademy We have refreshed our whole  approach to Pub Manager  training, developing completely  new courses which are delivered  through our refurbished Learning Spiritestate.
and Development Academy  in Northampton.
Pub Managers graduating from the Academy.
Tofurtherenhancethe     , which OperationsManagers, themajority    ourpoolofBRMs.
Michael Bridger accepting this years BRM of the Year Award.
com Passionate about our people ATTRACTING THE BEST PEOPLE TO RUN OUR PUBS AND CONSTANTLY STRIVING TO DELIVER HIGH STANDARDS OF CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Melanie, oneofourTeamPlayers, pourstheperfectpint  Passionate about service DELIVERING INDUSTRYLEADING TRAINING AND SUPPORT TO OUR PUBS TO ENSURE WE PROVIDE THE BEST CUSTOMER SERVICE KiernanLynch, OperationsManager, London
