OPERATIONS REVIEW LATIN AMERICA South America into the SABMiller group has Azzurro brand was launched in February Latin Latin America America been successfully completed during the year.
2007 following the launch of our regional Financial summary 2007 2006 brand, Barena, in October 2006 and 1 In Colombia, lager volumes for the year Group revenue US$m 4,392 2,165 Cusquea was relaunched in new packaging 2 grew by 11% on a pro forma basis driven EBITA US$m 915 436 during March 2007.
Pack mix has improved by solid economic growth, successful brand EBITA margin % 20.9 20.1 in favour of returnable packaging, influenced and packaging renovations, increased Sales volumes hl 000 : by the introduction of a deposit system in marketing investment and improved retail Lager 34,948 16,163 November 2006, while our route to market price discipline, which drove lower retail Carbonated soft drinks will benefit from the organisational change prices.
Brand renovations during the second CSDs 9,058 7,335 focusing on channel marketing based on half of the year included the local premium Other beverages 10,416 6,049 consumption occasions.
Corporate brand Club Colombia and Pilsen in the restructuring continued, including the 1 Including share of associates revenue mainstream segment, while in the premium purchase of further minority shareholdings, 2 In 2007 before exceptional items of US$64 million 2006: segment our Peroni Nastro Azzurro brand US$11 million being integration and restructuring costs with SABMillers effective interest in Backus was successfully launched.
Trade marketing & Johnston increasing to 93.3%.
capabilities have been upgraded and include Key focus areas the appointment of brand developers to In Ecuador, pro forma lager volume growth Develop a brand led and consumer focus on quality of point of sale and of over 12% was driven by the flagship facing organisation through disciplined enhancement of drinking occasions, while mainstream brand Pilsener, capitalising on execution of brand marketing, order taking has been supplemented with favourable economic conditions and buoyant renovation of existing mainstream a telesales operation.
Improvements have consumer demand, underpinned by the brands and development of the also been made in the distribution system, brands mid-year packaging upgrade.
Market notably the introduction of a deposit system share gains in the fourth quarter confirmed premium segment for returnable containers in October 2006, the strength of this brand as the leading Win at the point of sale by investing while national pricing was introduced brand in Ecuador.
Total beer market share in enhanced drinking environments, from December 2006.
Strong growth has increased by nearly one percentage point implementing segmented channel necessitated investment in production to 95.3% at the end of March 2007.
The marketing and improved distribution capacity and a new 3.5 million hectolitre favourable volume performance together channels brewery in western Colombia is scheduled to with a 7% price increase earlier in the year Reduce operating costs and come on stream in October 2007.
improve capabilities restructuring proceeded during the year, In Panama, we increased our share of the Increase performance by continuous including an offer to minority shareholders beer market by 2.5% on a year-on-year improvement through performance which resulted in an increase in SABMillers basis to reach 84%, with the market growing effective interest in Bavaria S. A. to 98.5%.
management, strategic people by an estimated 4%, fuelled by strong GDP The sale of Productura fide Jugos S. A. resourcing and skills development growth.
Our mainstream brands Atlas and our fruit juice and fruit pulp manufacturer, Ensure effective integration of Balboa have performed well, contributing received the necessary regulatory approvals, Central and South America into to total pro forma volume growth of 7%, and was completed in May 2007. the one Latin America region despite a significant price increase introduced A good performance was reported by our in July 2006.
The relaunch of SABMillers Peru operations with pro forma lager volume international premium brand, Miller Genuine growth of 16% for the year, which was Draft, in October 2006 has strengthened our EBITA for the region was US$915 million.
assisted by strong GDP growth of 8%, performance in the premium segment.
In the Organic constant currency growth of as well as the impact of competitive pricing non-beer segment, the unit performed well US$117 million represents growth of 27% in the earlier part of the year.
Our flagship ahead of the prior year with sales volumes on the prior year.
The results in Latin mainstream brand, Cristal, was relaunched increasing by 11% on a pro forma basis, America reflect robust market performances with a new and innovative packaging design mainly driven by CSDs.
and successful business initiatives in each and clear positioning as the beer of the country underpinned by strong economic In Honduras, lager sales volumes grew by Peruvians, resulting in annual growth of 27% growth in the region.
In South America, the 3%, while CSDs reported growth of 9%.
and a significant improvement in market strong momentum reported at the half year The volume growth of our Barena brand in share.
This, together with further investment continued into the second half with pro the lager premium segment has improved in marketing, brand renovations and new forma lager volumes increasing by 12% the mix, and together with the full-year effect brand launches in the second half of the for the year, while in Central America both of price increases in February 2006, has year, particularly in the premium category, beer and CSDs showed commendable enhanced profitability.
Innovation continued resulted in the company increasing its performances, with growth of 8% and 6% with Port Royal Gold Grand Reserve market share year on year to 92%.
The integration of operations in launched in a 12oz aluminium bottle at premium segment, our Peroni Nastro SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Operations review For subsidiary company results, view 24 www.
com en gb Investors Subsidiary company results
