SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 12 OPERATIONAL REVIEW An excellent order book of 455 million and a very high level of future contract prospects.
Tom Haughey TOM HAUGHEY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 13 WHITE CITY, LONDON Situated off Wood Lane, Shepherds Bush and close to the BBC headquarters, this massive centre will be the largest retail development in Europe.
It will house an atrium for live events, 15 restaurants, parking for 2,500 vehicles, 265 shops, a cinema and other leisure facilities.
In excess of 25,000 tonnes of fabricated steel are utilised in this project, 5,000 tonnes of which are Fabsec plated beams with bespoke service openings.
Severfield-Reeve Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 14 Operational Review The Company continued to make very good progress through During the course of 2007, the Company prepared for and 2007, producing records in output, turnover and profitability, and obtained a Gold Award via the British Construction Steel established the strongest forward order book in its history.
This is a milestone achievement Client satisfaction is very high as the focus continues to be on and is just the initial step in the Groups ambition to generate an delivery of value and on-time project execution for all contracts, efficient sustainable business model.
In the same time frame BS EN large and small.
ISO 14001 Environmental and OHSAS 18001 Safety accreditations were achieved.
In the closing quarter of 2007 the Group achieved a significant strategic objective with the acquisition of Fisher Engineering Further site development for improved logistics and enhanced Limited.
The Company has settled into the Group exceedingly well.
product output were implemented through 2007, ensuring that the Benefits to the Group include enhanced flexibility, better service Company strengthens its position as the leading production facility offerings and the greater collective optimisation of our new scale in Europe.
This acquisition consolidates the Groups leading position, in terms of service and client preference throughout the Watson Steel Structures UK and Ireland.
The Company again continues to express its versatility and engineering expertise through its participation in many high profile The companies within the Group, while autonomous, are solidly projects, including: co-operating to provide best in industry programmes, service and value to clients and their projects.
The on-time in budget completion of Terminal 5, Heathrow Terminal extension at Stansted for BAA SeverfieldReeve Structures Hackney Academy, London Many notable projects were undertaken by the Company, The Darwin Centre at the Natural History Museum, London including: Waste to Energy plant, Colnebrook Completion of the Westfield Centre shopping centre, London Continuing specialist development of oil pipeline carrying racks New projects awarded in 2008 include: on Sakhalin Island, Russian Federation New Museum of Transport, Glasgow First ever inner city Ikea store on Queen Victoria Road, Coventry Terminal 2 Dublin Airport Extension to the Shires shopping centre in Leicester Extensions to Terminals 3 and 4 at Heathrow Airport Retail, leisure and residential centre at Eagles Meadow, The exclusive residential development at Number 1 Hyde Park, Wrexham London Concert hall, arts venue and office development with unique Cannon Place development, London rippling glass facade at Kings Place, London Retail development at the Broadmead shopping complex In 2007, the operations at Watson Steel were enhanced with the in Bristol commission of processing equipment and the improvement of site infrastructure.
Office development using the innovative Bi-Steel Core at One Basinghall Avenue, London The Company was also successfully accredited with BS EN ISO New 1,200 bed hospital development at Queen Elizabeth 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Safety awards, Medical Centre, Edgbaston, Birmingham demonstrating its ongoing commitment to quality, safety and sustainability.
Mixed use retail and residential development at Livingston, near Edinburgh Ropemaker multi-storey office block, London Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 15 VICTORIA SQUARE SHOPPING CENTRE, BELFAST Covering a total site area of 14 acres, the Victoria Square Shopping Centre, anchored by the largest House of Fraser store in the UK, includes an 8 screen cinema, 90 shop units, 17 restaurants, residential and leisure space as well as a 1,000 space underground car park.
The focal point is a glass dome, which stands 45 metres in height and 35 metres in diameter, supported by a steel truss structure.
The total project consists of 5,300 tonnes of fabricated steelwork.
Fisher Engineering Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 16 Operational Review continued Atlas Ward Structures Fisher Engineering In 2007 Atlas Ward derived productivity benefits from the Fisher Engineering joined the Group in October 2007.
The significant investments made in 2006. integration into SeverfieldRowen has gone exceedingly well.
Investment during 2007 is further strengthening the Companys An upgrade investment of some 2.5 million was completed in position in the marketplace and makes it more flexible to compete 2007, prior to its acquisition, and is now providing the strategic across a range of construction sectors.
Projects engaged during the year include: The projects completed or started by Fisher Engineering in 2007, include: New distribution centre for Tesco in Livingston, Scotland Victoria Shopping Centre in Belfast Project Storm, a new distribution centre for major supermarket chain ASDA at Redhouse Interchange, Doncaster Irelands very first Ikea Store in Belfast New distribution centre for Tesco in Goole Centrecor Pharmaceutical at Cashall, Ireland New distribution hub for Sainsburys in Pineham Dundrum Town Centre in Dublin New Sainsburys store and adjacent non-food retail units on Quinn Group Radiator Factory at Newport Westfield Road, Edinburgh National Conference Centre in Dublin Two new teaching blocks at Anniesland College in Glasgow The Point Shopping Centre in Dublin ProLogis Park, Wellingbrough: the third phase of a distribution MET University in Leeds Feature Building development totalling in excess of 4,000 tonnes of structural Commercial office block in Threadneedle Street, London steelwork BBC Now in Cardiff Lymedale Cross, a new speculative development for Helioslough in Newcastle-under-Lyme During 2007, Fisher Engineering achieved Health and Safety Management accreditation to ISO 18001.
New distribution centre for Tesco in Donabate, Dublin New factory and offices for JCB at Uttoxeter Cabot Park Plots 9 and 10, a new cross docking distribution facility based in Bristol A new manufacturing facility for Goodmans in Avonmouth Atlas Ward is heavily involved in the development of new Sustainability strategies and initiatives for itself and other Group companies.
Atlas Ward attained OHSAS 18001 Safety and BS EN 14001:2004 Environment accreditations in 2007.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 17 40 HOLBORN VIADUCT, LONDON This high profile commercial office is located in central London, providing a gateway to the City and West End and offers approximately 16,600 sqm of office and retail space across eight floors.
The project consists of 1,770 tonnes of fabricated steelwork, including 600 tonnes of Fabsec bespoke beams.
450 tonnes of the steelwork were coated with intumescent fire protection paint.
Rowen Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 18 Operational Review continued Rowen Structures Steelcraft Erection Services Rowen Structures ceased the physical production of steelwork in the The Groups performance in relation to project execution and summer of 2007.
It is now carried out at the other Company sites.
customer satisfaction was again greatly influenced by the high level of professionalism and dedication provided by Steelcraft Rowen Structures continues to contract business on behalf of the Erection Services.
Group with its long-standing clients, providing its wholly retained project management skills and Group services to many projects, Steelcraft continues to lead the field in terms of innovation and is including: presently first user of a new bespoke steel erector platform, developed as the optimum current solution for the safer erection Westfield Shopping Centre in Derby of steelwork.
12 storey office and retail unit at No 3 Piccadilly, Manchester for Carillion Construction Ltd SeverfieldReeve Projects Premium office development at 40 Holborn Viaduct for Balfour The Company continues to provide first-class services to its clients Beatty Construction Ltd and other Group companies in the full development of small to New projects commenced in the period include: medium scale projects.
Prestigious new headquarters for Audi UK Ltd in London Conclusion Premium office development the LEX Building in Queen Street, London 2007 was a further milestone in the Companys development, both financially and strategically.
The acquisition of Fisher Engineering 19 storey office development at 30 Crown Place, London has consolidated the Groups leading position in the UK and Regents Place office development in London Ireland and our continued focus on client service has assisted in Large West End office development adjacent to Great Portland obtaining a record order book of some 455 million and Street tube station establishing us as preferred supplier on a significant pipeline of future work.
Premium office and retail development situated adjacent to St Pauls Cathedral in central London The Group is now positioned to derive growing synergy benefits from the flexibility and scale of its existing operations, while Rowens management and staff will relocate to new, bespoke beginning to explore new growth opportunities overseas.
offices in the same vicinity in June 2008, from where they will continue to provide a full service to clients.
Tom Haughey Chief Executive Officer 2 May 2008 Sept 04 Apr 05 Sept 05 Apr 06 Sept 06 Apr 07 Sept 07 Apr 08 Order Book m Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review 137 165 158 210 278 207 300 455 SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 19 RIVERSIDE BRIDGE, CAMBRIDGE The Riverside foot and cycle bridge is part of a programme by Cambridgeshire County Council to improve existing footpaths and cycle ways and links Riverside with Chesterton.
Watson Steel Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
