Operating review The evolving shape of ABF 2000 2000 to 2007 Profit m 2007 250 200 150 100 50 0 Operating profit by geography UK 2000 to 2007 Americas Asia Pacific Europe 2000 2007 Middle East & Africa 10% 10% 15% 25% 8% 19% 72% 41% following the relaunch of Kingsmill in I am enormously encouraged that the February, it made progress in increasing bread volumes and improving operating considerable progress made over recent years efficiency.
Ingredients suffered from the weakness of the US dollar in translating its places us well for growth in the future.
results into sterling but made good progress in local currencies.
Each of our businesses has continued to evolve and there have been a number of landmarks this year which have contributed to a transformation of the group.
The Chairman has already referred to the The last seven years have seen a considerable the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and Africa development of our sugar business and change in the shape and scale of the group.
and we have a significant and growing indeed the significance of these changes Revenue and operating profit have both presence in emerging markets.
is reflected in our re-naming of the business grown by more than 50%.
In 2000 the group segment from Primary Food to Sugar.
was dominated by the profit contribution from 2007 was another year of substantial growth The investment in Illovo gives us leadership our UK sugar operation.
Today Sugar and with revenue ahead by 13% to 6.8bn and in one of the worlds fastest developing Agriculture account for one third of the group adjusted operating profit 11% higher at sugar markets, Africa, and we have embarked and its composition has changed with a 622m.
These sizeable increases are largely on major expansion projects to enable us concentration on the growth markets of China a function of the Illovo acquisition and a to maximise our advantageous position for and Africa.
Primark has increased fourfold 37% increase in Primarks retail selling export opportunities.
and is now nearly one third of the groups space but also include good performances profit.
Geographically the UK now accounts from a number of the Grocery businesses We are also expanding our sugar business for only 41% of profit, there is a good and Agriculture.
The UK bakery business in the rapidly developing Chinese market.
balance in the scale of our businesses in underperformed the previous year but The investment in the beet sugar industry 06 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ingredients Grocery Retail Sugar & Agriculture Ingredients Grocery Retail Sugar & Agriculture represents an opportunity to use our originating from outside the regulated EU recently been given for the creation of a joint considerable technological expertise market and it has limited exposure to the venture, to be called Bo Tian, with the Hebei to make dramatic improvements in agricultural cyclical world sugar price.
We now have a Tian Lu Sugar Group.
ABF holds 51% of the yields and process efficiencies.
strong presence in the growth markets of joint venture.
Bo Tian will initially operate four China and a number of southern African beet sugar factories in the northern provinces Our entry into the important area of renewable countries and we have plans for significant of China but negotiations are well advanced fuels has been marked by the start of production capacity expansion here.
In addition, the Illovo for a further five factories and more are being at the UKs first bioethanol plant alongside acquisition provides the opportunity to develop considered.
A significant increase in sugar our sugar factory at Wissington.
Renewables quota and tariff free exports to the EU as a production is planned.
There is a major already play an important part in the groups result of four of the six countries in which they opportunity to improve beet yields by the operations, representing nearly half of the fuel operate having Least Developed Country status.
application of British Sugars European beet we consume running our factories.
Our biofuels sugar expertise through better agricultural operation goes a step further offering to the Based in the southern hemisphere, Illovos practices and technology transfer.
In addition market a viable and sustainable alternative operating season runs from April to March and renery capacity will be increased through to fossil derived transport fuels.
so our financial results include the contribution investment and efficiency improvements.
from the second half of Illovos 2006 7 season In Grocery, the Pataks brand represents and the first half of their 2007 8 season.
Cane The UK business benefited from a very a particularly good t with our existing production in the 2006 7 season was in line efficient campaign, the additional quota of businesses specialising in ethnic foods.
with the previous year but sugar production 83,000 tonnes acquired and lower energy was substantially below expectations at costs.
However, as expected, these factors This year was significant for Primark.
Many 1.7m tonnes, primarily due to poor weather were offset by the further impact on profit records were broken during the year and conditions in South Africa and Tanzania.
of sugar regime reform arising from the enormous customer and media interest Factory performance was satisfactory with temporary quota cut and the cost of the continues to mark every opening of each new record sugar production in Malawi and record restructuring levy which exceeded reduced store.
Oxford Street in London captured the output in a number of downstream products.
Sugar prices were more stable.
national imagination but similarly successful Revenue and profit benefited from higher Although the Allscott factory was closed at the openings featured throughout the UK, Ireland domestic sales, better regional and world end of the campaign, in light of the European and also in our new market of Spain where prices and continued cost savings.
The current Commission proposals announced in May we have demonstrated that good ideas travel.
season, 2007 8, is progressing well with own 2007 to make further changes to the EU cane production broadly in line with last year sugar regime reform, British Sugar decided I am enormously encouraged that the and sugar production forecast to increase to to reconsider its plans for its operations in considerable progress made over recent years 1.9m tonnes.
Factory performance has been the UK, and specically activities on the places us well for growth in the future.
broadly in line with plan.
Growth in profit for York site.
As a consequence, an application the 2007 8 season is anticipated.
for restructuring will be made to the UK government.
The future and extent of Sugar & Agriculture The development potential of Illovo was operations at the York site will be determined demonstrated by the announcement of a major once this application for restructuring has Sugar expansion of sugar and cane production in been approved.
The cost of closure of both Revenue 1,151m Zambia.
We are investing 100m to increase, factories was provided for in last years 2006 671m by 50%, the area of irrigated cane developed accounts.
In Poland profit was level with by Illovo and its growers, to increase factory last year with the benets of an excellent Adjusted operating profit 199m capacity and to build the wider infrastructure campaign, the additional quota of 11,000 2006 115m necessary to support a much larger operation.
tonnes acquired and factory rationalisation Sugar production is planned to increase from offsetting the impact of regime reform.
This was a very significant year in the 240,000 tonnes to 440,000 tonnes by the The Glinojeck factory performed ahead of development of our international sugar 2009 10 season.
Projects for substantial expectations following completion of its major business.
Revenue and profit were strongly further expansion are being developed.
Juice processing is ahead of last year driven by the first year now rmly established here.
This process was contribution from Illovo, which exceeded The recent investments in capacity in our four pioneered in our UK factories, permitting out our expectations, and a substantial increase cane sugar factories in south China enabled of season sugar rening, and is a major driver in profit from China.
Our European sugar us to process a record crop this year.
For a in improving asset utilisation.
The sugar businesses also performed well but profit was number of years growth in sugar consumption produced was 1.16m tonnes in the UK and affected by the temporary quota cut and the has exceeded growth in domestic production 0.21m tonnes in Poland.
net cost of the restructuring levy.
leading to a deficit in the Chinese market and In recent months the European Commission rm sugar prices.
The combination of crop and has announced measures to redress the We have taken a number of steps which prices has driven a substantial increase in profit.
imbalance in supply and demand for sugar have transformed this business.
For the current marketing year, Illovo Sugar, the largest producer in Africa, In August we announced an investment in the 2007 8, it announced a temporary quota we announced a major investment in the Chinese beet sugar industry.
This is centred withdrawal of 2.1m tonnes.
It has now allowed beet sugar industry in north China and we in the north east where the provinces have exports of up to 1.4m tonnes of quota sugar developed our biofuel business.
The enlarged abundant, high quality arable land with ideal and has allocated a proportion of the remaining business is now the worlds second largest weather conditions to produce high sugar sugar in intervention for non-food uses.
profit sugar producer with some two thirds of volume content in the beet.
Government approval has Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 Operating review continued INVESTING INSUGAR GROWTH WE HAVE MADE SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT IN OUR SUGAR BUSINESSES IN AFRICA AND CHINA IN LINE WITH OUR LONG-TERM PLANS FOR REALISING THEIR FULL POTENTIAL.
Illovos operations in Zambia irrigated land over the next and Swaziland have both seen seven years and increase the start of major expansion cane production signicantly.
Irrigated land for cane production in Zambia is being Sugar production in China substantially increased and its has increased signicantly annual factory output is planned with the establishment of to reach 440,000 tonnes a new joint venture, Bo Tian, within two years.
A major based in the north east and dam construction project is utilising the excellent climatic underway in Swaziland which and soil conditions for growing will increase the area of sugar beet.
08 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Africa Illovo Production expansion Zambian operations are expanding with a 50% increase in cane-growing area.
Sugar production is set to double.
Infrastructure investment Long-term development of the Ubombo operation in Swaziland includes construction of a holding dam as part of the aid-funded Lower Usutha Smallholder Irrigation Project.
Employee welfare Benets to employees extend to educational assistance, including school provision, bursaries, grants and loan-funding.
China Heilongjiang Production improvements A new sugar beet joint venture, Bo Tian, promises significant future business growth in the fertile north east region.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Operating review continued SUSTAINABLE BIOFUELS PRODUCTION RENEWABLE BIOFUELS OFFER A VIABLE ALTERNATIVE TO BOTH PETROL AND DIESEL.
Made from sustainable biomass, biofuels have a demonstrable advantage over fossil fuels in tackling the effects of carbon emissions on the climate.
Biofuel production in the UK is planned around the cultivation of under-utilised agricultural land, boosting the rural economy whilst safeguarding existing food production.
Initial development The UKs first bioethanol facility commenced production this year at the British Sugar site in Wissington, Norfolk using sugar beet as a feedstock.
Future production A full-scale bioethanol plant, using wheat as a feedstock, is to be built near Hull, as a joint venture between BP, DuPont and British Sugar.
10 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 in our EU businesses is expected to be lower opportunities for growth alongside those 32 new stores were opened, five smaller stores next year because of the substantial increase created by its technology-based feed were closed, bringing the total to 170 stores in the restructuring levy, from u126 per tonne ingredients business.
to u173, and the temporary quota withdrawal of 193,000 tonnes mitigated in part by the The UK delivered excellent results with full New store openings: reduction in beet costs.
year benets from restructuring, cost saving UK Aberdeen, Bedford, Birmingham initiatives and rmer pricing.
Frontier performed Merryhill, Blackpool, Burton-on-Trent, The adaptation package agreed in September ahead of expectations and recent investment Camberley, Cheltenham, Chestereld, by the European Commission primarily offers in systems, a low cost base and national Coventry, Doncaster, Dundee, Dunfermline, new incentives directly to growers to renounce trading have strengthened the business.
Eastbourne, Glasgow Parkhead, Greenock, quota permanently from the 2008 9 marketing Following our decision to focus on co-products, Hanley, Inverness, Irvine, Lincoln, Liverpool year onwards.
Its aim is to encourage additional our ruminant feed operations have benefited Church Street, London Oxford Street, renunciation of at least 13.5% of the European from the increasing demand in the UK dairy Londonderry, Oldham, Plymouth, Poole, quota in addition to the 2.2m tonnes already sector.
In pig and poultry, where our focus Redditch, Shefeld Meadowhall, renounced, with relief from the restructuring continues to be on compound feeds, our Swindon, Wolverhampton.
levy in 2007 8 and the benefit of compensation strategy of building strong supply chain Ireland Ballina, Dublin Swords.
British Sugar plans to renounce relationships with the key players in the Spain Murcia.
quota in the UK and Poland from 2008 9 as industry has further strengthened our business.
A quota Stores closed all resites : reduction of 13.5% would be 193,000 tonnes.
However, in China, margins were lower Aberdeen, Burton-on-Trent, Doncaster, following substantial increases in the cost of Dundee, Swindon.
The Wissington biofuel plant has been raw materials, particularly for soy, and reduced commissioned and is producing bioethanol for pig and poultry numbers following the outbreak blending with petroleum in the UK.
Raw material costs remain high Highlights during the year included the uses sugar beet as feedstock and has the but price increases are being negotiated to opening of Londons Oxford Street store in capacity to deliver 70m litres a year.
Vivergo Fuels, recover these costs.
A new feed mill was built April.
This was extremely successful, selling the joint venture with BP and DuPont in which in Harbin during the year bringing the total one million items in its first ten days of trading, ABF has a 45% interest, has now been number of mills in China to six at the year end.
and attracting considerable media coverage.
established and is working on the detailed design The 85,000 sq ft Liverpool store was opened for a world-scale bioethanol plant which will in September and was greeted with a similar use wheat as feedstock.
It is expected to cost Retail level of enthusiasm both by customers and 200m and will be built at BPs chemical site the media.
Primark has demonstrated success at Saltend, Hull.
Its capacity will be 420m litres Primark in trading from very large premises and now of bioethanol per year and is planned to come Revenue 1,602m has 25 stores trading from over 50,000 sq ft on-stream in late 2009.
ABF expects a return on 2006 1,168m of which eight trade from over 70,000 sq ft. its investment ahead of its cost of capital in the Over the last two years the average store size Adjusted operating profit 200m first full year of operation.
The plant will initially has risen by more than 50% from 19,000 sq ft 2006 166m produce bioethanol, but the partners will look to 29,000 sq ft. at the feasibility of converting it to biobutanol Littlewoods once the technology is available.
It is expected Revenue nil Since the year end we have opened a new that formal agreements will be entered into by 2006 141m store in Brighton which brings to a conclusion the joint venture with AB Agri and Frontier the conversion of the 41 former Littlewoods Adjusted operating profit nil Agriculture.
The supply of locally grown wheat stores.
This highly successful development 2006 19m would be arranged by Frontier which is the programme has driven significant growth in the UKs leading grain marketer and supplier of number of stores and selling space in the UK.
The major co-product of Once again Primarks results were very strongly Primark is now established as a major clothing bioethanol production, distillers grain, would be ahead of last year, revenue was up 37% retailer on the UK high street.
It will use its highly specialised and profit up 20%.
The revenue increase was Primark as the UKs second largest clothing sales and marketing business, which sources driven by the opening of substantially more retailer by volume and Verdict Research and develops co-products from the food, drink retail selling space.
Like-for-like sales growth now places Primark as the leading retailer and energy industries, to market the distillers was 1% and our estimate of like-for-like sales in value clothing.
grain as an alternative feed for livestock.
growth, in stores unaffected by new openings, is 7%.
This was achieved despite the impact, The stores in Oxford Street and Liverpool Agriculture common to other clothing retailers, of poor showcase the new t-out in our larger stores.
Revenue 687m weather over the summer months.
Operating The high standard aims to meet customers 2006 623m profit margin was affected by a higher expectations of prestigious high street depreciation charge, arising from the recent locations.
A range of nishes, colours and Adjusted operating profit 18m investment in new stores, and by a higher level textures has been used to create zones 2006 15m of discounting of the summer season stock to within the spacious store interiors which make way for the autumn range.
reinforce and differentiate the departments.
AB Agri performed well and its strategy to An electronic call forward system is being focus on working with large-scale suppliers Retail selling space increased by 1.3m sq ft introduced to speed customer transaction and livestock producers is delivering new during the year to 4.8m sq ft at the year end.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Operating review continued Primark hits Oxford Street ONE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS THIS YEAR WAS THE OPENING OF A PRESTIGIOUS NEW STORE IN OXFORD STREET IN LONDONS WEST END.
12 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The excitement created by the opening of this major outlet was epitomised by the unprecedented number of customers visiting the store and the outstanding sales performance seen across all the brands within the Primark range.
This enthusiasm was mirrored in Liverpool when its new store opened its doors and demonstrates the strong allegiance felt by customers across the UK.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Operating review continued STORE ZONING BRIGHT, MODERN AND SPACIOUS INTERIORS, LIKE THOSE OF OUR NEW STORES IN OXFORD STREET AND LIVERPOOL, HAVE BEEN DESIGNED TO CREATE SEPARATE SHOPPING ZONES WITHIN THE STORES.
At Oxford Street, womenswear, including Atmosphere, Secret Possessions and Primark Essentials occupies the entire ground oor.
Menswear, childrenswear and homeware occupy their own distinctively merchandised areas on the first floor, including our Cedarwood State, Rebel, Early Days and Primark Home brands.
14 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Spanish stores Following the opening of our first Spanish store in Madrid last year, a second was opened this year in Murcia.
Our expansion into Spain has been a success and the next cities to experience the Primark phenomenon will be Jerez and Oviedo, with others to follow.
Surprises in-store This year we have surprised and delighted our customers with a range of organic cotton Tees and tops and a new range of luxurious cashmere knitwear.
All at Primarks so affordable prices, of course.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Operating review continued Whilst the main focus for development has this disposal is included in the income has extensive interests and expertise in cerealbeen the UK, trading in Ireland continued statement below operating profit.
based branded foods both in the UK and to be very strong last year.
It will be a strong partner expanded with the opening of two new stores The Ovaltine brand again performed well.
to ensure the further development of the and extensions to existing stores, particularly Disappointing sales in Switzerland during the Jordans business.
at the successful location at Blanchardstown, poor ski season were more than offset by good west of Dublin.
Trading in our two stores growth achieved in Asia and a successful Westmill Foods is the leading supplier of in Spain exceeded expectation.
Like-for-like targeting of developing markets, notably Brazil, ethnic foods to the ethnic wholesale channel growth in Madrid, just over a year from opening, Nigeria and Vietnam, all of which had strong in the UK.
profit was sharply ahead following is very strong and the sales density exceeds double digit growth.
Ready-to-drink had a the successful integration of the brands the average for the UK and Ireland.
particularly strong year and the new product acquired last year and the completion of a new development programme continued apace.
New packing Plans are currently in place to open nine stores Early success has been achieved in raising lines for the Rajah spice brand were installed in the next financial year including Ealing and prices in key markets to recover recent rises and this brand, together with Lucky Boat Basingstoke in the UK and Cork in Ireland.
in world commodity prices, particularly in noodles and Green Dragon, recorded double Five stores are expected to open in Spain: dairy and barley.
Restructuring of our factory digit sales growth.
Scarcity of non-GM, long Jerez, two in Madrid, Bilbao and Oviedo.
at Neuenegg in Switzerland, to reduce costs grain rice from the US affected sales of the and improve operating exibility, is progressing Tolly Boy brand but this was offset in part by 9% of all clothing purchases in the UK according to plan with most of the major work strong growth in sales of our basmati brands.
takes place at Primark TNS.
Voted Best Value High Street Fashion The pan-oriental retail brand, Blue Dragon, by GMTV and ITV viewers.
At Silver Spoon, significant business gains performed well this year and delivered good were made in the wholesale sector, despite growth.
During the year we announced the continued margin pressure on sugar.
relocation of manufacturing from two factories Grocery Billingtons and Allinson were completely in Wales to a new factory now being built re-launched and several new products have in Poland.
The factory is due to open in Revenue 2,605m been introduced resulting in significant new spring 2008.
Working closely with Illovo, the business has more than In September we completed the acquisition Adjusted operating profit 153m doubled its Fairtrade sugar volume both of Pataks, a leading brand in Indian cuisine 2006 182m under the Billingtons brand and in own label.
widely recognised for its authenticity.
It was An innovative brown sweetener was introduced established in England in 1957 and has grown Revenue for the year was in line with last year under the Silver Spoon branding which has strongly in the UK but has also established a but profit declined from 182m to 153m.
It manufactures, Adverse currency translation, particularly as markets and distributes Indian cooking sauces, a result of US dollar weakness, affected both After a difficult first half, the crispbread market curry pastes, chutneys and other meal revenue and profit.
At constant currencies, returned to growth in the second half of the accompaniments from the Indian sub-continent.
revenue increased by 4% and profit was year stimulated by a continued trend towards In the UK it supplies both retail and foodservice.
Operating profit was further more premium variants, new product launches Its main factory is in Leigh, Lancashire.
reduced by losses incurred at Allied Bakeries, from Ryvita and vigorous marketing support.
margin pressure at Silver Spoon and a charge Ryvita extended crispbread into sweet snacking The combination of Pataks with our existing of 8m for factory rationalisation at ACH in the with the launch of Muesli Crunch and provided businesses will create a leading position in the US and Blue Dragon.
a convenient format with the introduction of UK for the supply of world foods to both the Sesame and Multigrain Snackpacks.
Healthy retail and wholesale channels.
These markets Our international hot beverage brands, snacking has continued to grow but these have grown strongly and this growth is Twinings and Ovaltine, continued to deliver markets have become increasingly competitive.
Our grocery business strong growth with the benefit of marketing However, Ryvita Minis strengthened its position outside the UK will provide the capability to investment in their strategic markets.
Twinings within the Healthy Bagged Snacks segment drive the international growth of Pataks.
The growth was driven by green tea and the strong and we extended our offering within cereal integration of Blue Dragon and Pataks will growth of Everyday tea in the UK.
We made bars with the launch of Ryvita Luxury Goodness begin in the next few months.
good progress in developing our market shares bars which combine great taste with strong around the world, but most notably in the UK, health credentials.
Allied Bakeries underperformed this year which is at an all time high, in Italy where we with a particularly poor first half when lower enjoy over one third of speciality tea sales, and In September 2007 we acquired 20% of the volumes and non-recovery of higher wheat in France.
The introduction of new packaging highly successful UK breakfast cereal and costs affected profitability.
Following this, the in the US had a significant impact, raising the cereal bar business, Jordans.
The brand has Kingsmill brand was relaunched in February Twinings share to record levels.
In August we a strong and differentiated consumer position with improved products and new packaging.
signed an agreement with an existing Japanese based on its use of natural and Conservation Recipes were improved to exclude articial distributor to establish a joint venture in Japan Grade ingredients.
It is well positioned to preservatives and some loaves are now larger to provide a platform for developing our benefit from consumers growing desire for and have a softer texture.
The launch was presence in one of the five biggest tea markets natural ingredients and healthy eating.
This supported by strong marketing and television in the world.
We sold our Scandinavian food investment is an exciting development for our advertising.
The combination of price increases distributor in October 2006, and the profit on UK branded grocery business which already to recover the increased wheat costs from 2006, 16 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OUR SPICES AND SEASONINGS NOW BETTER REFLECT CUSTOMER TASTE AND LIFESTYLE.
In addition to new products such as grinders and an organic range, our herbs & spices brands have been strengthened through a comprehensive in-store merchandising campaign.
Revitalisation The new Spice Islands grinder packs have benefited from strong promotion on-shelf to customers.
New range The link with Weber Grill, a US brand synonymous with barbeque cooking, has helped the launch of a new line of seasonings and marinades.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Operating review continued Creating a world foods group THE COMBINATION OF PATAKS WITH BLUE DRAGON HAS CREATED THE FOUNDATION FOR A NEW WORLD FOODS VENTURE.
18 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The integration of Pataks with Blue Dragon provides scale and complementary products for this new enterprise.
Its remit is to source, manufacture, license and distribute authentic world food brands in the UK and key international territories, including the US, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, France and the Netherlands.
Pataks The Pataks brand is the UK market leader, having successfully brought the true taste of India into the kitchen through a real passion for authentic taste and high quality.
Blue Dragon Blue Dragon encompasses over 200 branded products, including special packs for the foodservice industry and export markets.
All are imported straight from the Far East or produced in the UK using traditional Oriental recipes.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Operating review continued higher volumes and significant enhancements The acquisition also included part of the dry Ingredients in operating efficiency resulted in an improving yeast business together with ownership of the performance in the second half.
Unprecedented Fermipan brand in a large number of markets increases in the cost of bread-quality our over Revenue 728m throughout the world.
This will signicantly the summer of 2007 have resulted in the need 2006 683m improve our ability to offer excellent sales for further bread price increases which are reach and customer service in Europe, Adjusted operating profit 75m being negotiated with the major retailers.
Africa, Middle East and south and west Asia.
2006 79m Our Australian grocery business saw sales and In bakery ingredients we continued to share underlying profit substantially ahead of last year.
Our Ingredients businesses are almost entirely technology across the group and have started Milling and baking performed well with a strong located outside the UK and are therefore to see the benefit in our global accounts.
improvement in the performance of the New susceptible to the impact of movements Our South American business continued to South Wales bakery.
The substantial increase in exchange rates on the translation of their expand and was able to recover raw material in the cost of wheat during the year was recovered results.
Reported revenue and profit were cost increases with pricing.
by a price increase in February.
Strong growth respectively 7% ahead and 5% lower than was enjoyed in 9 Grain bread and Bazaar last year.
However, at constant exchange rates, We completed the sale of our commodity Breads of the World, reecting consumer revenue increased by 12% and profit was level food polyols business in the US in February preference for healthy breads and variety.
In addition, the strength of the and by the year end we had closed the old operations have now expanded into China with Real had a substantial adverse effect on our manufacturing plant in Delaware and sold the opening of a plant in Wuhan to supply KFC Brazilian operations through competition from the site.
The loss on disposal of this business, with bread rolls.
The bakery also sells Tip Top cheaper imports.
including the write-off of goodwill and the branded products into the Wuhan retail market costs of the plant closure, is charged in these to meet the increasing demand of the Chinese AB Mauri generated good sales growth in yeast, accounts.
The business supplying antacids, consumer for western style products.
The particularly in South America and south and excipients including polyols, and drug delivery performance of the meat and dairy businesses west Asia.
Construction of the yeast nishing systems to pharmaceutical companies has continued to improve.
Our two major brands, plant in Mexico was completed during the year been retained.
Dons and Watsonia, benefited from relaunches, which, coupled with a bakery ingredients plant and the successful introduction of new shaved due for commissioning in January 2008, will meat products improved their market share.
signicantly increase our presence in this large Growth in textile enzymes market.
We have also completed the expansion The boom in textile production in the ACH performed satisfactorily in both the US of our yeast plant at Hebei in China and are Asia Pacic region has facilitated growth and Mexico.
Mazola marginally lost share in reviewing opportunities for further expansion in our textile enzymes business.
Strong a US vegetable oil market which declined in the region to take advantage of continued sales of Primarks stone-washed jeans by 3% in the year.
The cost of vegetable oils market growth.
Capital investment continued have contributed to this success.
increased sharply in the second half which led with an automation project to improve the to some margin pressure.
Very strong demand efficiency of the UK yeast plant in Hull.
for these oils, including demand for the production of biofuels, is continuing to drive During the year we bought out our joint venture these commodity prices still higher.
Further partner in the Philippines which enabled us to price increases are planned to recover these rationalise production in the region and announce higher input costs in 2007 8.
Consumer concerns the closure of the old Philippines plant.
over the use of trans fatty acids remained a strong inuence on the performance of our A key challenge across the yeast businesses is foodservice business.
A number of restaurant the effective treatment of waste water.
To enable businesses have changed the oils used in a more co-ordinated approach to technical food preparation with the result that our profit projects across the regions we have reorganised declined.
Our business is now having success our central technical resources under the new In ABF Ingredients, strong sales growth with the sale of oil formulations with no trans AB Mauri Global Technology Group.
One of its across all sectors has helped to drive profit fatty acids.
Oil processing at Jacksonville has first initiatives was to identify the most appropriate development with progress particularly in the ceased and we have withdrawn from the supply technologies for waste water management.
We expanded both within growing and of certain low margin commodity products.
Growth in enzymes was profit in Mexico increased with further progress Subsequent to the year end we acquired certain supported by investment in capacity expansion from Capullo and its other grocery brands.
of the European assets of the yeast business at its Finnish plant.
Capacity expansion has of Gilde Bakery Ingredients.
The acquired also been achieved in proteins and yeast ACH successfully launched extensions to its business comprises a wet and dry yeast plant extracts.
Such is the sales momentum in these gourmet spice business with both the introduction based in Casteggio, Italy: a 50% shareholding businesses that further expansion projects are of a new packaging format, grinders, under the in the Uniferm yeast and bakery ingredients planned in enzymes, proteins and yeast extracts Spice Islands brand and the launch of a new plants in Germany: a number of West European in the coming year, supported by investment line of gourmet grilling spices under the Weber sales and distribution companies: and a in both selling and research capabilities.
Weber Grill is licensed from the 10% stake in Somadir, Moroccos leading manufacturer of Weber grills and is synonymous yeast manufacturer.
Ownership of some of with barbeques and outdoor grilling.
Both the businesses is dependent on clearances George Weston launches have exceeded initial expectations.
by the relevant competition authorities.
Chief Executive 20 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Fleischmann This trusted brand has been the focal point of the comprehensive marketing programme embracing bakery schools, technicians, product developers and marketing people in each country of the targeted regions.
IN HISPANOAMERICAN COUNTRIES, THE BAKERY MARKET IS DOMINATED BY LOCAL CRAFT BAKERS.
We have developed specically-targeted programmes so our distributors can fully support bakeries at a local level.
These initiatives include technical assistance and training, as well as marketing programmes jointly developed with key bakeries BUILDING to improve the value delivered to their customers.
In this way we help our customers build their LOCAL businesses for the future.
RELATIONSHIPS Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
