REVIEW OF OPERATIONS 12 12 BUSIneSS revIew antony Maris Vice President Operations and Production Whereas previous years were benchmarked by measurable achievements in our exploration drilling programme: in steady progress in production growth and in expansion of our exploration portfolio, the primary achievements in 2007 have benchmarked progress toward goals that will hopefully be realised in the future.
Qualitatively, the verdict is still out on our drilling programmes as the high profile Te Giac Den well is still drilling in Vietnam: the big boost in production in Yemen is set to begin after a year of planned curtailment and the exploration drilling phase in our West Africa portfolio is expected to commence later in 2008. vIetnaM In March, the Trident 9 rig moved on location China SOCO holds its interests in the Cuu Long to drill the shallower Te Giac Cam 1X TGCBasin through its 80% owned subsidiary 1X well on Prospect S. The reservoir in Burma SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Vietnam and the primary target, the Lower Bach Ho 5.2 Laos through its 100% ownership of OPECO, LBH 5.2 interval, was not developed, but Inc. SOCO Vietnam holds a 25% working the well was deepened to further evaluate oil Thailand interest in Block 9-2, which is operated by shows witnessed in the Oligocene section.
the Hoan Vu Joint Operating Company and While drilling in the Oligocene, the well Cambodia holds a 28.5% working interest in Block 16-1, encountered unexpected high pressure, which is operated by the Hoang Long Joint with associated oil and gas shows, and had Operating Company HLJOC.
OPECO, Inc. to be cased using a seven inch liner prior vietnam holds a 2% working interest in Block 16-1. to drilling to total depth.
Examination of the well and logging data indicated that, despite The Cuu Long Basin is a shallow water, the hydrocarbon influx, it was not sufficiently near shore, oil rich basin defined by several encouraging for the well to be tested.
The high profile producing oil fields, the largest high pressures did, however, support the of which has been the Bach Ho field, which concept of porosity preservation at depth lies adjacent to both Block 9-2 and Block due to early migration of hydrocarbons: 16-1.
Bach Ho has produced more than the basis for the deep play on the Block.
one billion barrels of oil to date.
Ultimately the TGC-1X well was plugged and abandoned after reaching a total depth of Block 16-1 4,196 metres.
With this well the Trident 9 rig Exploration drilling on Block 16-1 got off to completed its contract and was released.
a slow start in 2007 as the Trident 9 drilling rig experienced lengthy weather delays in Meanwhile, the PVD-1 rig drilling the TGD-1X moving off the site of the last exploration well encountered the first high pressure well drilled under the Block 9-2 exploration zone, higher than prognosed, and had to licence.
Also, the Petrovietnam Drilling and plug back to sidetrack and case the hole.
Well Services PDWS newly commissioned After setting casing, the rig was taken off drilling rig, the PVD-1, did not begin its two line due to a series of control system failures, year contract until early April when it spudded which potentially could have compromised the Te Giac Den 1X TGD-1X well, primarily safe continuation of drilling operations.
After targeting the expected high pressure, high being off-line for approximately three weeks, temperature Oligocene interval on Prospect the control systems were corrected and the E. Almost immediately, the PVD-1 rig began rig resumed drilling until penetrating a second experiencing a number of operating issues, high pressure interval, which was beyond the which adversely impacted drilling.
safe operating capacity of the drilling rig.
SOCO International plc 12 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Review of Operations continued Gordon Graham Group Exploration Manager The TGD-1X well had encountered no oil shows.
There were sands with oil pressure well control equipment, including hydrocarbons in two Oligocene clastic shows in the Oligocene C, however, log a 15,000 psi blow out preventer, before sequences, which were separated by a evaluation indicated that the sands had moving back to Prospect E to re-enter volcanic layer.
Well logs over the upper poor permeability and they were not tested.
the TGD-1X borehole and drill a sidetrack, sequence indicated approximately 30 the TGD-1XST1.
The well kicked off at metres of net pay.
After drilling through a In August, the Adriatic XI rig was moved approximately 650 metres and was cased layer of volcanics, the well encountered to drill the Te Giac Lam 1X TGL-1X well three times prior to reaching the top of the a lower clastic sequence with oil and gas on the O prospect to test a Miocene high pressure and high temperature section, shows.
However, the mud weight required four-way closure on one of the Basement which is the preliminary target just above to control the pressure and gas indicated ridges that appeared on seismic to be Basement.
This well has taken longer to drill downhole pressures at the upper limit of analogous to the geological setting of the than expected, partially due to equipment the safe operating capability of the drilling TGT field discovery to the east.
The well problems on the rig, but also due to the rig.
Consequently, drilling had to be halted was subsequently deepened to intersect complexities of drilling the high pressure after only 22 metres of the sequence the Oligocene sands.
Even though the well sections and the need to put behind casing had been penetrated.
High pressure and was drilled overbalanced, mud log data the different sands to prevent downhole temperature also meant that the section indicated 70 metres of sand with good oil pressure problems.
In July, the well shows in the Oligocene section.
A test was was temporarily suspended at 4,625 conducted over this interval, however, the During the year, exploration drilling on Block metres and the PVD-1 rig was released sands at this location were found to be 15-2 01, the adjacent block to the north of to commence development drilling tight and further testing was discontinued.
Block 16-1, resulted in a discovery which operations, as originally planned, on the In September, the well was plugged and proved to be an extension of the northern Ca Ngu Vang CNV field on Block 9-2. abandoned after reaching a total depth of fault block of the TGT field.
additional time was required to understand While the PVD-1 rig was battling the highly the various implications of this extension complex TGD-1X well, the Adriatic XI drilling The rig next moved to drill the Voi Nau before progressing the application for a rig began its two year contract in July when 1X VN-1X exploration well on the AA declaration of commerciality on the TGT it was mobilised to drill the Te Giac Hong prospect located on trend with the oilfield field.
A technical review of the wells drilled 1X TGH-1X exploration well to evaluate discovered in 2002 by the Voi Trang 1X in the northern fault block of the TGT field the L North prospect.
The VN-1X was drilled on a four way in Block 16-1 and those of the extension drilled to evaluate the Miocene and Upper closure to evaluate the Oligocene section drilled on Block 15-2 01 concluded that Oligocene sections that are productive in that was productive in Voi Trang.
While in excess of 95% of the accumulation in the Te Giac Trang TGT discoveries.
The the well encountered oil shows, the sands the northern fault block was located in well was plugged and abandoned after were poorly developed and had insufficient SOCOs Block 16-1.
This review resulted in reaching a total depth of 3,685 metres.
In October, the a delay in providing Petrovietnam with the The well evaluated the LBH 5.2 and the well was plugged and abandoned after necessary information that would allow it to Oligocene C formations.
The LBH 5.2 reaching a total depth of 3,130 metres.
sands were poorly developed and had The Adriatic XI rig was then fitted with high 14 14 BUSIneSS revIew In the first quarter of 2008, the reserve sands, however they were not charged with 5,447 metres measured depth.
During the assessment report, the precursor of an hydrocarbons possibly indicating that the drilling, it encountered an anomalous high official request to approve the declaration structure was developed after migration.
pressure zone, which resulted in a plugback of commerciality, was submitted to and redrill, finally reaching total depth on 31 Petrovietnam.
The outline development Sands were also encountered in both the December.
In the subsequent abbreviated plan is expected to be submitted early in Oligocene C and E sequences.
Although test, the well tested at approximately 10,000 the second quarter of 2008.
Upon approval the Oligocene C had good shows, the barrels of liquid per day with a 30% water of the outline development plan, work will sands were thinner than expected and, cut.
The well would be expected to clean up commence on the detailed development following evaluation of the electric logs, it and flow clean oil, but the plan is to perform plan.
The target is to seek formal approval was decided not to flow test this horizon.
In preliminary testing only of the development for the commitment to the development of the Oligocene E, the shows encountered wells in order to keep the timetable for first oil the TGT field in the fourth quarter of 2008. were of residual oil indicating that the near the end of the second quarter or early Although more work is required, approval reservoir had been breached.
This well third quarter of 2008. of the declaration of commerciality is was the final exploration well to be drilled expected around mid-year.
on Block 9-2 and the exploration licence The second development well on CNV, the expired at the end of 2007.
CNV-2P, commenced on 7 February 2008 In January 2008, the Company received and was drilling as this report went to press.
formal notification that the Prime Minister The first half of 2007 was primarily focused In total, three development wells and a single of The Socialist Republic of Vietnam had on the letting of all major contracts injector well are expected to be drilled in the granted the extension of the deadline of associated with the Pilot Development field development.
the HLJOCs obligation of surrendering Plan on the CNV field, which was the remainder of the Block 16-1 Contract officially approved in December 2006 CNV is being developed as a satellite Area until 6 June 2008.
Subsequent to this platform to the Bach Ho field.
Agreement was granted to allow the completion of the approval, Petrovietnam became a full paying has been reached by the parties as to the previously agreed active work programme.
participant in its 50% interest in Block 9-2. utilisation charges for the Bach Ho facilities.
Application for appraisal areas on Block Certain aspects of the development 16-1 will be made before the expiry of the During the year, work began on the programme, particularly the gas sales extended exploration licence.
fabrication of both the unmanned offshore agreement for the associated gas produced platform and the pipeline that will transport from the CNV field, have not yet been Block 9-2 gas and liquids to Bach Ho for processing finalised.
However, conclusion of these The exploration phase of work on Block 9- and transportation to market.
The PVDremaining agreements is not seen to have 2 was concluded in 2007 when the Ca Ong 1 drilling rig moved on location to begin an impact on the scheduled first oil date.
Doi 2X COD-2X well was drilled during the development drilling programme the first quarter on the COD structure to on the CNV field on 21 August, after evaluate the possibility that the clastics play experiencing some weather delays.
The on Block 16-1 extended into this Block.
first development well on CNV, the CNV-1P, This well encountered Lower Miocene was a complicated long reach well drilled to SOCO International plc 14 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Review of Operations continued George Hepler Group Technical Engineering Manager YeMen In the first two months of 2008, both water Drilling activity with three rigs continued injection and gas reinjection into Basement Saudi throughout 2007 as the East Shabwa Block was at capacity with water injection rates of Arabia 10 Consortium continued the programme approximately 50,000 barrels of water per of appraisal and development of the Kharir day.
Capacity is expected to increase during Basement.
The consortium comprises the year.
Recent pressure surveys have Oman Comeco Petroleum, Inc. 28.57% interest, confirmed pressure maintenance in both the in which SOCO holds a 58.75% interest, north and western sides of the Kharir field.
28.57% interest and No significant water breakthroughs have operator, Occidental Yemen Ltd. 28.57% been noted to date.
Several Basement wells Somalia interest and Kuwait Foreign Petroleum have been temporarily shut-in to allow for reExploration Co. 14.29% interest.
pressuring of the reservoir in order to shrink the gas cap in the western part of the field.
Appraisal work was focused on testing the areal extents of the Basement interval in the In addition, there is significant activity ongoing Kharir field.
Several Basement producers, to increase the production handling capacity aimed at appraising and developing the of the processing equipment.
Alongside southern to south western flank area of the the addition of new process equipment, field, have been drilled.
The results to date the existing equipment is undergoing of these wells have been very encouraging, debottlenecking to maximise throughput.
indicating greater fracturing and hence greater performance and more oil in-place in In February 2008, the Company entered into this area of the field.
a conditional sale and purchase agreement with Sinochem, a Chinese oil and gas Further development has centred on drilling company, wherein Sinochem would acquire wells into the overlying Biyad horizon to SOCO Yemen Pty Limited, the wholly provide water for the Basement injection owned SOCO subsidiary which indirectly schemes and drilling Basement water holds its interests in Block 10 in Yemen.
Production from the field was Details of this transaction can be found in purposely limited below the average level The Financial Review section of this report.
This limitation was a direct result of delays in installing water injection equipment associated with the reservoir pressure maintenance project and issues with water filtration equipment.
16 16 BUSIneSS revIew keY perFOrManCe InDICatOrS 2007 2006 2005 Production barrels of oil per day 6,316 6,766 5,684 Total proven and probable reserve additions millions of barrels of oil equivalent 2.6 41.8 100.6 Proven and probable reserves millions of barrels of oil equivalent 160.9 160.6 133.2 See the Five Year Summary on page 71 for definitions tHaIlanD storage and offloading vessel has been Burma Laos SOCOs 99.93% owned Thailand subsidiary, commissioned to arrive on site during the SOCO Exploration Thailand Co. Ltd. first half for a simultaneous drilling and SOCO Thai, will hold a 40% interest in the production programme.
Bualuang oilfield located offshore in the Gulf thailand of Thailand after the full earn-in terms of a The Farmee has already commenced Cambodia farm-out are fulfilled.
construction and other commitments designated as Phase II activities thus Vietnam The Farmee concluded a high resolution indicating its intent to earn its full 60% 100 kilometre 2D seismic programme working interest by installing a platform, during the second quarter of 2007. drilling up to eight additional wells and Malaysia Construction of a 12 slot wellhead platform taking the project to first oil.
The Farmee commenced in 2007 and was completed funds 100% of costs during Phase I, but early in 2008.
A platform drilling rig drilled SOCO Thai would fund 8% of the Phase II two wells during February 2008.
After the end of the Phase II period, development well, the Bualuang 05, was the Farmee would be designated the drilled and logged to a true vertical depth operator of the project.
Interests earned of 1,221 metres sub-sea.
Preliminary and operatorship are subject to approval of evaluation of the well logs confirmed the the appropriate regulatory authorities of the well encountered oil pay over a 25 metre Government of Thailand.
gross interval approximately 21 metres of net pay.
The well encountered porosity Under the terms of the farm-out, at the averaging 29% and preliminary core end of the Phase II period, the Farmee will analysis indicated permeability averaged engage an independent reservoir engineer 809 millidarcies over the pay interval.
to perform an analysis of the proven reserves contained in the Bualuang field.
The second well, the Bualuang 01, was The Farmee will pay SOCO Thai an amount drilled to a true vertical depth of 1,270 equal to one dollar for each barrel of proven metres and logged.
Preliminary evaluation reserves over 10.4 million barrels.
of the well logs indicated that the well encountered oil pay over a 23 metre gross interval approximately 20 metres of net pay.
This well was not cored, but the logs over the pay zone indicated an average porosity of 27%.
A floating production, SOCO International plc 16 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Review of Operations continued repUBlIC OF COnGO with a 29% working interest in the Block.
BraZZavIlle The assignment of interests is subject SOCO Exploration and Production Congo to approval of the appropriate regulatory SA SOCO EPC, which is held through the authorities of the Government of the republic Democratic Companys 85% owned subsidiary SOCO Republic of Congo Brazzaville, waivers of Congo republic of Congo Limited, holds an interest in, and is the of any third party preferential rights and Congo designated operator of, the Marine XI Block certain obligations of Petrovietnam.
offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
DeMOCratIC repUBlIC OF A 1,200 square kilometre 3D seismic COnGO kInSHaSa angola acquisition programme was completed SOCO DRC Limited SOCO DRC, the over the shallow water Block located in Companys 85% owned subsidiary holds the Lower Congo Basin, in the fourth 99% of SOCO Exploration and Production quarter of 2006.
Initial processing of the DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC, the data has been completed and Pre Stack designated operator with an 85% working Depth Migration PSDM of the data is now interest in the 800 square kilometre Nganzi underway in order to better image the Block, onshore the Democratic Republic pre-salt structure.
Cohydro, the state owned oil company, holds the remaining Due to additional iterations of the PSDM, 15% interest.
processing is slightly behind schedule, however SOCO EPC expects to tender SOCO E&P DRC received Cabinet around mid-year for a multi-well drilling approval of its Production Sharing Contract programme which is likely to commence in PSC in August 2007, and final approval the second half of 2008. through a Presidential Decree was received in March 2008.
A geochemical survey In March 2008, SOCO EPC entered into a was conducted in August to evaluate farm-out agreement wherein it agreed to the potential of several leads previously farm-out 8.5% of its interest in the Marine identified by an aeromagnetic and gravity XI Block to Petrovietnam Exploration survey conducted by the Company.
The Production Corporation Ltd. SOCO EPC results will be used to help lay out a 2D will remain as the operator.
18 18 BUSIneSS revIew Serge lescaut Manager Africa Region Seismic acquisition is scheduled to begin Angolan state owned oil company, holds later in the first half of 2008. a 51% interest in the PSA and is operator, with Teikoku Oil Co. Limited and Angola In March 2008, SOCO E&P DRC entered Consulting Resources holding the into a new PSC with the Government of remaining interests of 17% and the DRC, Dominion Petroleum Limited 15%, respectively.
Dominion and Cohydro, to acquire exclusive rights for hydrocarbon exploration An airborne gravity and magnetic survey on Block 5, located in the southern was conducted over the Block in June Albertine Graben in eastern DRC adjacent and processing and interpretation were to the DRC Uganda border.
The Block conducted during the third quarter.
The has an area of 7,105 square kilometres, survey provided the basis for laying out a including part of Lake Edward.
A contract DRC holds a 38.25% participating interest for seismic acquisition was awarded to in the PSC with Dominion, as operator, Grant Geophysical and acquisition began holding a 46.75% interest and Cohydro in the fourth quarter of 2007.
However, in holding the remaining 15% interest.
The late December, there was a fatality as the first phase of the PSC has a five year span, contractors seismic crew was attacked in during which SOCO and Dominion will a remote area of the Block.
Consequently carry out geological and geophysical work, the contractor declared force majeure.
The acquire at least 300km of seismic data and seismic contract was later cancelled by the drill two exploration wells.
anGOla The Company was notified in August 2007 that the Executive Decree outlining SOCO Cabinda Limiteds SOCO Cabinda 17% participating interest in the Production Sharing Agreement PSA for the Cabinda Onshore North Block became effective in July.
SOCO holds 80% of the interest in SOCO Cabinda.
Sonangol P&P, the SOCO International plc 18 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
