Directors report: Business review Operations review Tullow manages its exploration activities and production business in an integrated manner with a clear focus on value.
We seek material positions in assets where our technical and operational skills can make a real difference.
Production and development In recent years we have focused on delivering value from Tullows growing portfolio and have made significant investments in building our team and enhancing operating capability.
Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer Our producing assets performed strongly during 2007, driving Group output to 73,100 boepd, up 13%.
This allowed Tullow to capitalise on oil prices that at times approached record levels.
Our production rates in Africa were particularly encouraging, led by the Okume development in Equatorial Guinea.
In the UK, investment was redirected in favour of international programmes in response to gas market conditions.
This meant that UK production remained broadly stable.
As we grow, we continue to focus on ensuring that our resources, both human and financial, are being applied in the optimum manner to the best opportunities.
Exploration Our exploration success has opened up new geological plays with significant upside potential.
Our focus is now on the appraisal of these regions while maintaining an active exploration and new ventures programme to generate the next phase of growth.
Angus McCoss, Exploration Director From an exploration perspective, our discoveries in Ghana and Uganda have created a step change in Tullows outlook and we will now focus resources on appraisal and further regional exploration campaigns.
Our exploration goal in Uganda is to build on the 100% exploration success rate to date and to drill the remaining prospect inventory as quickly and effectively as possible.
In Ghana we are primarily focused on appraising beyond the proven Jubilee field, which has timate upside potential of 1.3 billion barrels.
Not all of our campaigns were successful and the outcome of the Kudu-8 well, offshore Namibia, was disappointing.
Although the well found gas, reservoir quality would not support commercial flow rates.
12 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2007 Working interest production 2007 Capital investment 2007 Exploration success rate 13% 370million 56% Future production growth Longer-term ambitions Following the discovery of the Jubilee field in Ghana, we 2008 will be another busy year for Tullow as we move are formulating plans for an extensive operated appraisal towards sanction of the Jubilee field development in Ghana, and development drilling campaign and the initiation of continue to explore, appraise and develop the significant the first phase of development with first production potential of the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda and targeted for 2010. optimally exploit the asset portfolio.
Tullow has, over recent years, prepared for the challenges these important The completion of the acquisition of Hardman Resources projects will bring by steadily building the organisational in early 2007, provided us with an opportunity to experience and knowledge required to control and consolidate our position in Uganda, take operational successfully execute projects of this scale and diversity.
control of the critical Block 2 and define the pace of investment.
During the year we conducted a successful The delivery of value from these world-class projects appraisal programme, commenced work on an EPS will provide not only an opportunity for us to leverage and are moving towards first oil in 2009. from the long-term investment in our team but also the opportunity to build new skills within the Elsewhere we continue to rank our many investment organisation to support our longer-term ambitions.
opportunities and invest in the high-graded production and development projects to ensure continued production growth from our existing assets.
Exploration portfolio Exploration focus For Tullow, geology outranks geography and our Our focus is maintained on developing our experience in our exploration portfolio comprises a healthy blend of risk core geological plays which are Salt Basins, Stratigraphic profiles.
Low risk, high return, prospects are prioritised Traps, Rift Basins and Fold Belts.
Although Tullow found in the drilling schedule to realise value early.
Higher a rare giant field in Ghana, ever fewer of these exceptional risk prospects are targeted with technologies and traps remain undrilled and many are unavailable as they methodologies which aim to reduce the technical risk are held by the oil majors or national oil companies.
and determine the appropriate level of investment or Tullows niche, therefore, is exploring our core geological portfolio management action.
plays for commercially viable prospects in the scale of Tullow provides challenging professional development a few tens, to a few hundreds, of millions of barrels of oil equivalent.
opportunities for its technical staff.
In doing so, we are able to attract, retain and inspire world-class The upper end of this scale represents a rich set of exploration talent.
Our explorationists are opportunities for Tullow, and the Group is particularly fundamentally prospectors and deploy leading well skilled and organised to meet the challenge edge seismic and other physical technologies of continuing to grow through exploration.
in their quest to discover oil and gas.
Our global exploration leadership team assures technical quality, portfolio high-grading and financial discipline.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
