Directors report: Business review Operations review: South America Tullow made steady progress in South America in 2007 with the integration of the Hardman portfolio, the pursuit of new business opportunities and preparation for drilling the high impact Matamata prospect in 2008.
2007 Statistics Trinidad & Tobago 5 Licences Suriname French Guiana 3 Successful wells 5 Wells drilled 5 million Capital investment Falkland Islands For more information visit www.
com Activities by country Country Activities Falkland Islands French Guiana Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Note: Tullow withdrew from the Falkland Islands in August 2007.
Key: Exploration Development Production 32 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2007 Highlights Suriname Successful bidder in two key PSCs for the onshore Uitkijk and Trinidad and Tobago blocks: Coronie blocks were formally executed Onebillion in February 2007.
The blocks have Execution of Production Sharing The high impact Matamata well a total area of 3,351 sq km and lie Contracts PSCs for two onshore in French Guiana is planned for adjacent to the countrys main Suriname blocks: 2008 and has a one billion barrel producing oil field, Tambaredjo.
Five exploration wells drilled in Exploration drilling in the Uitkijk Block Suriname, three encountering oil: commenced in July, and a five well drilling CSEM survey over the large campaign was completed during July New ventures Matamata prospect: and and August.
Oil was encountered in three The Group has assessed a number of new of the wells.
The commercial viability opportunities over the course of the year.
Divestment of the non-core and the forward programme for these In doing so, Tullow has pre-qualified as Falkland Islands assets.
prospects are currently being evaluated.
a deep-water operator for Brazils Ninth Exploration Round and is also currently Market environment Trinidad and Tobago evaluating data for possible participation Tullow gained its interests in French In 2007, Tullow was the successful bidder in the forthcoming Barbados bid round.
Guiana, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago for two blocks in the Sixth Trinidad and the Falkland Islands through the Exploration Licensing Round and was 2008 Outlook Hardman Resources acquisition.
The awarded offshore Block 2 ab and the 2008 will be an exciting year for the region is a prolific but underexplored oil onshore Guayaguayare Block.
Commercial Groups South American business as it and gas province with a diverse set of negotiations for PSCs for both blocks are looks to expand through new ventures, opportunities from near-infrastructure in progress.
It is anticipated that portfolio management, licence rounds plays in Suriname to true wildcat high negotiations will complete in the first half and exploration.
The key areas of interest impact prospects in French Guiana.
The of 2008 and that initial seismic acquisition this year will be the drilling of the high region is recognised as having great will commence at the beginning of 2009. impact Matamata prospect, the potential and Tullow is now applying its completion of the Trinidad PSC skills and expertise, developed through Offshore Block 2 ab, is approximately negotiations and potential entry into new many years of exploration in West Africa, to 1,600 sq km in area and lies in shallow South American oil and gas provinces.
these very similar plays across the Atlantic.
water off the east coast of Trinidad and is on trend with a number of producing oil French Guiana and gas fields, notably BHP Billitons Tullow holds a 77.5% interest in the Angostura development.
Tullow, as extensive 35,200 sq km Guyane Maritime operator, jointly bid with Centrica to each licence which covers all of the prospective gain a 32.5% interest in the block.
The acreage offshore French Guiana.
The remaining working interest will be held licence is in a proven hydrocarbon basin by the state oil company, Petrotrin.
but is underexplored with only two wells The 1,192 sq km Guayaguayare Block, drilled to date, the most recent in 1978. contains both onshore and offshore Since 2001, 2D and 3D seismic data have areas and lies in the southeast of been acquired along with the reprocessing Trinidad adjacent to a number of of existing 2D seismic.
This new data has producing oil fields.
Tullow bid alone highlighted the presence of a very large on this block and will likely consider structural prospect, Matamata, along farming out a portion of the interest with numerous additional structural prior to any major investment.
Falkland Islands The Matamata prospect is an At the beginning of 2007, Tullow held Albian prospect, in a water depth of a 22.5% interest in seven offshore 1,200 metres, with upside potential of production licences covering up to a billion barrels.
At the end of approximately 14,500 sq km to the south 2007, Gaz fide France executed a Control and east of the Falkland Islands.
The Source Electromagnetic CSEM survey outstanding Phase I work commitments over the structure and Tullow, as 2D seismic acquisition and a sea-bed Operator, is now advancing plans for logging survey were completed during first exploration drilling in the latter part the first part of the year, but in light of of 2008.
Tullow is also looking to reduce the non-core nature of these assets, its capital exposure on this forthcoming and potential major forward drilling deep-water well and will most likely farm expenditures, Tullow transferred its down its interest in this licence before the interests in all seven licences to the well is drilled.
operator, Falklands Oil and Gas Ltd. Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
