Operations review: Africa case study Meeting the challenge of long-term growth Inside remote operating vehicle ROV control cabin on the Belford Dolphin offshore Ghana World-class discovery in Ghana Since the late 1990s, through our interest in the Espoir field, Tullow has had an interest in the West Africa Transform Margin, the geological trend that extends from Cte dIvoire to Ghana.
To exploit our geological knowledge and expertise in the region, Tullow has expanded its interests there, acquiring interests in eight licences over the last three years.
Through opportunistic transactions with both the government and partners in adjacent blocks, three licences were acquired in Ghana during 2006.
The three blocks contained both marginal discoveries and acreage with significant exploration potential.
The Mahogany prospect, a stratigraphic trap, had been identified on the existing 3D seismic data and was the first prospect to be drilled.
Stratigraphic traps are subtle, have considerable upside potential and are not as intensely explored for as structural traps.
They are not easy to identify and they require a determined effort to target.
A strong track record from exploration in Europe, Africa and South Asia and our integrated approach give Tullow the confidence to tackle these significant exploration opportunities which are one of our core plays.
By applying our expertise in stratigraphic traps, integrating both continental scale, regional geology and detailed local geological knowledge, the Mahogany and Hyedua prospects stood out as strong candidates for drilling and resulted in the Jubilee discovery in 2007.
Appraisal and development work has already commenced on the field and a parallel appraisal programme is under way to determine its significant upside potential.
The same skills applied during the discovery of Jubilee are now being applied to the rest of the West Africa Transform Margin where further upside potential exists.
This work has already yielded a success with the Odum discovery, another stratigraphic trap in a new play fairway.
Drilling on additional prospects such as Teak and Tweneboa is planned for the next 12 months.
Our success in Ghana arose through the focused application of geological expertise, proactive business development and strong working relationships with government and partners.
We expect this success to result in first production from the Jubilee field in 2010, a significant step for Tullow that will make a major contribution to the Ghanaian economy.
Jubilee field recoverable reserves potential P90 170 million barrels P50 480 million barrels P10 1,380 million barrels Previous page: Rig worker attaching riser tensioner wires on drillship offshore Ghana This page: Belford Dolphin drillship on location at Mahogany-1 well offshore Ghana 18 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Directors report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued Mauritania and Senegal Onal and Ebouri, expected to come on well.
However, interpretation of wireline stream, offsetting natural decline on the logs and data from cores indicated Tullows completion of the acquisition of Hardman Resources in early 2007 existing fields and thereby sustaining that the reservoir would not flow at provided the Group with exposure to average production above 14,000 bopd.
commercial rates and the well was eight licences including the producing plugged and abandoned.
On the onshore Niungo field, a five well Chinguetti field.
development drilling programme was The result of the Kudu-8 well was a Chinguetti field production declined completed in March 2007.
The field disappointment for both Tullow and its gradually through the year to approximately averaged 5,400 bopd net to Tullow for the partners in the project.
Although more 12,000 bopd gross by year-end.
This was year and potential for further infill drilling technical work is required to determine well below expectations and, following a is currently being evaluated.
the most appropriate future work review of reservoir performance, ultimate programme, we remain committed to The offshore Tchatamba field is the Kudu project and optimistic as to recoverable reserves have been significant for Tullow, yielding an average significantly downgraded.
the potential for additional gas to be of 5,200 bopd net to the Group in 2007 and discovered in the region.
The 2007 work programme included plans are in place to improve field uptime the drilling of the C-18 infill well at the and enhance production in 2008.
Angola beginning of the year and interpretation In the Etame field area the Avouma Seismic reprocessing of data from Block of data from the high density 3D and 4D 1 06, offshore Angola, is in progress using satellite field came on stream in seismic surveys conducted in March.
January 2007 and is currently producing the latest technology.
This exercise will Utilising this data, work is now planned assist in the appraisal of the existing at 10,000 bopd.
FPSO modifications and to commence in April 2008 to drill at least the addition of production from the Ebouri Pitangueira and Bananeira discoveries two new infill wells and to undertake and will be instrumental in locating the satellite field should increase gross remedial work which should increase oil production from the Etame area, from first two wells to be drilled in early 2009. production in existing wells.
During 2007 Tullow has been considering Cameroon In late 2006, Tullow acquired interests in In early 2007, following a comprehensive development options for Banda and other a package of licences comprising three discoveries.
Banda is primarily a gas analysis of the remaining prospectivity producing fields and back-in rights to a in the Ngosso concession offshore discovery with a thin oil rim, and has been further nine licences.
These assets used for disposal of produced gas from Cameroon, Tullow took a decision to performed well through 2007 with the dispose of this asset.
A Sale and Purchase Chinguetti by way of a gas injection well.
Tsiengui, Obangue and Oba fields now Tullow has been investigating several Agreement was signed with the Hungarian accounting for over 1,000 barrels of company MOL in November 2007. approaches for commercialising the gas, Tullows daily production in Gabon and are and plans to drill the first appraisal well expected to be producing approximately 2008 Outlook on the structure in April 2008.
2,000 bopd net to Tullow by the end of 2008.
Tullow plans to invest over 325 million The 2007 exploration work programme in its African business during 2008.
Tullows only exploration well in Gabon focused on the assessment of Tullows in 2007 was MPano-1 in the Nziembou Approximately 35% of this will be spent expanded portfolio covering both on the exploration, appraisal and licence adjacent to the Niungo field.
The Cretaceous and Tertiary plays with the well found excellent quality reservoir but development programme in the Groups aim of selecting prospects for a drilling Ghanaian acreage with the aim of was dry.
An extension of the exploration campaign which commenced in February licence has been requested.
approving a phased field development in 2008 with the Khop well in Block 6.
Activities in Uganda will focus on well is targeting Cretaceous reservoir Namibia accelerated exploration and appraisal intervals, and is potentially more material of the Butiaba area along with project In 2007, Tullow farmed down its interest than the shallower Miocene plays in the Kudu field from 90% to 70% and sanction and the commencement of EPS previously drilled in the region.
development work and the drilling of the drilled a key appraisal well in the east State of the art seismic acquisition and of the Kudu area.
processing will allow Tullow to drill Agreement was reached in April to sell deeper wells targeting these plays.
In Elsewhere in Africa, ongoing seismic a 20% interest in the Kudu gas field to surveys and technical work are likely to 2008 this work includes a 3D seismic Itochu Corporation.
Under the agreement, survey straddling the border between lead to 2009 drilling in Tanzania, Itochu agreed to pay 40% of the cost of Madagascar, Mauritania, Angola and Block 1 in Mauritania and the St. Louis the Kudu-8 appraisal well and to make block in Senegal as well as the Gabon.
2008 production for Africa is further payments conditional on the expected to average approximately reprocessing of seismic data acquired ultimate volume of reserves developed.
42,000 boepd, before accounting for the MBoundi field disposal, which is expected In September, the Kudu-8 appraisal well Gabon was drilled to test the Kudu East reservoir to be completed by mid-year 2008.
Production from Tullows Gabon assets in within the Greater Kudu field area.
The 2007 averaged 14,800 bopd net and is well encountered gas bearing sands that currently over 15,000 bopd.
The outlook were thicker and cleaner than similar for 2008 is positive, with two new fields, sands intersected in the nearby Kudu-5 20 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Uganda Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Operations review: Africa case study Meeting the challenge of successful partnership Hennie Steyn centre at meeting in Kampala ofce, Uganda Billion barrel potential in the Lake Albert Rift Basin Tullow gained an interest in the Lake Albert Rift Basin in 2004 through its acquisition of Energy Africa.
Since 2006, the Group has drilled nine wells, has expanded its exposure to the region with the completion of the acquisition of Hardman Resources and is now in the midst of an extensive exploration campaign.
Lake Albert is located in the north west of Uganda and the remoteness of the region provides many challenges.
Operationally, access to the land-locked region is either by small aircraft or by road, and major supplies are trucked 1,300 km to the site from Kenya.
Commercially, the distance of the acreage from developed world oil markets means that any future development will depend on the discovery of a sufficient reserve base to justify major pipeline and infrastructure investments.
While these create risks, the potential reward is huge as the region has billion barrel potential.
To understand the ultimate potential of the region, it is vital to have a basin-wide approach with cooperation between participants and the Government.
This enables all parties to share knowledge and equipment, coordinate activities in a cost-effective manner and progress an optimal exploration, development and production plan for the region.
Our work in Uganda has been assisted by our geological understanding of other rift basins such as those in India, Madagascar and the UK.
Through this, as well as our support of a specialist study group in Calgary, we have identified rift basins as one of our core play types and are applying our knowledge in our day-to-day operations in and around Lake Albert.
We have made remarkable progress to date.
All wells drilled have found oil, and test results have been outstanding.
Encouraged by this, we have embarked on a major campaign of drilling and seismic acquisition across all of our licences.
Our ultimate objective is to achieve Ugandas first oil production in 2009 through an early production system [EPS] and, ultimately, to establish a long-term business in East Africa.
This will bring major changes to Lake Albert, and in cooperation with local elders and regional authorities, we are already supporting the communities where we work in the areas of education, health, sanitation and lake safety as part of our long-term commitment to the region.
Capital investment in Uganda million 114 2008 67 2007 23 2006 6 2005 0 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120 Actual Forecast Previous page: Operating rig tongs on Ngassa-1 well in Uganda This page: Dan Marlow in discussions with BGP representative during seismic operations in Block 2, Uganda 22 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
