Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Operational review In 2007, Ultra delivered In Ultra sold an increased flight-worthy equipment number of HiPPAG airborne for Boeings 787 compressors to the US Navy aircraft programme in 2007 successful entry into service of Ultras innovative vision system Aircraft & Vehicle Systems for the British Armys new Mastiff armoured vehicle delivered Revenue in Aircraft & Vehicle Systems increased by 6% to to Afghanistan and Iraq in response to an urgent operational 100.0m compared to 93.9m in 2006 and operating profit requirement.
Ultras equipment allows improved usage of the increased 22% to 16.1m 2006: 13.2m.
These results include vehicles in day and night operations.
a contribution from Atkins and BCF Designs, both acquired late in the year.
The divisions order book at the end of the period Information & Power Systems was 181.6m 2006: 176.9m.
Revenue in Information & Power Systems grew by 5% to Revenue growth continued to be driven by the buoyant civil 126.6m compared to 120.5m in the previous year.
Operating aerospace market and by customer-funded development profit was 19.6m 2006: 19.3m.
The order book at the end programmes.
In addition to sales of landing gear computers and of the period had increased by 21% to 133.6m 2006: 110.2m noise cancellation systems for civil aircraft, the division benefited reflecting increased demand for Ultras specialist power control from good sales of specialist equipment for military aircraft equipment for both defence and transit system applications.
programmes, especially the HiPPAG airborne compressor.
There Revenue continued to benefit from strong growth in airport IT was continuing demand for systems and equipment that help systems and increased demand for a range of command & improve the mobility and survivability of armoured vehicles being control systems including specialist border and harbour used in expeditionary operations including specialist hand surveillance.
As predicted, sales in 2007 of Ultras higher margin controls for vehicle-mounted, remotely controlled weapon ADSI systems reduced to a more normal level following the stations in the US.
exceptionally strong demand in 2006 driven by operations in In spite of adverse currency effects and continuing investment Afghanistan and Iraq.
Revenue also benefited from sales of in new aircraft systems, operating profit growth for the specialist electrical power equipment, including high integrity division reflected increased sales of HiPPAG, the benefit of rod control systems that manage the activity levels of Rolls-Royce having integrated Polyflex in 2006 and higher sales of specialist submarine nuclear reactors.
Operating profit grew broadly in line with the revenues of the Highlights of the divisions performance in the year that will division, with the growth achieved by most businesses being underpin continuing growth in future years included: offset by the lower level of profit from ADSI system sales.
In delivery of flightworthy wing ice protection equipment for particular, sales of specialist power equipment and strong Boeings new 787 aircraft together with systems for use in the demand for identity card printers helped this profit growth.
The avionics validation and integration rigs.
Ultras system also Groups continuing focus on cost control contributed to the successfully completed a challenging set of tests that constitute operational performance of several businesses.
a major milestone in the airworthiness qualification process of Features of the divisions performance in the year that will the equipment.
underpin continuing future growth included: delivery of a functioning ice protection system meeting an increased development activity for Rolls-Royce on a replacement interim design standard for the Pratt & Whitney F-135 engine high integrity control and instrumentation system for submarine on the new F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft.
Ultra was also nuclear reactors.
In the year, initial contract cover for the selected in the year to adapt this system to provide ice production phase of the programme was received.
protection for the lift fan that is required for the short take-off, selection by VT Shipbuilding to supply an integrated combat vertical landing variant of the aircraft.
Separately, Ultras and surveillance system for three armed 90m ships with airborne HiPPAG compressor passed the necessary stringent sophisticated radar and electro-optical target tracking and fire environmental qualification tests for its role in the weapons control capabilities for the Trinidad & Tobago government.
ejection systems of the Joint Strike Fighter.
16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Operational review Demand for Ultras trackside In Ultra delivered the SeaFox power equipment for mine disposal system to the Londons transport Royal Navy eet in 2007 infrastructure helped drive the 21% increase in the order book for Information & Power Systems This is Ultras first contract for a modular system that secure communications systems for the UKs Tornado GR4 addresses the growing market for advanced offshore patrol aircraft fleet.
There is potential for a through-life support vessels of this class.
contract for this equipment and for exports to other users of the Tornado aircraft.
significant contract awards for Ultras innovative transit system trackside power solutions.
These included an initial contract to the receipt of a contract from the UK MoD to demonstrate a supply equipment for Londons overground train network new submarine hunting system known as multi-static active which is being upgraded in time for the 2012 Olympics.
which will greatly improve the ability to detect stealthy, small but highly capable submarines.
Ultra is also involved in Tactical & Sonar Systems programmes to improve anti-submarine warfare capabilities in Revenue in Tactical & Sonar Systems increased by 15% to the US.
186.3m 2006: 162.6m and operating profit rose 9% to the award of an initial production contract by the US DoD for 27.2m 2006: 25.0m.
These results include the contributions the KG-40AR cryptographic system which provides encryption from Criticom and Telemus, both acquired mid-year.
The closing for tactical data links used by NATO and coalition forces.
order book of 305.8m 2006: 296.5m reflected strong Further production phases are planned for the KG-40AR, a demand from the US Army for tactical radio systems.
modern replacement for an obsolete system of which many are still in service.
Revenue growth was driven by further sales of airborne targeting pods for UK Tornado aircraft and strong demand for battlespace IT products, notably tactical radios and network interfacing equipment for the US DoD.
In both instances, the need to improve the capability of armed forces in current operations focused customer demand.
Revenue also benefited from initial work on a technology demonstration for a new loitering munition to provide precision attack capability at long range for the British Army.
Delivery of Ultras new sea mine disposal systems to the Royal Navy partially compensated for the reduction in sales of torpedo defence systems as that programme transitioned to its support phase during 2007.
The operating margin reduced following the completion, in 2006, of the production phase of the UK torpedo defence system contract.
Investment continued in 2007 in redesigning Ultras complete range of firefighter voice communications products to ensure compliance with updated national standards that became effective late in the year.
Operating profit benefited from improved margins on sales of sonobuoys from Ultras US business.
The operating margin was also improved by an increase in sales of battlespace IT equipment, especially a new, higher capacity tactical radio for the US Army.
Growth in future years will be underpinned as a result of the following events in 2007: the award of a contract relating to the supply of upgraded see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Chief Executives report
