Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Categories Our brands are household names in many countries around the Health, hygiene and beauty world.
We create products that appeal to peoples different The desire to be clean and healthy and to look good is universal.
preferences, based on our deep understanding of consumers Our home and personal care brands have promoted health, varied habits and lifestyles.
hygiene and beauty since the late 19th century and continue to play a vital role in millions of homes around the world today.
Food and nutrition We aim to provide foods which both taste great and are good for In 2007 our household cleaning business had a particularly you, and, in so doing, become the worlds leading food and successful year, with brands such as Cif and Domestos helping it nutrition business.
From simple soap bars to the most technically advanced concentrated liquids, our laundry brands are also To full our goal, we are systematically improving the nutritional growing fast.
prole of our product range through our Nutrition Enhancement Programme.
By the end of 2007 we had assessed the nutritional In skin care, the Ponds brand went from strength to strength in composition of all our products totalling over 22 000 recipes South East Asia, China and India, powered in part by the launch and removed a further 2 750 tonnes of saturated fat, 170 tonnes of a new anti-ageing range.
Vaseline was our fastest-growing of salt and 5 000 tonnes of sugar.
This is in addition to the global skin brand, with underlying sales growth of more than 8%.
substantial reductions already made by 2006.
Vaseline Cocoa Butter range was its most successful launch in the US in ten years.
The brand also announced the Vaseline Skin We are also committed to ensuring that consumers are able to Fund, which is expected to launch in the UK and the US in 2008 make informed choices when buying our products.
As well as and give 1 million people better access to information about listing nutritional information on the back of packaging, we are managing skin complaints.
implementing the Choices programme, with a front-of-pack stamp that identies products which meet internationally Our deodorant brands also made good progress in 2007, with accepted dietary advice.
In 2007 we continued rolling the Axe and Rexona both achieving double-digit growth.
Rexona is programme out globally together with other food companies, the worlds leading deodorant brand and Axe holds a leading under the auspices of the Choices International Foundation.
This position in male deodorants.
was launched during 2007 and is advised by an independent scientific committee.
The stamp can now be found on products in Oral Care returned to growth in Europe while continuing its more than 50 countries around the world.
See robust performance in Indonesia, China and Africa aided by www.
innovations such as a combined toothpaste and mouthwash.
During the year we announced the extension of our partnership We focus on three key areas of consumer benefit when with the FDI World Dental Federation, which represents more developing new products: functional foods, lighter options, and than 1 million dentists and we work together with the FDI in oral naturalness and authenticity.
For example, in 2007 we developed health promotion and education programmes.
Promise Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added natural plant sterols, ingredients that are clinically proven to help actively Science and technology remove cholesterol as part of a diet low in saturated fat and We are proud of our reputation as a world leader in research and cholesterol.
In 2007 we achieved growth across our categories both through innovation new products and new Meanwhile, Hellmanns Extra Light uses citrus bre to create a mixes and through renovation the strengthening of existing great tasting, very low-fat mayonnaise.
Because of its low-fat brands with new variants, packaging or advertising.
content the product has a higher margin particularly valuable at a time of increasing edible oil costs.
We strive to bring innovations to market more swiftly than ever before.
Following the completion of a major reorganisation of our Lipton Green Tea in the US, Lipton Linea slimming teas in Europe, R&D activities, we have concentrated research and development and Lipton Milk Teas in Asia all ourished by exploiting teas in global and regional centres in order to make the very best use credentials as a healthy beverage.
And a new range of restaurantof our resources and create centres which are innovation quality frozen meals from Bertolli, which are packed with fresh powerhouses.
We are also increasingly working on fewer, larger vegetables and ready to eat in minutes, was a hit with North scale projects, having carefully chosen those that we think will American consumers.
deliver the most value to the business either in terms of product sales or margin improvements.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Categories continued Recent developments include Amaze Brainfood a range of The Family Goodness spreads brand is raising funds as part of our nutritious snacks and drinks that are specically designed to three-year partnership with the World Food Programme WFP to support mental development in children.
The 2006 launch was provide nutritious school meals for children living in poverty.
We the result of a 40 million, four-year R&D project.
Already selling are also sharing our nutrition and hygiene expertise and helping well in Turkey, Amaze is expected to launch in India in 2008.
WFP develop a school education campaign as well as review the need for fortied foods.
We have also developed a breakthrough technology that includes the use of Ice Structuring Proteins ISP in ice cream.
This enables Meanwhile, a major healthy eating campaign, Knorr Eat Colour, a wide range of ice cream innovations, including signicantly encouraged consumers to eat colourful vegetables, with the help healthier options and better quality ice cream.
Ice creams that of a range of new colour-themed products.
The campaign was contain ISP are available in a number of countries in the Americas based on the insight that vegetables bright hues indicate the and Asia Africa regions.
For Europe, regulatory approval is being presence of different beneficial antioxidants.
sought under the EC Novel Foods Regulation.
The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty made strides in its mission to In the kitchen, new Sunlight hand dishwashing liquid keeps raise the self-esteem of women.
By the end of 2008 the Dove working on the sponge for longer because it turns to gel on Self-Esteem Fund aims to have reached 1 million young girls in 20 contact with water.
Its ultra-concentrated formula uses less water countries through partnerships with organisations such as the in the production process and less packaging.
It is being rolled out Eating Disorders Association and Girl Scouts of America.
Sales of in eight countries.
And the environmentally friendly lightweight Dove products are growing rapidly.
design and fast-drying formulation of our new roll-on deodorant, launched under the Rexona, Axe and Dove brands, also proved Our Dirt is Good positioning which is used across countries on popular with consumers.
our main brands including Persil, Omo and Skip is also ourishing.
It promotes childrens learning and development This year also saw the simultaneous launch in a number of through physical activity while the brands innovative countries of Clear anti-dandruff shampoo with superior antiformulations mean parents dont need to worry about getting dandruff active delivery technology.
Its formulation is based on their childrens clothes clean after outdoor play.
one common chassis with add-on renements for different scalp and hair types.
Other highlights in 2007 Unilever took a historic step in 2007 when it committed to buying Brands with missions all its tea from sustainable, ethical sources transforming the tea Our brands have the power to change peoples lives for the industry and improving the crops, income and livelihood of 2 better.
million people across three continents.
Lipton, the worlds largest tea brand, and PG Tips, one of the UKs leading brands, became The second-biggest preventable killer of children in the world is the first to carry the Rainforest Alliance logo, showing they meet diarrhoea, and yet simple hand-washing with soap can cut the independent organisations strict sustainability criteria diarrhoeal diseases signicantly.
In 2007, in partnership with covering areas such as wildlife protection, water conservation and UNICEF, we piloted an education programme for schoolchildren in fair treatment of workers.
The first certied tea was supplied to Uganda highlighting the importance of hand-washing with soap, restaurants and the catering trade in Europe: all Lipton tea bags underpinned by our soap brand Lifebuoy.
Coupled with this, the sold globally are expected to be certied by 2015.
Unilever Marketing Academy helped develop health promotion campaigns in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
During the year the One of our top priorities in 2007 was the simultaneous launch of brand grew by 9%.
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo in a number of countries China, Russia, Brazil three of the biggest hair care markets in the world, Throughout the year, our Goodness of Margarine campaign the Philippines, Pakistan, Egypt and Arabia.
The brand has an spread the message in Europe that margarine contains essential innovative formula with superior anti-dandruff active delivery fats and vitamins helpful in maintaining a healthy heart.
The technology and is our first major Asian hair brand mix to go results were excellent and the campaign is rolling out further in global.
Its success shows the power of a centralised, consistent 2008. global approach to packaging, formulation and marketing.
Clear shampoo is now winning consumer preference in all its markets and there are plans to consolidate growth while continuing its global roll-out in 2008.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Categories continued Magnum Temptation ice cream offered European consumers the The newly launched Dove pro age range proved popular among ultimate indulgence: a sensual shape containing Madagascan women aged 50 and over in North America and Europe.
The vanilla ice cream, caramel sauce and almond pieces, wrapped in multimedia campaign, shot by top celebrity photographer Annie Belgian dark chocolate.
It has the highest quantity of added Leibovitz, featured middle-aged women looking natural, gorgeous extras ever contained in a Magnum, thanks to new technology and completely naked.
The pro age range does not make which involves bringing together two mould halves around the unrealistic anti-ageing promises, but instead meets the specic stick.
Launched in Italy, Spain, Switzerland and Portugal, Magnum hair and skin care needs of older consumers.
Temptation is the first expression of the brands long-term super premium platform.
In Chinese households soup is a part of many peoples daily diet.
Knorr Bouillon Gel, launched in China under the Knorr Dense European consumers were given a powerful new weapon in the Soup Treasure name, captured the imagination of consumers ght against limescale and germs, with the launch of Domestos eager to replicate the nutritional benets of home-boiled soup Zero Limescale bleach.
Its development was inspired by research without the hassle.
Made with high-quality fresh ingredients, the showing that many more germs are present in toilets with gel reverts to dense-textured soup when stirred into boiling water, limescale because germs cluster there, protecting themselves from into which consumers can add their own choice of fresh being washed away.
Its three-times-thicker formulation helps vegetables.
Domestos Zero Limescale bleach stick to and destroy limescale, even on vertical surfaces.
Axe Lynx, the worlds second-largest deodorant brand, made a triumphant entry into the Japanese market and quickly became Mayonnaise lovers in Latin America responded enthusiastically to the countrys top-selling male deodorant.
The launch followed an a campaign highlighting the health benets of Hellmanns Light, a extensive study of the young Japanese male, examining his variant of global leader Hellmanns.
The campaign, aired in attitude towards dating, use of deodorants and purchasing habits.
Argentina, Chile and Brazil, made consumers aware that three The brands range was given a substantial makeover in 2007 to spoonfuls of Hellmanns Light mayonnaise contain the same ensure packaging and formulations are consistent the world over.
calories as one spoonful of olive oil.
Underlying sales growth for the year was outstanding, particularly in Argentina and Brazil.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
