Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Regions Basis of reporting The region sustained its improving trend in 2007 with underlying In this Operating Review we comment on our changes in revenue sales growth of 2.8% for the year.
The improvement was driven on the basis of underlying sales growth USG.
This measure by relentless focus on better in-market execution, rejuvenation of reects the change in revenue at constant rates of exchange, the quality and value of our core products, and an introduction of average exchange rates for the preceding year excluding the new innovations.
Consumer demand in our categories was steady effects of acquisitions and disposals.
It is a measure that provides throughout the year.
valuable additional information on the underlying performance of the business.
In particular, it presents the organic growth of Overall we saw improving trends almost everywhere.
Russia was our business year on year and is used internally as a core measure the outstanding performer, but all major countries grew in the of sales performance.
year, including the UK, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.
In France sales were slightly up in a challenging market.
USG is not a measure which is dened under IFRS.
It should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial The operating margin, at 11.0% for the year, reects a higher net information presented in compliance with IFRS.
This measure as charge for restructuring, disposals and one-off items compared reported by us may not be comparable with similarly titled with 2006.
Before these items, the operating margin showed an measures reported by other companies.
underlying improvement of 0.9 percentage points, driven by lower overheads as a result of the One Unilever programme and The reconciliation of USG to changes in turnover for each of our reduced advertising and promotions costs.
reporting regions is given in the following section, and for the Group in total on page 32.
We made substantial progress with portfolio development and restructuring.
The reporting in this section is based on results for continuing operations.
Information about discontinued operations is given in At the start of 2008 we completed the expansion of the note 27 on page 114. successful international partnership for Lipton ready-to-drink tea with PepsiCo to include all countries in Europe.
We also Europe completed the sale of Boursin, and announced the acquisition of the leading Russian ice cream company Inmarko.
2007 compared with 2006 million million We formed four new multi-country organisations and announced 2007 2006 the streamlining or closure of ten factories.
The roll-out of a single Turnover 15 205 15 000 SAP system across the region continues, with two-thirds of Operating profit 1 678 1 903 turnover in the region now on stream and full implementation Operating margin 11.0% 12.7% expected to be largely completed by the end of 2008.
Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges and one-time gain 2006 on UK pension We continued to target innovations mainly at Vitality plans included in operating margin 4.0 % 1.4 % opportunities.
In ice cream, we introduced Frus frozen yoghurt % with wholegrain cereals and real fruit pieces and low calorie Underlying sales growth at constant rates 2.8 Solero smoothies.
Lipton Linea slimming teas were launched in Effect of acquisitions 0.0 France, Switzerland and Portugal.
Growth in Hellmanns was Effect of disposals 1.5 Effect of exchange rates 0.0 boosted by new extra light mayonnaise with citrus bre Turnover growth at current rates 1.4 technology.
% The new Dove pro age range of products is building well in Operating profit 2007 vs 2006 Europe as well as elsewhere, and Dove Summer Glow self-tanning Change at current rates 11.9 Change at constant rates 11.7 and body lotions are now available in most countries.
Clear antidandruff shampoo was launched in Russia, with good consumer response.
Small & Mighty concentrated liquid laundry detergents Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 1.4%, after the were launched in seven European countries.
impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set out in the table above.
Operating profit at current rates of exchange fell by 11.9%, after including an adverse currency movement of 0.2%.
The underlying performance of the business after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at constant exchange rates.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Regions continued Europe continued A range of Knorr bouillon cubes with selected natural ingredients and a better, richer taste was rolled out across the region, while 2006 compared with 2005 Knorr Vie one-shot fruit and vegetable products became available million million in 12 countries.
Meanwhile, Latin Americas AdeS drink, a healthy 2006 2005 blend of fruit juices and soya, was launched successfully in the UK Turnover 15 000 14 940 as AdeZ.
Operating profit 1 903 2 064 Operating margin 12.7% 13.8% Product launches with clear functional or emotional benets in Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges Home and Personal Care brands were rolled out rapidly across the and one-time gain 2006 on UK pension region.
A range of new Dove launches included the moisturising plans included in operating margin 1.4 % 0.9 % self-tan Dove Summer Glow.
Meanwhile in household care, we % introduced Domestos 5x which continues to kill germs even after Underlying sales growth at constant rates 1.0 several ushes and the cleaning power of Cif was applied to a Effect of acquisitions 0.1 series of power sprays.
Effect of disposals 0.9 Effect of exchange rates 0.2 Turnover growth at current rates 0.4 The operating margin, at 12.7%, was 1.1 percentage points lower than in 2005, with higher net costs for restructuring, % disposals and impairments, partially offset by a one-time gain of Operating profit 2006 vs 2005 120 million from changes to the UK pensions plan.
Before these Change at current rates 7.7 Change at constant rates 7.9 items, the operating margin would have been 0.6 percentage points lower than in 2005.
Margins in Foods were lower than in 2005 as we absorbed significant increases in commodity costs Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 0.4%, after the which were only partly compensated by savings programmes.
Operating profit at current rates of The Americas exchange fell by 7.7%, after including a favourable currency movement of 0.2%.
The underlying performance of the business 2007 compared with 2006 after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the million million impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at 2007 2006 constant exchange rates.
Turnover 13 442 13 779 Operating profit 1 971 2 178 The UK, our largest European business, returned to growth in Operating margin 14.7% 15.8% the year with good results across several foods and personal care Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges and one-time gain 2006 on US healthcare ranges.
Although laundry sales declined, there were promising plans included in operating margin 0.7 % 0.0% signs of progress in market share with Persil regaining its position as the countrys leading laundry brand.
The Netherlands had a % strong year.
A pioneer of One Unilever, it benefited from Underlying sales growth at constant rates 4.1 Effect of acquisitions 0.1 operating as a single company.
Highlights were rapid growth for Effect of disposals 0.6 Lipton, Dove, Rexona and Axe.
France remained a difficult market Effect of exchange rates 5.8 with sales lower in spreads, laundry and hair care.
New Turnover growth at current rates 2.4 management was put in place and there was an improvement in the second half of the year.
Sales in Germany held up better in % Operating profit 2007 vs 2006 2006.
There was good growth for personal care brands but some Change at current rates 9.5 turnover in Lipton ice tea was lost following changes in rules for Change at constant rates 3.4 bottle returns.
Central and Eastern Europe continued to do well, driven by double-digit growth in Russia.
Turnover at current rates of exchange fell by 2.4%, after the The sale of the majority of our European frozen foods businesses impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set to Permira was successfully completed during the year.
Operating profit at current rates of exchange fell by 9.5%, after including an adverse currency Our 2006 innovation programmes resulted in our Foods brands movement of 6.1%.
The underlying performance of the business wholeheartedly embracing the concept of Vitality, with new after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the products designed to deliver the health benets that consumers impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at seek.
spreads with added nutrients which constant exchange rates.
are beneficial to childrens mental development was launched in 2006.
16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Regions continued The Americas continued 2006 compared with 2005 million million 2006 2005 Underlying sales grew by 4.1% in the year, with an increasing contribution from pricing which was up 2.6% for the year.
Turnover 13 779 13 179 Operating profit 2 178 1 719 Operating margin 15.8% 13.0% In the US, overall consumer demand held up well in our Restructuring, business disposals, impairment charges categories.
Market growth in home care and personal care slowed and one-time gain 2006 on US healthcare somewhat in the second half year, but this was compensated for plans included in operating margin 0.0% 3.4 % by robust demand in foods.
Our own sales in the US grew solidly, % up 3.2% for the year, despite lower sales of ice cream.
Underlying sales growth at constant rates 3.7 Effect of acquisitions 0.1 Our business in Mexico made good progress in the second half of Effect of disposals 0.7 the year and Brazil showed an improved performance in the Effect of exchange rates 1.4 Turnover growth at current rates 4.6 fourth quarter.
Argentina, Andina and Central America performed well throughout.
% Operating profit 2006 vs 2005 The operating margin, at 14.7% for the year, was 1.1 percentage Change at current rates 26.7 Change at constant rates 25.0 points lower than the previous year.
Before the impact of restructuring, disposals and one-off items, the margin was 0.4 percentage points lower than last year.
This was due to an Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 4.6%, after the increase in advertising and promotions and the impact of impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as substantial cost increases, which have not yet been fully offset by set out in the table above.
Operating profit at current rates of price increases and savings programmes.
exchange rose by 26.7%, after including a favourable currency movement of 1.4%.
The underlying performance of the business The One Unilever programme is simplifying operations throughout after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the the region.
Argentina, Mexico and Brazil all moved to single head impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at ofces in 2007, while the US will follow in early 2008.
Sales force constant exchange rates.
integration is under way in a number of countries.
A single SAP system has been implemented in the US, with Latin America Sales in Brazil picked up well after a slow start, with very good already on one system.
innovation-driven performances in hair, deodorants and laundry.
Omos brand share was at its highest level for many years.
We set up a joint venture with Perdigo to develop our hearthealth margarine Becel in Brazil and disposed of our local Brazilian Sales in Mexico were lower for the year, affected by a combination margarine brands.
We also announced an agreement for the of a decline in the traditional retail trade and local low-priced disposal of Lawrys seasonings, while the sale process of the North competition.
In addition, there were several operational issues American laundry business is under way.
which have since been addressed.
The business returned to growth in the fourth quarter.
Elsewhere there was good growth in New varieties of Knorr bouillons and soups in Latin America Argentina, Central America and Venezuela.
Taken together, sales in further advanced the brands Vitality credentials.
Hellmanns real Latin America were ahead by 5.8% with Home and Personal Care campaign highlights its simple ingredients which are naturally rich brands continuing to do well.
However, there was more modest in Omega 3, in both the US and Latin America.
In the US, we growth in Foods brands due to tough local competition.
introduced Promise Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added natural plant sterols, ingredients that are clinically proven to help New products introduced in the US included Wish-Bone Salad actively remove cholesterol as part of a diet low in saturated fat Spritzers with one calorie per spray, further development of the and cholesterol.
Bertolli premium frozen meal range, and Lipton pyramid tea bags.
Across the region, new Knorr soups and bouillons catered for Innovation in personal care reected the more global approach.
The highly successful AdeS nutritional drink has been Clear anti-dandruff shampoo was successfully launched in Brazil, extended with a light variant, new fruit avours and the launch while the Dove pro age range of skin care, deodorants and of soymilk in Brazil and Mexico.
shampoos was introduced in the US at the same time as in Europe.
In laundry, the Dirt is Good platform continued to build We strengthened our hair portfolio with the launch of Sunsilk, across Latin America, now including a variant with built-in fabric improved both the Suave and Dove haircare lines and sold the softener.
We had a good sales response to Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Regions continued The Americas continued Growth was consistent throughout the year and was broad-based across categories and countries, including established markets all Small & Mighty concentrated liquid detergents.
These use such as India, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Africa and Turkey, reduced-size packaging to save water, cardboard and energy in which all grew in double digits: significant product areas such as production, packaging and transport.
They are also easier for laundry and personal wash: and emerging product areas like ice consumers to carry, pour and store.
We then applied all Small & cream and deodorants.
China remains a key priority and grew Mightys product technology to fabric conditioners, creating strongly for the third consecutive year.
Snuggle Exhilarations a three-times more concentrated premium sub-range delivering superior fragrance.
In Brazil, Omo has been We drove growth across all income levels, from highly affordable further strengthened with a new top-performance product packs to premium positions.
This was supported by new brands including baby and foam control variants.
and products that leveraged our global platforms and excellent inmarket execution.
The operating margin, at 15.8%, was 2.8 percentage points higher than in 2005.
There were lower costs for restructuring, The operating margin, at 13.8%, was 1.6 percentage points disposals and impairments, and a one-time benefit in 2006 of higher than last year.
This included the 214 million accounting 146 million from changes to US healthcare plans.
In 2005 there profit resulting from the reorganisation of our shareholdings in was a gain on the sale of an ofce.
Before these items the South Africa.
Before the effects of this transaction, disposals and operating margin would have been 0.3 percentage points lower restructuring charges, the operating margin showed an underlying than the previous year.
Innovation-driven marketing mix, pricing increase of 0.2 percentage points.
The improvement was driven and productivity offset high commodity costs.
Advertising and by volume growth, pricing actions and savings programmes which promotions were increased to support major brand launches.
more than offset higher input costs and increased advertising and promotions.
Asia Africa We announced the acquisition of the Buavita brand of fruit-based 2007 compared with 2006 vitality drinks in Indonesia, which was completed early in January million million 2008.
2007 2006 Turnover 11 540 10 863 As part of the One Unilever programme we now have a single Operating profit 1 596 1 327 SAP system in place in four countries as the basis for a common Operating margin 13.8% 12.2% regional platform, while the reorganisation of our shareholdings Restructuring, business disposals and impairment in South Africa and Israel facilitates the new organisation.
charges included in operating margin 1.1% 0.3 % % The new, more global, approach to innovation was evident in the Underlying sales growth at constant rates 11.1 2007 programme.
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo was launched in Effect of acquisitions 0.1 China, Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and the Philippines.
In Japan, we Effect of disposals 0.4 launched the Axe brand and Dove pro age skin care products.
An Effect of exchange rates 4.0 Turnover growth at current rates 6.2 improved range of Dove shower products was extended to North East Asia, while Lifebuoy soap was launched in South Africa and a % new variant brought to India.
In laundry, the new Dirt is Good Operating profit 2007 vs 2006 product, packaging and communication were introduced to Change at current rates 20.2 Thailand.
Change at constant rates 27.6 The Moo range of ice creams was extended throughout the Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 6.2%, after the region.
Knorr seasonings were rejuvenated with premium impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as set ingredients, as in Europe, and in China we launched a new form out in the table above.
Operating profit at current rates of of Knorr bouillons for preparing thick soups.
At the same time exchange rose by 20.2%, after including an adverse currency new, more affordable, tubs and sachets are attracting new users movement of 7.4%.
The underlying performance of the business of spreads in several countries.
after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at constant exchange rates.
The strong underlying growth of 11.1% for the year reects both the vibrancy of these markets and the high priority we place on building our business in the region.
It includes a healthy balance of volume and price, up by over 7% and 3% respectively.
18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Operating Review Regions continued Australia experienced a much improved performance with share Asia Africa continued gains in a number of areas.
In Japan, Lux Super Rich the leading brand performed well despite a major brand launch by a 2006 compared with 2005 million million competitor.
However, Dove and Mods lost share.
2006 2005 Savoury, ice cream, laundry and household care brands were the Turnover 10 863 10 282 Operating profit 1 327 1 291 main drivers of strong growth in Turkey, while sales in Arabia Operating margin 12.2% 12.6% were well ahead.
Restructuring, business disposals and impairment charges included in operating margin 0.3 % 0.0% In South Africa, aggressive price promotions by a local competitor have reduced laundry sales, but there were strong growth and % Underlying sales growth at constant rates 7.7 share gains in Foods.
Effect of acquisitions 0.0 Effect of disposals 0.8 Innovation was increasingly driven globally and regionally, rather Effect of exchange rates 1.1 than locally.
The new Sunsilk range was introduced in most major Turnover growth at current rates 5.7 markets, and in laundry the Dirt is Good positioning was % established across the region.
Ponds Age Miracle, incorporating Operating profit 2006 vs 2005 unique technology and designed specically for Asian skin, was Change at current rates 2.8 launched in four countries.
Meanwhile the latest global Axe Lynx Change at constant rates 4.0 fragrance, Click, was introduced in Australia and New Zealand.
Turnover at current rates of exchange rose by 5.7%, after the As in the rest of the world, the Foods innovation programme impact of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate changes as focused on Vitality.
Moo, a wholesome childrens ice cream range set out in the table above.
Operating profit at current rates of based on the goodness of milk, was very well received by mothers exchange rose by 2.8%, after including an adverse currency and children alike and proved successful in South East Asia.
The underlying performance of the business Healthy green tea innovations were rolled out extensively, while in after eliminating these exchange translation effects and the South Africa marketing for Rama margarine now communicates impact of acquisitions and disposals is discussed below at the products healthy oils.
Addressing the needs of lower income constant exchange rates.
consumers, low-priced Knorr stock cubes already successful in Latin America were also introduced in the region.
Markets remained buoyant in most of the key countries though there was a slowdown in consumer spending in Thailand.
The operating margin at 12.2% was 0.4 percentage points lower Underlying sales growth of 7.7% was broadly based and our than in 2005.
Before the impact of restructuring, disposals and aggregate market shares remained stable.
impairments, the operating margin would have been in line with the previous year.
The benets to margin of strong volume India grew well across major sectors.
A mix of global, regional growth and savings programmes were fully offset by higher and local brands drove growth, notably Wheel and Surf Excel in commodity costs and other cost ination which could not be fully laundry, and Clinic in haircare.
A second year of excellent growth recovered in pricing.
in China stemmed from a combination of market growth, better distribution and innovations behind global brands such as Omo, Lux and Ponds, as well as the local toothpaste brand, Zhonghua.
Indonesia sustained good momentum, not only in the large Home and Personal Care ranges but also in Foods as a result of strong performances in ice cream and savoury.
Thailand had a disappointing year through weak demand and intense competition.
A major programme of activities was undertaken to correct this.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
