Operational Review Engineering Products: includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls operations which collectively substantially grew their input, revenue and profits when compared to last year.
Operating profit m 100 80 60 40 Operating profit Revenue Order Input 20 98.7m 711.6m 760.7m Up 70% Up 35% Up 30% 2006 2007 Mining 2007 input 359.8m Engineering Products mining related activities represented 47% of the divisions total 2007 input and grew 26% when compared to 2006.
Basic commodities - coal, alumina, copper, iron ore, platinum and gold prices - maintained historically high levels during the year.
These conditions continued to call for an increased volume of new equipment and a resultant increase in spares and service work to support the increased installed base.
Oil & Gas 2007 input 167.7m The divisions oil & gas related activities represented 22% of the divisions total 2007 input and grew 50% when compared to the prior year.
Oil prices have recently achieved all-time highs after rising steadily during 2007, resulting in buoyant upstream and downstream market conditions in the year.
Weir SPMs input is largely related to onshore gas where United States storage levels, gas prices and unconventional drilling rates dictate demand.
In the year ahead we are expecting further growth in downstream opportunities, particularly in the Middle East.
While we may see less favourable market conditions, the recent cold weather and stronger gas prices in North America are positive indications for our upstream activities.
Power & Industrial 2007 Input 197.0m The combined Power and Industrial activities represented 26% of the divisions total 2007 input and grew 26% when compared to the prior year.
Power related input increased 32% to 110.9m with new work secured in nuclear, conventional power and flue gas desulphurisation areas of the market.
The outlook remains positive with significant new project and facility upgrade opportunities being planned across all of our core markets.
The divisions industrial activities involve the supply of Group related products and services.
The markets for these products are industrial and consumer related where general economic conditions directly affect the state of the market.
Continued strong conditions are expected in the Indo Pacific and South America with more moderate growth in the UK and Europe.
Our USA activities are largely utilities and infrastructure related and continued high levels of spend are forecast in the year ahead.
9 9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Minerals: 2007 was a year of commercial success and operational improvements for Weir Minerals.
We are looking forward to a buoyant 2008 and are excited about strengthening our geographical and market position and our ability to support our customers in both the near and long-term future.
500 400 300 Our brands 200 Order input Warman Isogate 100 Geho Vulco 491.2m 2006 2007 Up 28% Cavex Operational review Case Study 2007 was characterised by the continued strong performance of the Weir Minerals Netherlands wins record order for worlds minerals processing market worldwide and recent investments in capacity longest slurry pipeline coming online.
Weir Minerals Netherlands started 2007 by securing a major order Throughout the year, we continued to align our installed capacity to to supply its largest type pump, the Geho TZPM 2000, for the Brazilian our growing market position with facility improvements underway at our MMX iron ore pipeline project.
This multi-million dollar contract, won operations in Madison, Wisconsin in the United States and in Venlo in the against tough competition, represents the largest order that this Netherlands.
Capacity has increased in all of our rubber shops and the foundries business has ever received.
established in China and South Africa in 2006 have both come fully online.
The project involves creating a 550km long pipeline that will transport Our Chinese and Indian companies are creating solid positions in their 26.6 million tonnes of iron ore as slurry to the Port of Acu.
Here, a pellet domestic markets at the same time developing low cost supply to support plant will be built before the product is processed for shipping to steel the rest of the division.
Our purchasing group also continued to make plants around the world.
progress in its low cost sourcing initiative.
In addition to servicing the local The 24-inch diameter pipeline will be the longest and highest capacity market, the Chinese foundry is supplying products competitively around slurry pipeline in the world.
Customer savings for transporting iron ore the world while the Indian company has grown its engineering service through this pipeline rather than using conventional systems, such activities tenfold in the last two years.
as railway transportation, are estimated to be US$6 per dry tonne.
Our success in 2007 was underpinned by a solid commitment to human The Geho positive displacement pumps will be installed in two pump resource management.
We have been able to reduce our lost-time accidents stations.
The first will be located at the mine site while another pump by 4% and five of our locations France, the Netherlands, the UK, Russia station will be sited about halfway along the pipeline.
and India have completed the year without a single accident.
Succession planning is now in place for the vast majority of our employees and we The pumps will develop pressures up to 206 bar to transport the heavy have made further investment into apprenticeship and executive training iron ore slurry through the pipeline.
The Geho pumps were selected programmes in all of our operating regions.
In a strong and buoyant due to the high pump quality and reliability which has been proven market, we are focused on providing Weir employees with the extensive in operation under similar conditions in pipeline systems all over the training and opportunities to ensure that Weir Minerals is strong going world.
Deliveries began at the start of the year and will continue into 2008 and through the next generation.
The pipeline is scheduled for commercial operation in July 2009.
During the year, we identified services best practice throughout the division and the Group.
We have established a tailored Lean assessment with significant help from Weir Services and all of our service companies have implemented this into their businesses.
We have also established our Hazleton service centre in Pennsylvania in the United States as a world class centre of excellence and we expect our remaining service centres to reach similar levels of operational excellence in 2008.
Our development activities continue to strengthen with real progress in our Design Centre of Origin development process, which allows input and ideas to come from all of our operating companies.
We currently have Design Centres in Brazil, Chile, the United States, South Africa, India and the Netherlands.
These are all coordinated by our Group Technology service, which operates out of Australia.
Geho pumps being installed on the Brazilian pipeline.
For the past two years, our development focus has been to refresh, improve and lower the manufacturing cost of our core product lines and this continues to be our strategy moving into 2008.
We introduced major product initiatives in both 2006 and 2007 and we plan to do the same in 2008 and 2009.
By 2011, the whole Weir Minerals product portfolio will have been refreshed with the benefits of increased wear and durability while lowering overall costs.
We are excited about the enhancements and improvements that we are bringing to our end customers.
10 Operational Review Minerals: specialist businesses delivering and supporting slurry equipment solutions for global mining and mineral processing, the power sector and general industry.
Primary input breakdown Minerals 70.0% Power 13.5% General industrial 12.0% Oil 3.3% Water & wastewater 1.2% Geographic breakdown Americas 46.8% Europe & Former Soviet Union 15.1% Australia 14.6% Middle East & Africa 11.4% Indo Pacific 10.5% Key achievements UK 1.6% Significant facility expansion at Weir Minerals North America in Madison reducing the need for sub-contracting.
Largest-ever valve order received by Weir Minerals North America from Siemens Environmental Services.
Largest order in history of Weir Minerals Netherlands achieved with major award for Geho pumps for the Brazilian MMX pipeline project.
Investment in excellence results in Weir Minerals Hazleton being selected as finalist for Industry Week Best Plants North America 2007.
China facility officially opened in June 2007 with three-shift foundry run rate achieved.
Scot Smith Divisional Managing Director Weir India awarded Indian Manufacturing Gold Award for emerging facilities and gained approval from Indias largest power company to supply slurry pumps locally.
Growth of Weir Minerals South America continues with input up 28%, output up 32% and profit up 35%.
Enhanced apprenticeship and graduate trainee scheme introduced to grow and develop internal skills.
Reductions in Lost Time Accident results, with several plants completing the year without any accidents.
Weir Minerals France awarded major contract for gravel pumps and Isogate valves for a tunneling project in China.
Market review High growth in the Chinese and Indian economies in 2007 fueled Continuing focus across the division on Lean improvements brings a continuation of the super cycle in our industry, with commodity further benefits in capacity and delivery targets.
prices supporting solid market conditions in the minerals processing sector.
While some commodity prices declined throughout the year most still remained at historically high levels.
The strength of commodity prices has continued to support strong growth in new equipment sales through both brownfield and greenfield expansion projects.
This has also underpinned solid growth in aftermarket sales as new projects are brought on-stream.
We fully expect these favourable market conditions to continue into 2008.
Strong demand continued for large flue gas desulphurisation recycle pumps.
A feature of the year was the surge of activity in the United States, as local power plants move to meet stricter emission targets.
We are optimistic that demand will remain at historical highs throughout 2008.
Higher oil prices in 2007 have accelerated the upgrading and expansion of oil sands mining in Northern Alberta, Canada and industry data has estimated that over US$100bn of capital investment is currently on the drawing board.
Transportation and processing of the oil sand is undertaken in slurry form and we have already received significant orders for HTP hydrotransport and plant pumps.
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Clear Liquid: By executing a strategy to focus on higher margin, specialist markets, Weir Clear Liquid delivered a strong performance in 2007.
Weir Pumps was sold, Weir SPM was purchased and Weir Gabbioneta has been successfully integrated and is exceeding expectations.
Going forward, Weir Clear Liquid is well placed to continue to grow.
200 150 Our brands Weir SPM Roto-Jet 100 Order input Lewis Wemco 50 Floway Begemann 191.9m 2006 2007 Up 43% Gabbioneta Zeron 100 Operational review Case Study After an outstanding 2006 for Weir Clear Liquid, 2007 was a year of further Weir Gabbioneta productivity increases dramatically growth and improving operational performance.
All businesses benefited Weir Gabbioneta enjoyed a highly successful 2007, with original from our strategy of focusing on higher technology, higher margin and equipment output up more than 70% without increasing the number speciality activities while exiting lower margin markets.
In line with this of production employees.
strategy, we disposed of the lower margin, non-core Weir Pumps, Glasgow business in May 2007.
The manufacturing process has been revised through Weir Production System methodology and material flows have been created in the The acquisition of Weir SPM was completed in July 2007 and adds workshop.
The machining shop layout has been completely changed, significantly to the scale of the division.
Weir SPMs market is largely tied to without any disruption in production activity.
Most of the layout the upstream drilling of gas wells in North America where gas storage levels, changes were suggested, designed and realised by cross-functional gas prices and North American weather conditions are key market drivers.
teams involved in Kaizen activities.
As a result, the lead time for parts The unprecedented growth of unconventional drilling activity over the reduced from 3-4 weeks to just a few days.
past few years has resulted in high levels of inventory and some expansion In the assembly department, a pull system driven cell has been created in industry operating margins.
In 2008, our expectation is that the industry and dedicated to the end-to-end process of the high volume R pump will see some unwinding of these favourable conditions.
Dramatic improvements in productivity, lead-time and work-inWeir SPM will however be offset through growth in servicing the installed progress were achieved.
All the piping, welding and finishing processes, equipment base and our profit improvement plans which will result in as well as materials handling and people movements, were also optimised.
Workers have received training to develop multifunctional skills and a An in-depth strategic review has been undertaken and identified significant continuous improvement programme is in place to sustain further opportunities for Weir SPM growth.
Expansion of Weir SPMs geographic growth in efficiency and lead-time reduction.
reach to better service high growth markets while leveraging off Weirs The companys supply chain has been reinforced with the introduction services network and investment in production facilities to increase retained of specific key performance indicators to monitor quality and on time value-add are the cornerstones of our medium term agenda.
delivery performance with overall improvements of 20%.
The acquisition of Italian pump manufacturer Weir Gabbioneta has been an excellent strategic fit and the integration of this business has now been completed.
The Group has made significant investment to strengthen the new organisation and improve its core processes.
As a result, 2007 was an excellent year for the company, with productivity and profitability up dramatically.
Weir Gabbioneta is now well placed to benefit from continued growth in the oil & gas markets, particularly in the buoyant Middle East downstream market.
Weir Lewis recorded another excellent year, on top of a very strong 2005 and 2006, with significant new orders from Northern Africa.
The outlook for 2008 remains strong with some minor decline in activity expected as the number of new projects has reached a plateau.
Weir Specialty Pumps had a strong year, with input up 17%.
Particularly Weir Gabbioneta pumps ready for despatch.
pleasing was the success of new products such as the Self Primer pump, designed to outperform the competition in key areas important to the customer.
Sales more than doubled in 2007 with the industrial sector, particularly food processing, being the main growth.
Success has been achieved in Venezuela, through cooperation with Weir sister companies and in Australia through partnering with the market leading distributor.
Weir Floway continued to deliver significant operational improvements in the year and despite input being flat, profitability was much improved.
The future outlook remains encouraging with significant opportunities being developed in the mining and oil & gas markets in addition to its core water market.
12 Operational Review Clear Liquid: world-class businesses providing end-to-end pumping solutions for major oil & gas, power generation, water and hydrocarbon processing projects.
Primary input breakdown Oil 67.8% Water & wastewater 15.3% General industrial 8.0% Minerals 8.0% Power 0.9% Geographic breakdown Americas 50.0% Middle East & Africa 20.6% Europe & Former Soviet Union 17.8% UK 6.5% Indo Pacific 4.7% Australia 0.4% Key achievements Successful acquisition of Weir SPM increasing exposure to upstream Stephen Bird gas & oil.
Divisional Managing Director Weir Gabbioneta is now fully integrated and achieved further growth in input in 2007 after exceptional growth in 2006.
Successful disposal of lower margin, non-core Weir Pumps business at 26.0m profit to book value.
Weir Lewis continues to perform strongly, with particular success in North Africa.
Weir Specialty Pumps grew input by 17% sales of our new product in the Self Primer market more than doubled.
Materials business in Manchester continued to see significant success in oil & gas and desalination applications for our Zeron 100 Super Market review Duplex stainless steel.
The primary markets for Weir Clear Liquid are oil & gas, specialist Lost time accidents reduced by 24% compared with 2006. water, wastewater and speciality products for general industrial Continued investment in implementing Lean principles resulted in markets.
The strategy is to strengthen participation in higher margin improvements in quality, on time delivery and working capital across activities and focus our resources on those markets where we believe the Clear Liquid businesses.
we can lead and bring added value to our customers.
Oil prices remained high in 2007, which meant that both the upstream and downstream oil markets continued to be buoyant and growing globally.
This resulted in significant business opportunities for Weir Gabbioneta, which saw continued strong performance in the Middle East in particular.
Weir SPMs market is largely tied to upstream drilling of gas wells in North America.
While we are likely to see some unwinding of favourable market conditions in 2008, we are confident that growth from servicing the installed base and our improvement initiatives will underpin further profit progress.
We remain selective about our activities in the water and wastewater markets and will continue to focus on more technical, higher margin products.
Through Weir Floway and Weir Specialty Pumps, we currently operate successfully and have leading positions in the clean water market in the United States, as well as in our selected municipal water and wastewater markets also in the United States.
The minerals & mining sector continues to be a growth market, particularly with regard to our Weir Floway vertical turbine pumps.
By working closely with Weir Minerals, we have been able to grow our market share considerably, particularly in South America.
Weir Lewis enjoyed considerable success supplying pumps for specialist chemical processing applications and this market continues achieving like for like volumes as the historical high.
Our 2007 performance in the general industrial market was also strong.
The sector continues to grow at 3-4% and the Clear Liquid businesses are well placed to grow ahead of this market.
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Valves & Controls: We have seen healthy growth in both power generation and oil & gas markets during 2007 leading to increased input, output and profit.
Our key markets continue to be buoyant with good prospects for further growth.
The factory moves in the USA and Middle East are now substantially complete and the business is well positioned to deliver sector best practice performance.
80 Our brands 60 Atwood & Morrill MAC Valves 40 Batley Valve Sarasin RSBD Order input Blakeborough Sebim 20 Controls 77.6m Tricentric 2006 2007 Up 13% Hopkinsons Operational review Case Study 2007 was a year of significant input growth for Weir Valves & Controls Reducing the pressure at Korean power station principally due to strong growth in our power generation and oil Many valves in a modern power station can be designated as severe & gas markets.
service, due to their generation of high noise levels, vibration, The previously restructured businesses delivered strong profit growth and cavitation or erosion.
One such application is the pump minimum we expect this to further improve in 2008 with an objective to achieving flow valve on a boiler feedwater control system.
best-in-class margins as the power market improves.
The new supply When filling the boiler, the feedwater control valve is required to operate chains in our relocated UK factory have developed well and proved with a high inlet pressure and a low outlet pressure, which generally sufficiently robust to cope with the growth in output, while also reducing results in high levels of cavitation a highly destructive phenomenon.
quoted lead times and improving customer delivery performance.
At Youngheung-do Power Station in Korea, the installed control valve Investment in the Weir Production System and Lean principles continued suffered from severe levels of cavitation, generating high levels of noise to deliver significant business benefits.
Of particular note are the factories and vibration.
The temperature of the feedwater was such that the in North Carolina in the United States, in northern France and China, vapour pressure was very close to the outlet pressure of the liquid.
where we have seen excellent improvements in output from the existing This meant that the liquid could change from liquid to gas, causing facilities and personnel.
As a result of this damage, the trim had to be replaced In North America, the old and inefficient site in Massachusetts was sold every six months.
and relocation to a modern world-class facility is now substantially To combat this problem, Weir Valves & Controls created the X-Stream completed.
The investment in this facility is underpinned by our growth trim, which works to prevent the fluid pressure falling below the expectations for the United States nuclear programme.
vapour pressure at the valve trim.
Our operations in the United Arab Emirates are being consolidated into a A new X-Stream trim was manufactured and installed to fit an existing single facility with capacity to support continued expansion.
The political valve body at Youngheung-do Power Station.
When the valve was put difficulties in Iran have meant that new work has been minimal during back into service, it was immediately clear that previous problems the year.
associated with noise, vibration and cavitation had been solved due Significant investment has been made to develop new, lower cost supply to the smooth operation of the valve.
chains in China, India and in particular, the Middle East.
Existing suppliers Although the original trim had to be changed after six months in service, have been supported and developed and new suppliers brought online the new X-Stream valve trim has not had to be taken out of service since with a result that a greater proportion of components are now being installation.
The application has been so successful that the customer sourced from these countries.
Investment in this initiative in 2007 has has ordered further repeat valves for later phases of the station.
built strong partnerships and processes that can deliver excellent quality parts to our demanding requirements going forward.
We have continued the excellent improvements in our Health and Safety record with a further reduction in accidents and the roll out of new safety programmes.
The skills and talents of the teams have also been improved partly by the addition of some new people but more importantly by strong training activity driven through the Weir Personal Development Programmes.
The X-Stream trim is fitted to a valve.
14 Operational Review Valves & Controls: businesses specialising in high integrity valves for critical service, process protection and plant safety applications in power generation, oil & gas and severe industrial processes.
Primary input breakdown Power 54.9% Oil 27.6% General industrial 15.6% Naval & Marine 0.9% Minerals 0.8% Water & wastewater 0.2% Geographic breakdown Americas 26.1% Europe & Former Soviet Union 24.2% Indo Pacific 20.8% Key achievements UK 16.9% Middle East & Africa 11.9% Growth in nuclear power generation activity, driven by new projects Australia 0.1% in China and potential work in Europe and North America.
New factory site for North American nuclear operations in Massachusetts to support future business growth.
Significant growth in profits and output from conventional power generation projects in China, North America, Europe and South Africa.
Phil Clifton Further profit growth from the restructured and relocated UK Divisional Managing Director operation, with a stronger supply chain underpinning future growth prospects.
Continued strong performance from the restructured French operations.
The first full year of the new factory in Suzhou, China, showed strong growth, with further products being introduced.
Expansion and consolidation of our Middle East operations into a new facility to support growth expectations.
Development of new products to support new nuclear reactors and the supercritical, high efficiency coal plants.
Market review Weir Valves & Controls principally operate in the power generation and oil & gas sectors.
Some of our specialist products are also supplied into critical service and safety applications in other industrial processes.
During 2007, we have seen strong growth in the power generation market, with significant orders being received for new power plants in China, both nuclear and conventional.
We are also active on the new nuclear plants in Finland and France and are well positioned to take advantage of expected growth in new nuclear plant development in both North America and Europe.
Life extension of existing power plants both nuclear and conventional in Europe, North America and South Africa has shown important growth and together with our sister operations in Weir Services, we have been able to offer a strong service to our customers.
Growth in our after-market activities has been very pleasing during the year.
We saw continued growth in the oil & gas markets throughout 2007 despite the political difficulties in trading with Iran, which has traditionally been an important market for us.
We have been successful in replacing the Iranian orders with work from other markets in the Middle East.
The general industrial markets have also been busy, in particular the chemical, petrochemical and special process industries, all of which need our high integrity equipment.
15 T Th he e W We eiir r G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 6 Engineering Services: Weir Services has built a reputation for excellent service and customers value our ability to employ sound engineering and project management principles on budget and on time.
Through our Global Knowledge Centre, we can share best practices and processes across the world on demand.
Operating profit m 20 10 Operating profit Revenue Order input 18.5m 231.4m 250.6m 2006 2007 Up 41% Up 4% Up 8% Operational review Case Study Engineering Services performed well in 2007 growing revenue 4% to A gold mine of new opportunities 231.4m and producing an operating profit before intangibles amortisation Weir Services Australia has been selected to assist in the re-commissioning of 18.5m against 13.1m in 2006.
The concentration for the year was to of a gold mine in the Philippines where the work includes complete execute and deliver the benefits of restructuring activities in the UK, USA refurbishment of two ball mills and one SAG mill.
Excellent company and Middle East which all contributed significantly to the improved capabilities and cooperation played a major part in the success of performance in the year.
In the UK, input was solid with a combination of continued strong demand The two ball mills will be shipped to the Henderson service centre in from our oil activities in Aberdeen and consistently good markets for our Western Australia for refurbishment.
The SAG mill, meanwhile, was in power and industrial businesses across the balance of our UK activities.
a state of disassembly, with some parts in Washington State in the A programme to modernise the Groups UK service infrastructure included USA and others in British Columbia, Canada.
a significant expansion of the Barton facilities and full implementation of a totally integrated management system across all of the UK operations.
All parts have been shipped to our Edmonton service centre in Canada where they will be inspected and refurbished to original equipment With the restructuring now behind us, we are anticipating further growth standards.
On completion, all three mills will be returned to the mine in 2008 and expect markets to remain buoyant.
site in the Philippines for installation and commissioning.
In the Middle East, the Groups service operations include wholly owned A senior customer representative visited both our Australian and facilities in Dubai and India and joint ventures in Abu Dhabi and Saudi Canadian facilities to assess the equipment and technical ability to Arabia with the majority of revenue related to the oil & gas market.
perform this type of work prior to confirming the order.
One of the key The high cost of oil combined with the Groups facility and equipment factors in the customers decision was the global reach of Weir Services, investments have positioned us well to capitalise on the massive market our proven experience in performing similar work in the past and our opportunities in the future.
During the year, we took the decision to acquire exceptional project management skills.
the minority interest in our subsidiary in India, providing a further platform for medium term growth.
The Services Division in North America consists of three principal activities, all of which made solid progress in 2007.
The engineering distribution business operates throughout Canada and benefited from the ongoing large scale project work being undertaken in the industry.
The services network in Canada and the Houston, Texas operation made significant progress.
The introduction of Lean and a programme to upgrade facilities delivered substantial operational benefits which were underpinned by continued buoyant markets in the oil sands, oil & gas and power generation sectors.
The third activity in Canada relates to our involvement in the asset management and operation of the Canadian Navys test and certification A SAG mill in situ, similar to one being refurbished for the facilities in Montreal.
This activity performed well and prospects exist for Philippines gold mine.
increased work in the future.
In Australia, the division performed equally well growing turnover and profit when compared to 2006.
Our activities include facilities in New South Wales, Victoria and our recent investment in a centre in Western Australia.
The principal markets for the Australian services business relate to the provision of replacement equipment and aftermarket services to the mining, oil & gas and power generation markets.
All of these sectors are expected to see additional growth in 2008 as a consequence of continued buoyant commodity markets and the significant number of new projects planned to come on board in the year.
16 Operational Review Engineering Services: A turnkey service provider with the ability to manage large, complex plant outages requiring civil engineering to integrated design and project planning.
Our proven ability in developing and successfully executing projects set new standards for our customers.
Primary input breakdown Oil 39.0% Power 22.6% Minerals 15.4% Naval & Marine 11.2% General industrial 7.8% Water & wastewater 4.0% Key achievements Geographic breakdown Improved margins from 5.9% in 2006 to 8% in 2007.
Americas 47.7% Peace River project for BC Hydro in Canada set new standards for UK 25.4% project management and Health & Safety.
Middle East & Africa 12.2% Field machining project in Venezuela expanded our reach from Australia 10.7% Montreal and built on our success in hydro markets.
Indo Pacific 2.3% Europe & Former Soviet Union 1.7% Secured a further two hydro projects for Scottish & Southern Energy and ScottishPower in the UK.
ScottishPower awarded our Alloa business the Opticon Contractor of the Year award for Health & Safety.
Steve Simone Divisional Managing Director Implementation of the Weir Production System in the Middle East resulted in an increase in manufacturing capacity while broadening core business capability.
Explicit recognition as a top tier supplier by BP led to a fourfold increase in business generated by the Baku service facility in Azerbaijan.
Successful completion and commissioning of the $15m Ravensthorpe desalination plant in Western Australia.
Awarded a three-year multi-million dollar contract to refurbish coal pulverisation equipment for power plants in Victoria, Australia.
36% improvement in year-on-year safety statistics.
Market review Around the world, the oil & gas industries continue to be a key sector for Weir Services.
As demand continues to grow and prices remain high, oil dominates opportunities in many of our businesses.
Western Canada continues to fund new work and expand its capacity in oil production and we have enjoyed continued success in our oil sands projects.
Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia deploys ever-increasing numbers of drilling rigs the current count is 13% up on the start of 2007.
In the UK, oil assets continue to be sold off to smaller independents as the fields production in relevant terms is projected to end in 10 years time.
Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan are gearing up to be the new boom areas.
Power generation continues to be a strong market for Weir Services.
The divisions biggest opportunities come from major plant outages and extension projects.
In the UK, we are forecasting some reductions in hydro power orders, as a significant number of plants have now been upgraded.
Canada is expected to provide a good level of hydro upgrade work in the future.
The expertise gathered in the UK is being transferred to Canada to support improving opportunities in that region.
The mining industry remains strong and both our Australian and Canadian businesses are very well positioned to take advantage of the continuing boom.
17 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 | Operational Review Defence, Nuclear & Gas: We have continued to develop opportunities in the defence sector, with strong growth in Australia, Canada and Spain.
The performance of our nuclear business was pleasing, despite some uncertainties in the UK decommissioning market.
Weir LGE has performed well and continues to deliver against customer and financial expectations.
Operating profit m 12 9 6 Operating profit Revenue Order input 3 10.4m 117.6m 84.0m 2006 2007 Up 4% Up 10% Down 53% Operational review Defence The nuclear and defence businesses once again performed well in 2007.
During 2007, we have continued to see growth Impressive results on a number of fronts have put the Weir Defence, Nuclear in defence spending worldwide.
Our strategy & Gas Division in a good position to take advantage of new opportunities of reducing our relative dependence on the going into 2008.
The Spanish submarine programme secured in 2006 has UK market has shown benefits, with continued developed well and customer confidence in the Groups capabilities has growth in Australia, Canada, Spain and the resulted in the award of significant additional work.
Netherlands, as well as significant opportunities Our submarine support operations in Australia and Canada are also being in other countries.
expanded to respond to new market opportunities.
In Australia, we experienced growth in 2007 and are well positioned to obtain work on their Nuclear surface ship activity and naval defence programme.
In Canada, we remain confident of winning some major new orders and our workload in the region In the UK, the Nuclear Decommissioning increased during 2007, resulting in the opening of an office in Ottawa.
Agency re-focused its activities for much of the year, leading to a period of uncertainty.
Despite The UK remains a key market for both our defence and nuclear businesses.
this, we are forecasting good prospects for The launch last year of the first Astute nuclear submarine marked a key 2008 and have seen further development of milestone in this project.
We are now working closely with BAE Systems on our already strong relationships with other UK the remaining three boats.
In the nuclear area, we have built an excellent nuclear businesses requiring decommissioning relationship with the UK Atomic Weapons Establishment and in 2007 and nuclear material handling services.
secured preferred supplier status in support of its nuclear decommissioning and material handling requirements.
The relationship with British Energy continues to develop and successfully culminated in a five-year partnership Gas agreement on the maintenance of its nuclear fuel systems.
As expected, we are seeing a slow down in The exceptional level of orders secured in the LPG marine market over the LPG marine activities worldwide following past two years provides a solid platform for further progress in 2008 and the exceptional influx of orders placed over all projects are proceeding successfully with equipment delivered to plan.
However, we are continuing As expected, the shipyards are now fully booked through the turn of the to develop potential onshore LPG storage decade and new input will be limited until the backlog is cleared.
Weir LGE opportunities and our order book through has a healthy workload which will sustain its activities through 2009.
Key achievements Primary input breakdown Geographic breakdown Naval & Marine 64.6% Europe & Good performance on the initial stages of new Spanish conventional Former Soviet Union 35.4% Power 16.8% submarines contract has led to significant additional work.
Oil 14.6% UK 29.1% Continued expansion of our Australian and Canadian submarine General industrial 4.0% Americas 14.7% support operations.
Middle East & Africa 11.0% Launch of the first UK Astute nuclear submarine marked a key milestone Australia 6.4% in this project and we continue to work closely with BAE Systems on the Phil Clifton Indo Pacific 3.4% remaining boats.
Divisional Managing Director Excellent relationships have been built with the UK Atomic Weapons Establishment to support its nuclear material handling requirements.
Relationship with British Energy continues to develop, culminating in a five-year partnership agreement on its nuclear fuel systems.
LPG marine market projects are being progressed successfully with equipment delivered to plan.
