01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:35 am Page 4 4 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Chief Executives operating review Marc Bolland It is a pleasure to present my first operating review, after being part of Morrisons for eight months.
I am impressed by the business and by our people, who are at the heart of the Group.
Market backdrop 2006 07 was an unusual year for UK The industry remained highly competitive in the year.
It began in similar fashion to the pattern pointed out by the Competition Commission, 80% of the UK of previous years, with price deflation.
This was characterised population has a choice of 3 supermarkets larger than 13,000 by high profile price cuts on certain commodity items, such square feet within a 15 minute drive of home.
Tesco, Asda, as milk, bananas and bacon.
No volume retailer can afford Sainsbury and Morrisons account for approximately 66% of to be out of line with the market on such staple items, but the grocery market.
A further 15% is operated by Marks and equally cutting prices on them will not result in sales uplifts Spencer, Waitrose, Somerfield and the Co-op.
Kwik Save has adequate to compensate for the margin foregone.
This all but disappeared from the market, providing some boost intense pricing activity eased in the second quarter, and the to other operators in the sector.
whole sector benefited from an exceptional summer.
The Overall, TNS estimate that the grocery market grew by 3.4% prolonged period of good weather saw sales move into during our 2006 07 financial year.
Morrisons growth, higher margin fresh, premium and beverage lines.
The good excluding fuel, was 2.0%, due to disposal effects.
weather continued through much of October, when the usual competitive promotional activity ahead of Christmas Operating review of the year 2006 07 was Morrisons got under way.
Trading in the weeks leading to Christmas first year operating as a truly national retailer, under one appeared to be slow for most retailers, with trade coming brand, with common systems and processes.
Whilst, in a late surge in the final week.
inevitably, there was some residual activity dealing with legacy Safeway issues, most of our attention was on An important, and encouraging, feature of the year was the delivering Morrisons best practice through the enlarged increasing focus by consumers, the media and the industry stores estate and on recovering profitability.
Our targets in on health, quality, freshness and the provenance of food.
this regard were laid out in the Optimisation Plan, published This was a shift away from merely focusing on price, the main in March 2006, and all of these were achieved.
area of attention in the previous five years.
A combination of factors has contributed to this, including great consumer We opened 4 new, large stores in the year, in Leyland, interest in food and drink programmes on television and a Swadlincote, Cardiff and Crowborough, and disposed of national debate emerging over obesity concerns.
14 small stores, leaving us with an unchanged 10.5m square feet of retail space.
01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 16 4 07 2:22 pm Page 5 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 5 Total turnover of 12.5bn was in line with the previous year, Operating profit before property transactions and before Safeway integration costs although elements changed year on year, as shown in the table.
The reporting period benefited from an extra, 53rd 385m 2007 week, but was disadvantaged by the continuing drag effect 104m 2006 of store disposals in the previous year.
These elements are isolated in the table.
The most important sales measure for 100m 200m 300m 400m us is store like for like sales growth coming from existing Much more to do to build profitability further.
This was strong in the year, at 5.2%, reflecting the See Outcome of business review continued good progress of the stores converted to Morrisons from Safeway.
Original Morrisons stores, which Like for like sales excluding petrol had been showing like for like sales declines, had turned positive week on week by the year end, but were still 9,552m 2007 growing behind the market.
Within the like for like sales figure, we saw growth both in the number of transactions 9,078m 2006 i. e. customers shopping with us and basket size how much 2.5m 5.0m 7.5m 10.0m customers spend with us.
Growth coming from existing stores up 5.2% Our like for like sales growth of 5.2% excluding fuel included some shifts in product mix.
Fresh produce performed particularly well, helped by the good summer and the Sales per labour hour emerging healthy eating trends.
Our fishmongery business Like for like sales was a star performer, reflecting its Retail Industry Award 2007 of Seafood Retailer of the Year, and represents a real point of difference for Morrisons.
Health and beauty began to 2006 respond to our greater focus on this area, with good growth following the rollout of new fixtures and ranges in 146 Store labour productivity year on year improved by 14% stores.
Less strong was our home and leisure business, where it has become clear that our range needs refreshing, and beers, wines and spirits, where volumes remained good Colleague numbers at year end but intense competition saw further deflation in the year.
The healthy eating and premium quality trends were evidenced by sales of our Eat Smart range increasing by 2007 47%, Organics by 20% and The Best, our premium brand, 2006 by 58%.
In each case these were growing from a low base, but the trends are clear.
By contrast, sales of carbonated 32.5 65 97.5 130 drinks, chocolate biscuits and crisps were down year on year.
Number in thousands Stores Manufacturing Distribution Central The strong performance of fresh produce benefited not just our retail business but also our manufacturing operations, which were operating towards full capacity for much of the year.
This provided a welcome boost to profitability.
Like for like 2006 07 2005 06 stores Other 53rd Week Total Total Sales of goods m 10,269 372 200 10,841 10,541 Fuel m 2,603 52 51 2,706 2,516 Total sales inc VAT m 12,872 424 251 13,547 13,056 Turnover exc VAT m 11,844 387 231 12,462 12,115 Sales per square foot 19.57 19.34 17.69 Customer numbers m 464 479 484 Customer spend 22.62 22.53 20.92 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:35 am Page 6 6 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued For a number of years, food retail prices have been declining, productivity improvements are required in order to keep giving ever greater value to consumers and reflecting the labour ratios to sales on an improving trend.
In the period intense competition in the market.
In 2006 07, there were after the Safeway acquisition, store labour productivity had reports of inflation again entering the market, as producers declined for two years.
It is therefore pleasing to report that and retailers sought to pass on to customers the cumulative in 2006 07 it again began to improve, with sales per labour effect of high energy, commodity and business rates costs.
hour, a key measure for us, improving by 14% year on year.
At some periods in the year, and in some categories, Another significant cost, both in store and throughout the particularly fresh produce, we saw inflation in the business.
Despite our energy efficiency improving, Overall, however, through the whole year, our customers the high cost of gas and electricity in the year had an impact paid less for their average shopping basket than they would on the result of approximately 25m.
have paid the previous year.
Of fundamental importance to a grocery retailer is the Fuel sales in the past two years have been heavily affected by efficiency of the supply chain, and throughout the difficult high oil prices.
These price rises boost sales, but contribute Safeway integration period Morrisons was successful in little to profits, as fuel is a low margin business and we seek maintaining industry leading levels of availability.
However, to remain highly competitive in the marketplace.
The fact this was achieved at a cost, and the business had finished the that we grew underlying fuel volumes, in litres sold, by 5% previous year with significant excess depot capacity.
Good reflects the competitiveness of our offering.
progress was made in addressing this issue in the year, with three large depots closed, and as a result the costs of When the Optimisation Plan was launched in March 2006 distribution fell by over 44m.
The business now does not we noted that the stores we had converted from Safeway have surplus depot capacity, but geographically some of the were not performing at levels of sales density as strong as space is poorly sited to serve our Southern estate.
As a those in the original Morrisons estate.
These stores made result, we continue to drive more miles than we would wish good progress in the year, delivering sales growth ahead of to service our stores.
the average for the market as a whole.
Smaller stores, which we define as having less than 25,000 square feet of selling An important landmark for us in 2006 07 was the opening area and comprise nearly a third of our store sales, performed of our new head office in Bradford, in April.
This purpose particularly well, with sales densities up 12% in the year.
built facility houses some 1,400 colleagues who previously worked in various buildings around the city.
Bringing them These stores are not able to carry the full Morrisons range, all together in one location, with a high quality working but can still offer customers our unique Market Street environment, has improved communication and working experience and a comprehensive range of grocery, frozen efficiency greatly.
As a result of the move, and also the and household items.
Adapting the way we work, to withdrawal from some duplicate Safeway facilities, the cost maximise our opportunities in these stores, was a major of running our central functions fell in the year.
We improved our range selection and merchandising techniques, and found ways of delivering Optimisation Plan delivery The March 2006 labour efficiency whilst maintaining service levels and Optimisation Plan contained a number of ambitions and taking cost out of the back office administration.
Where firm targets were set, these have been achieved, and where ambitions were outlined, we have Our success, so far, with these stores, has given us made progress towards them.
We wanted to see sales confidence that they will be able to deliver acceptable growth across the board, and we did.
However, whilst we levels of profitability, although they are not yet doing so.
were pleased with the performance of the converted stores, Reflecting this confidence, we will open a new, 24,800 and particularly the smaller stores, we remain dissatisfied square foot store, in Erskine in 2007.
This will be the smallest with sales in the original Morrisons stores.
These stores grew new Morrisons store to have opened for over 20 years.
sales during the second half, but have yet to establish a firm After the cost of goods that we sell, our biggest cost is positive trend.
For a number of years, wage inflation has been running ahead of food price inflation, meaning that 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:35 am Page 7 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 7 We outlined a gross margin target of 90 basis points for From a stall in a Bradford market came the delivery over three years, with an expectation that this would inspiration to innovate and lead the way in be delivered through better buying, sales mix and improved supermarket retailing.
Progress was very positive, and we were out town-centre shop was opened offering pleased to deliver the whole of the target in the year.
Key to Bradford self-service for the first time, and in this was the positive support of our suppliers, most of whom 1961 the Groups first supermarket, Victoria, have been in partnership with Morrisons for many years.
In 1967 the Group became a We also established cost saving targets totalling 110m in the listed company and in 2004 completed the year, across store wages, distribution costs and central costs.
takeover of Safeways, making it a significant Again, all of these were achieved.
Our staff numbers retail group in the FTSE 100.
With 368 stores decreased in the period, from an average of 93,041 full time across the nation, 278 offering petrol filling equivalents in 2005 06 to 84,653 in 2006 07.
We were stations as well, there is a Morrisons near you.
pleased to achieve most of this through natural staff turnover In 2006 07 new stores with petrol filling as we delivered operational efficiency improvements.
stations were opened in: The combination of good like for like sales growth and Leyland Cardiff Sports Village achievement of our Optimisation Plan for gross margin Swadlincote Crowborough and cost targets led to operating profit before property transactions of 384.7m being achieved in the year, In 2007 08 new stores with petrol filling compared to 104.0m before Safeway integration and stations are planned for: conversion costs in the previous year.
This recovery is pleasing, but at 3.1% of turnover there remains much to do Speke Johnstone to build profitability further.
We aim to do this by acting on Dundee York the results of my business review, conducted over the past Llanelli Bristol Hartcliffe six months, which is the subject of the next section.
Wednesbury Giffnock Outcome of the business review Since joining Your store locator can be found on Morrisons as CEO in September 2006 I have been able, www.
co. uk with colleagues, to have a thorough look at what we stand for, how we perform and what we need to do to ensure our future success.
We found many strengths in the business, but also challenges that we must address if we are to be a winner in the highly competitive UK grocery market.
Earlier 49 Scotland in this report, I outlined the real success already achieved in the past year in establishing Morrisons as a national food retailer, in growing our sales and profits and in generating cash.
Having stabilised and begun to optimise the business, we now have plans to complete the profit recovery and 53 North position ourselves for future growth.
What we did Firstly, we stepped back from the business and asked lots of people to talk to us about their experiences and views of Morrisons.
Some of the feedback came through 62 19 Midlands structured, formal market research, covering over 3,000 Wales 40 East Midlands customers and 8,000 colleagues.
Some came from talking West to people customers, colleagues and suppliers from all 56 49 over the country and hearing their views.
South East South 40 Central South West 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 16 4 07 8:44 pm Page 8 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:36 am Page 9 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 9 Chief Executives operating review continued A clear picture emerged of the things we should concentrate recycling 72% of the waste packaging that arises in our stores on and the issues we face, and we asked colleagues from but in other cases to recognise that we need to give these across the business to help us get the answers.
We did not things greater prominence.
For example, our Organics range is want large numbers of external consultants doing this work, too narrow and we are behind our competitors on the removal we wanted the solutions to come from within, developed of hydrogenated fats and the reduction of salt in recipes.
by the people who will have to deliver our plans.
Where We found that the business is already in shape to tackle necessary, we did seek outside advice and support in areas many of the challenges that we face day to day.
But we also where real specialism could help, but this was a small part found that some work is required to strengthen the basic of the overall programme.
building blocks of the business, if we are to deliver our potential for the future.
Morrisons is a great business, and the results What we are going to be of this review are about evolution not revolution.
Morrisons is going to be the food specialist for everyone: Reflecting our nationwide presence, and our Food specialist We really understand food many new customers, we will be making We know where it comes from Morrisons the food specialist for everyone.
We pack it and make it in our factories We make it in our stores We employ craft skills in every store What we found We found lots of real strengths in Morrisons.
We deliver fresh to you, every day Our customers appreciate the value we offer, our high standards of availability and our industry leading in-store For everyone Great food which is also great value service.
Customers highly loyal to us also understand some Great food which is for everyday, not of our unique, quality attributes, such as our in-store butchery, just special days fishmongery and bakery skills, our popular cafs and the fact How we will get there the building blocks Delivering that we control key parts of the fresh food supply chain our goal of being the food specialist for everyone will be a through our manufacturing businesses.
Customers who do great team effort from all 114,000 colleagues in the business.
not know us so well often do not appreciate these points, As I have toured our stores and other operations I have and we found that we are not as good at communicating been highly impressed by the enthusiasm, commitment and these strengths as we should be.
dedication to customer service of Morrisons people.
This is We found that customers are very interested, today, in the powerful, and we will build on it.
Colleagues have told me provenance, quality and health aspects of food and in the where we need to improve, in supporting the stores and impact of big businesses on the environment.
We have work in working together more effectively in the centre, and to do here, in some cases, to communicate better the good activities are under way to make these improvements.
things that Morrisons does like having higher standards for In particular, I want to reduce staff turnover in stores, the selection of beef than our competitors, or already WE HAVE MORE PEOPLE PREPARING MORE FOOD IN-STORE THAN ANY OTHER RETAILER Many supermarkets are removing preparation from their stores to reduce costs.
We put food thats freshly prepared in-store right at the heart of what we do.
Morrisons has over 2,200 food products that we freshly prepare in-store, and every store offers at least 850 of these products.
No-one else can offer so much freshly prepared food.
In our stores, there are staff preparing freshly made sandwiches and salads, topping pizzas, baking bread and finishing cakes.
So a Morrisons cheese and tomato sandwich will have been made only a few hours before it is bought the tomatoes freshly washed and sliced by hand in-store, and mature, freshly grated, cheese from the delicatessen.
Because we have more people preparing food in our stores, our customers receive more personal service than can be found elsewhere, in an atmosphere thats lively, friendly and down-to-earth.
01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 16 4 07 2:23 pm Page 10 10 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued which is ahead of industry norms, and to improve the After a quiet period in 2006 07, with only 4 store openings, training, development and performance evaluation of staff we will accelerate our opening programme in the coming in the centre.
I will continue to survey our staff regularly to year to 8 and will also be working on a number of schemes ensure that the promised improvements are taking effect.
to extend sales areas in existing stores.
I am pleased that we will be launching a colleague discount Our manufacturing businesses will be an important part of scheme later in the year the weekly food shop is a key delivering our food specialist credentials.
They comprise two household expense, and we will be offering our colleagues abattoirs, six fruit and vegetable packhouses, three bakeries even better value, through a discount on most items, for the and a food preparation factory.
Collectively, they rank as a first time.
Key to the delivery of change in any organisation top 5 UK food producer.
We reviewed them thoroughly and is the broad leadership group, in our case defined as confirmed that, financially, they are important profit approximately 600 colleagues including our store general contributors to the Group that justify their capital employed.
I will be articulating my plans for the business In the case of the bakeries, we own a majority but not all of to this group regularly, through the Management Forum, and the business, and our strategic review is not yet complete.
they will be included in new long and short term incentive In all other cases, we have confirmed our commitment to programmes designed to align them behind delivering invest and grow the businesses, as they provide vital support financial success for our shareholders.
At the top of the to our aim of being the food specialist for everyone.
Through organisation, I will have a team of eight senior executives the control of the supply chain created by our vertical reporting to me.
Six are already in place, and recruitment integration, we can monitor sourcing quality more closely, is well advanced for an HR Director and a Marketing and and bring product to market more quickly, than competitors.
In order to deliver this everywhere, we need more capacity in meat and in fresh produce.
We have therefore acquired Our manufacturing businesses will be an a new abattoir, in Spalding, which we will commission in important part of delivering our food specialist the fourth quarter of 2007, and we will be extending our maturation and packing facilities at the Colne site.
Collectively, they rank as a top 5 UK food producer.
These two investments will make us self sufficient in beef, pork and lamb, and allow us to deliver more specialist products such as extra matured beef joints.
We identified In a highly competitive market place, we must continually some gaps in our chill chain which have led, in certain strive to be more efficient, provided we can maintain our product categories and at certain times of year, to fresh high levels of service.
In our stores, we have identified a produce not having the shelf life and freshness that our number of initiatives which will improve the way we work.
For example, in some stores, soft We will bring in more products shelf ready so that it does fruits are displayed at ambient temperature rather than not require unpacking in store and we will be installing some refrigerated and this can cause issues in hot weather.
self scanning checkouts in stores later in 2007.
These and Similarly, some potatoes are transported in non-refrigerated other initiatives will contribute real reductions in our staffing lorries.
We intend to invest in refrigeration in store, in costs, and implemented over two years will be attained trailers and at our packhouse at Flaxby to address this issue, through natural staff turnover rather than redundancies.
A UNIQUE RETAIL EXPERIENCE THE MARKET REDISCOVERED Market Street is central to the Morrisons food offer and sets us apart from other supermarkets.
All of our fresh food, much of it prepared in store, is stocked and sold in Market Street.
Market Street contains a number of different areas, each of which has its own sense of personality shops within a shop.
Not only do we have the butcher, fruit & vegetables, the fishmonger and the delicatessen, we also have a bakery where most bread is freshly baked and not just baked off.
Theres also an area selling goods fresh from the oven, a pie shop, and a salad bar.
Morrisons has more qualified staff in each area than any other supermarket, with 1,500 butchers, 800 fishmongers and 2,000 bakers.
Each butcher has the skill to prepare over 150 cuts of meat, and each baker knows how to bake 90 different varieties of bread.
They are happy to give advice to our customers on how to prepare and cook the food we sell.
Market Street recaptures the authenticity and enjoyment of shopping at the market.
01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:36 am Page 11 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:36 am Page 12 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:36 am Page 13 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 13 Chief Executives operating review continued with consequent benefit to the product quality delivered to How we will get there what our customers will see Our our customers.
As our business grows, we will need further loyal and growing customer base likes what we do, and we capacity in fruit and vegetable packing, and we will be have no wish to disappoint them.
In their feedback to us, seeking a new facility to open in 2009. however, they helped point to some things that we can do better.
Equally, those who do not shop with us today gave Our distribution infrastructure, although adequate to deal us useful insights into where we can be more attractive to a with our current volumes, will not satisfy all our future broader range of customers.
Great products are fundamental growth requirements, and is not geographically optimal for to any retailers success, and we have work to do to broaden serving our Southern stores.
We are confident of securing and contemporise our ranges.
Additionally, with our more a facility in the South later in 2007.
Whilst not a full regional diverse estate, we need more sophistication in the way we distribution centre, it will allow us to move some of our tailor our ranges to the needs of the local store catchment grocery supply from the Midlands to a base closer to our area.
So our customers will be seeing new and interesting South West stores.
We will continue to seek further depot products, better focused on their needs.
There will be more capacity in the South to deal with future growth requirements.
healthy options, more products hand prepared in store that Systems are fundamental to the efficient operation of any day and more innovative meal solutions for those who love large retailer, and the Morrisons systems platforms have to cook.
Customers love our promotions, and these will served the business well.
They are now approaching the continue to be a big part of the Morrisons offer.
Customers point of requiring to be changed.
Most of the core systems like the way we package products to ensure freshness and in Morrisons have been developed in house, over many a long shelf life, and particularly like the way we show prices years, and some are up to 30 years old.
We will be pursuing clearly on many more of our fresh products than our a three year programme of moving our trading, store, competitors.
But they are also conscious of environmental warehousing, distribution, payroll and financial systems concerns, and do not want to see over packaging.
We will on to new platforms, wherever possible using best of breed be reducing our packaging wherever we can, and looking package software.
for more sustainable and recyclable sources.
We believe the market for retail systems is well developed, Customers like the atmosphere of the market created in a and that there are relatively few areas where we need to Morrisons, and love to find a bargain in an unexpected place.
continue with home grown applications.
We will not be But they tell us they do not like clutter, and in some of our seeking to implement any leading edge technology, stores, particularly smaller stores, we make it too difficult to as we believe our competitive advantages come in other navigate around.
So we will be fide-cluttering our stores, and areas, such as in-store service.
A new MIS Director has been also freshening up our brand.
This will be signalled by the recruited to lead this programme.
change of our logo for the first time in a number of years, and CLOSER TO SOURCE THAN ANY OTHER FOOD RETAILER Morrisons is the most vertically integrated food retailer.
We develop trusted relationships with the farmers who supply us and we are very involved in the selection of the food that we sell.
We select and pack 80% of the fresh produce sold in store and 90% of all our fresh meat.
All of our British meat comes from Farm Assured sources.
We transport the food using our own logistics network to our own manufacturing businesses.
With our own abattoirs, fruit and vegetable packing plants, bakeries and a meat and cheese processing plant, were now one of the top five food producers in Britain.
Put that together with our focus on fresh preparation in-store and we have a unique level of control over the food that we sell.
The benefit to customers of this unique way of working is that Morrisons can ensure the provenance, quality and freshness of our food.
01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 16 4 07 2:24 pm Page 14 14 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued will also involve new and fresher signage, a brighter Market Outlook Our new financial year began slowly, with like Street, new staff uniforms and, in the Spring, the launch for like sales excluding fuel growing at 3.4%, well below the of a new advertising campaign to replace the more reasons momentum seen last year.
Whilst, partly, this reflects the to shop at Morrisons campaign that served the Group well disruption caused by contaminated fuel supplied to us in for 30 years.
Customers will have more chance to see the South, it also emphasises the need for us to make good Morrisons, as we will be extending our opening hours in progress with our new plans.
I am confident that in the a third of the estate.
coming months our loyal customers will continue to see the best of the Morrisons they know, but with a fresh new twist.
Our customers will be seeing new and It is important for the Group to build on the good, strong interesting products, better focused on their culture of commitment that already exists.
This programme is evolution, not revolution, and is about our people, our needs.
Customers love our promotions, and stores and our brand taking us forward to a fresh future.
these will continue to be a big part of the Morrisons offer.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the many people that I have met since I arrived in the business, for their help, suggestions and support.
Especially I would like to thank Ken Our overall programme requires investment, which I Morrison, who has been a fantastic support.
I value him as believe will deliver returns.
Over three years, we will invest an entrepreneur and a person who is truly unique.
approximately 450m on top of our normal annual capital requirements, which we estimate to be 400m including our new store programme.
I anticipate that we will deliver 200m of annual profit enhancement by 2010, over and above the first phase of the Optimisation Plan announced last year.
As a result of the investments outlined, our net debt is likely to rise in the current financial year, but in the expectation that it will fall again thereafter we will be exploring ways to return value to our shareholders.
As a first step towards this, we are in discussions which may lead to us entering into a Marc Bolland property partnership for some of our investment properties.
Chief Executive This will only involve approximately 25 of our properties, but if it proceeds it might be an interesting first step towards extracting further value from our property base.
COMPETITIVE PRICES AND HUNDREDS OF OFFERS THAT ALWAYS SAVE OUR CUSTOMERS MONEY Morrisons is proud to save our customers money, every day.
Its something well continue to do even more of in the future, and we do it in two ways.
Firstly, we keep our everyday prices low, so that shopping at Morrisons is always great value for money.
Secondly, we will continue to offer the great promotions and offers that we know our customers love and for which we are famous.
In fact, well be working hard to create even more great promotions in the future in food and non-food.
Everyone appreciates good value, no matter who they are, and by constantly refreshing our offers and promotions, we give our customers fresh surprises every time they visit Morrisons.
