Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Lavender Fields, Hitchin, Hertfordshire Use of renewable energy results in 13% fall in CO2 emissions.
11 Chief Executives Operating Review Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Of the 521 increase in legal completions, 404 were obtained from our Introduction northern divisions where turnover increased by 13.6% to 660.7 Throughout the year the housing market continued to adjust to the million.
The combined output of our two Scottish divisions has higher cost of borrowing.
The figures outlined in the Chairmans increased to 840 homes and this region continues to experience some Statement clearly demonstrate that the Group performed very well of the most buoyant market conditions in the country.
The planning during the period, increasing legal completions, delivering a record system in Scotland allows a higher percentage of detached homes and profit and strong operating margins.
this has helped to increase the overall average selling price referred to The Group commenced the year with a robust forward order book of earlier.
With a new 650 homes scheme coming to the market in 561 million - one of the strongest positions in the industry.
In North Tyneside, the North East division was also able to increase addition, the number of sales outlets had increased to 210 by the volume to 717 new homes.
Whilst the city centre of Manchester is, in beginning of August 2006.
The forward order book, supported by the our opinion, over supplied with apartments, the Manchester division additional outlets, helped to deliver the Groups sixteenth year of overcame this problem by moving into the suburbs and thereby organic growth and a record pre-tax profit of 234.8 million.
When combined with the West Lancashire division, operating in the Liverpool area, the Group delivered a healthy Divisional Operations 1,182 legal completions from these two North West based divisions.
The 18 housing divisions worked diligently throughout the year to Volume also increased in the southern divisions by some 117 homes, deliver this forward sales position and, as a consequence, the number resulting in a 6.7% increase in turnover to 663 million.
Most notably, of legal completions rose by 7.3% to 7,638, an increase of 521 units.
legal completions in the two Thames Gateway divisions have now The average selling price increased by 2.5% to 173,300 and was reached 775 and, with a comparatively low average selling price for achieved primarily as a result of a change in product mix.
this region of 183,000, demand is still strong in this government 12 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Willow Park, Kings Hill, Kent designated expansion area.
Furthermore, exciting new developments are planned in this region alongside the Groups existing large, strategic land holding held in a joint venture with English Partnerships at Barking which has recently received outline planning permission.
The Essex division embarked upon the final phase of its Docklands development at Limehouse Basin in London and a major waterfront regeneration scheme being developed by our Welsh division in Cardiff Bay continues to sell well as this once derelict area has now been transformed into a vibrant suburb of Cardiff, with views overlooking the Bay.
Three new divisions have now been opened in the last four years, taking the total number of divisions to 18.
Thames Gateway North and the South West divisions from a cold start last year produced 291 completions.
In the year under review the South Midlands division commenced operations and, whilst only 32 legal completions were The Tannery, Canterbury, Kent achieved, the Group anticipates output increasing from this division as the North Solihull regeneration project gathers pace.
13 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 planning permission will be granted ahead of other opportunities.
Large Land and Planning regeneration projects are already underway in Liverpool and The quality and strength of the Groups land bank is pivotal to the Birmingham and it is hoped that similar projects in Manchester and future success of the Group.
The land bank is divided into three Middlesbrough will commence shortly.
The Groups City Solutions sections.
Firstly, the plots held with planning permission have increased team has, during the year, been awarded preferred developer status from 22,600 to 23,500 plots.
Secondly, the land owned, contracted or on potential new schemes in Hull and Ilford town centre representing, optioned, currently awaiting planning permission, which is referred to in total, some 1,000 plots.
The new schemes will allow the company as pipeline, has increased from 15,000 to 15,800 plots.
Thirdly, long to work in partnership with various government agencies targeting, in term land, which represents around 5,500 plots, is typically made up particular, the undersupplied first time buyer market.
of greenfield land held under option and brownfield regeneration opportunities generated by the Groups urban regeneration specialists, As a result of government planning policies, many planning permissions Bellway City Solutions.
Together the first two categories amount to are now being granted which allow the company to build rented or 39,300 plots, representing approximately five years supply at current shared ownership homes alongside private homes.
These units are output levels.
constructed and passed over to housing associations to manage.
During the year this type of output increased to 900 homes with an Significant land acquisitions in the year include two schemes in average selling price of about 95,500.
Sittingbourne and Belvedere in Kent representing around 670 plots, with proposed average selling prices of around 150,000.
A further Cost Base site in Thamesmead in the London borough of Bexley has also been contracted, conditional on acquiring planning permission for 500 plots, The Group has, during the year, spent a considerable amount of time at an average selling price of 172,000.
In addition, two further sites at reviewing the efficiency of the supply chain.
The industry faces the Greenwich and Bromley were acquired, representing 316 plots, both challenge of reducing carbon emissions which involves the of which are within a five mile radius of the Olympic site.
employment of different building techniques.
By engaging with the Groups main suppliers we are engendering a spirit of partnership In the north, two large schemes in the Scottish central belt at Carntyne which in turn produces a more stable cost base for the company.
In in Glasgow and Airdrie in Lanarkshire, representing 875 plots, were addition, the Group continues to employ timber frame systems, acquired, again, at relatively low average selling prices of less than especially in relation to the housing association output referred to 150,000.
I am also pleased to report that an appeal against refusal of earlier, and this building technique now represents about one third of a planning permission was successful for 172 plots just outside Morpeth the Groups output.
This system is highly insulated, reduces waste on in Northumberland.
site and leads to more standardisation.
These measures are helping to mitigate the effect of annual labour and material cost increases.
Regeneration Land continues to take an inordinate length of time to come through the planning system.
To try and counter this, the Group has targeted large scale urban regeneration projects where it is anticipated that 14 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The Croft, Hewarth Green, York The effect of climate change is one of the main challenges facing the housebuilding industry today.
At Barking Riverside, working with a sub-contractor, a recycling plant Environment with the capacity to produce 350,000 tonnes of aggregates per annum The effect of climate change is one of the main challenges facing the has been constructed.
The plant enables the capture and recycling of housebuilding industry today.
In response to this, in April 2007, the materials that would otherwise have been sent to landfill.
Government launched the Code for Sustainable Homes which seeks to establish a target of achieving carbon neutrality in all new homes by Arising from planning agreements, Bellway has contributed somewhere 2016. in the region of 10 million towards enhanced community amenities, including, inter alia, improved educational facilities, enhancements to Bellway has made significant progress during the year in reducing the parks, roads and local biodiversity schemes.
Groups own impact on the environment.
In the period, 326 homes were constructed to Eco Homes Very Good standard or higher, and Customers developments, particularly in the south of England, have commenced The Group continually monitors customer reaction to its product and utilising new renewable energy.
An example of this approach can be service levels, from initial enquiry through to legal completion and found at a development at Redhill in Surrey, where 250 homes will after-sales support.
During the year, several surveys were undertaken have their heating and hot water supplied from a biomass boiler fired and, of those who responded, around 75% of Bellway purchasers by locally sourced wood chip.
were satisfied with their new home.
The Group is striving to improve Inevitably, the demolition and remediation process of brownfield sites this performance and, as part of our commitment, a Customer Service results in considerable quantities of waste materials.
Bellways excellent Charter is being utilised to monitor performance and to improve ongoing relationship with plasterboard suppliers has resulted in 3,900 service levels in future.
tonnes of plasterboard being removed from site to be recycled.
An ongoing priority is to improve the efficiency of handling these materials.
15 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Site managers play a pivotal role in this important area, helping to coordinate all elements of the building process and we are pleased to see that the National House-Building Council NHBC have awarded Bellway with 19 Pride in the Job awards.
In order to improve service levels further, the Group has undertaken additional training to ensure that standards of service remain high and we will continue to monitor customer responses as well as adapt procedures and strive to ensure that customer satisfaction levels are improved.
Health and Safety Health and safety awareness is one of the most important messages that the Group instils in all its employees, whether they are site or office based.
Bellways aim is to ensure the highest level of awareness of safety standards.
The Group is therefore particularly pleased to report that the Manchester division has received an occupational health and safety award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA in recognition of its commitment and high standards in this crucial area.
Although the number of lost time accidents has risen by one this year to 48, the number of major injuries has fallen from six to five and overall the Groups health and safety performance has again improved since last year.
The Groups aim is for Bellway to be one of the safest companies to work for in the industry.
In line with achieving this goal, specific initiatives have been undertaken, including the issue of action notices to sub-contractors where unsafe working practices have been identified.
Regular health and safety visits to all our sites are undertaken by the NHBC and these result in health and safety briefings and dialogue with all employees and sub-contractors.
Slips, trips and falls remain the most common form of accident and the Group, through its health and safety managers and site management, is continuing to address this area in an attempt to further improve its health and safety record.
Outlook The Group welcomes the recent pronouncements by Government to significantly increase housing output in this country by 2016 and 2020.
Bellway is fully committed to playing its part in hopefully achieving these targets.
With the support of the Groups expanding divisional network, combined with a steady increase in the number of sales outlets, Bellway ended the year with its highest ever forward order book of 594 million.
Whilst reservations to date have declined slightly, we remain in a strong position with 57% of planned output in place at the end of September.
We therefore believe the foundations are in place for the Group to continue to deliver further sustainable growth and added shareholder value into the future.
John K Watson Chief Executive 15 October 2007 16
