13 OPERATIONAL REVIEW OUR MARKET STEVE BURKE We are the countrys leading regeneration CONSTRUCTION DIRECTOR specialist, operating within all sectors of the UK property market.
BILL OLIVER CHIEF EXECUTIVE The property investment market peaked in TIM HAYWOOD the first half of 2007, since when prices for FINANCE DIRECTOR investment properties have fallen.
There is limited transactional evidence to support the various projections being discussed in the market.
The consensus, if there is one, is that prices will fall during 2008 by 1015%, caused by a yield shift 1 of up to 2% on average.
What is ignored is the base from which the fall is taking place.
Prudent appraisals and valuations, which we believe have prudent approach to appraisals, the emphasis on always been our hallmark, are obviously less adding value, and the diversity of our exposure to vulnerable than aspirational ones.
both different property sectors and geographic areas, we also bene t from: The owner of a property without asset management or development opportunities l The size and diversity of the hopper, providing appears to be at the mercy of the market.
the range of opportunity to enable us to align However, our portfolio was created on the our development activities to market needs and principle that we should not hold any property to prevailing conditions which we could not add signi cant value by our l A strong balance sheet with con rmed own efforts.
That puts us in a signi cantly better banking facilities for all our commitments with position than many of our peers.
signi cant headroom for further activity The occupational market remains variable, as l A strong and experienced management, it has been for a considerable time, but it still development and construction team offers good opportunities for an active developer, particularly one who has exposure to a broad range of sectors and geographic areas.
The retail COMPETITIVE AND REGULATORY market is undoubtedly tougher, but the level ENVIRONMENT of interest in our major mixed use town centre schemes remains encouraging.
The business The UK property market is normally extremely park market has remained dif cult, but we have competitive.
Natural barriers to entry are continued to do well in the small of ce unit generally low.
Finance is usually readily available market.
The industrial market remains solid, although the recent credit crunch is likely to with a number of large bespoke requirements see a ight to quality by lenders and advantages supplementing a steady stream of owner-occupier of scale, although they do exist, are limited.
It demand for smaller units.
is rare, therefore, for the company not to be in serious competition whether it is seeking to make Residential land is an important market for us.
an acquisition, to achieve selection as preferred There is undoubtedly a more cautious approach developer, or to secure an occupier.
to this market, but we continue to see good levels of interest for our product of remediated, fully By contrast, the regulatory environment is serviced land with all necessary consents in place.
restrictive and becoming increasingly more so.
Numerous attempts to simplify and speed up Our long-term strategy mitigates the effect of a the planning process have not worked and the dif cult market on St. Modwen.
Apart from the cost and timescale involved in obtaining planning permission continue to escalate with every new initiative, guidance and regulation.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s 14 OPERATIONAL REVIEW However, to a considerable extent, the above the area such as at Bedford, Cran eld, Hat eld, and Thurleigh, and to seek regulatory challenges create an environment out new opportunities.
in which a developer such as St. Modwen with The key to our strategy remains the continuing acquisition of well-located appropriate skills and determination, a strong opportunities to top up the hopper.
balance sheet and a willingness to take the longterm view, can continue to succeed.
The hopper is a bank of development opportunities.
It is: l Long term We seldom source properties for short-term realisation.
The normal development horizon is five years or more.
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY l Broadly based St. Modwen is not a sectoral specialist.
We can The underlying purpose of all St. Modwens successfully deliver a wide range of outputs and, therefore, adjust the mix activity is to add value to the properties it controls.
of our development programme to match market conditions.
The aim is that no property should be acquired or retained unless it is believed that signi cant value l Geographically spread Operating through its regional of ces, St. Modwen can be added to that property by the companys combines the strength of a local developer with the power of a national own efforts asset management, refurbishment company.
or redevelopment over a five to fifteen year l Focused upon regeneration St. Modwen goes where it is needed, rather horizon.
than where it is fashionable, undertaking town centre regeneration, In a declining market, such as the one we are partnering industry in its restructuring, brown eld land renewal, and currently facing, the challenge is even greater.
seek to meet this challenge by a strategy which l Acquired in its rawest state Most added value and more exibility can emphasises value creation, cost control and local be achieved if a developer tackles property and risk from the outset of the market knowledge.
Through a network of regional regeneration process.
of ces, supported by a strong central construction management team, we create a broadly based The hopper comprises more than 5,000 acres of developable land, excluding programme of activity, pulling out of the hopper Coed Darcy, a 1,000 acre site for which we were selected as the preferred the projects for which there is a current market developer in 2007.
The purchase of this site is forecast to complete in 2008. opportunity.
In December 2007 we were pleased This business model requires hands-on management, a skilled committed to announce the expansion of this network to team and a exible medium-term programme of marshalling projects from seven of ces by the creation of a Northern Home the hopper through to the shorter-term development programme.
The Counties region to service our existing schemes in 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s OPERATIONAL REVIEW 15 VULCAN WORKS, NEWTON-LE-WILLOWS ANOTHER MAJOR DEMOLITION PROJECT WITH 600,000 SQ FT DEMOLISHED TO DATE AND INITIAL INFRASTRUCTURE DUE TO COMMENCE TO OPEN UP 40 ACRES OF RESIDENTIAL LAND A PARTNERSHIP PROJECT WITH KPI FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The company has a financial model with an ambition to double net consistency of future performance depends on the asset value per share every five years.
This has been achieved for over a successful interaction of these elements.
decade, and still remains the companys key long-term target.
It should be Another important aspect of our business model emphasised that this is a five-year target and does not assume a straightis long-term partnerships with the public sector line progression of 15% per annum compound.
In volatile periods, such as and other major landowners, having more such the present, annual progression will undershoot the average, but this will arrangements than any other comparable company.
hopefully be balanced by outperformance in more favourable years.
All development and property management Our key performance indicator for return on equity has been amended activity is undertaken by the regional of ces, to incorporate the effect of tax, and as such a post-tax return of 17.5% supported and supplemented by a strong central equivalent to the previous pre-tax target of 25% is now targeted.
team, providing construction, planning, financial, and commercial expertise.
Net assets per share Return on 1 2 Year Growth Equity EMPLOYEES 2007 20.0% 21.9% One of the major challenges for the company is 2006 20.3% 21.3% to recruit and retain a team capable of handling 2005 22.0% 22.9% the range and complexity of projects which we 2004 25.2% 21.3% undertake.
Many of our key staff have been with 2003 15.4% 19.1% us for a number years, but that core needs regular Cumulative 154% Average 21.3% replenishment with recruits of as good, if not Target 100% 17.5% better, quality.
1 Net asset gures prior to 30th November 2004 are restated on an IFRS basis, but do not re ect the reclassi cation of certain work in progress assets and their subsequent revaluation.
One of the prerequisites of staff retention is the 2 Return on equity pro t after tax as a percentage of average equity.
provision of career development opportunities.
Our growing size now enables and, indeed, The companys other key performance indicator is to replace opportunities requires us to put in place more structured used in the year by new acquisitions at a rate of 120%.
In the past year this career paths than previously.
This is evidenced by KPI was not achieved: land used amounted to 224 acres and developable the promotions in the year to Regional Director land acquired totalled 211 acres.
However, sigini cant progress was made on of Rupert Joseland and Stephen Prosser, and of negotiations on the Coed Darcy opportunity which, on completion, would add Rupert Wood to Regional Manager in our new a further 420 developable acres.
Northern Home Counties of ce.
We now have suf cient critical mass to embark DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS on a more structured people development THE HOPPER ASSEMBLY AND ACQUISITION programme, and have recruited a people 2007 was another active year with 28 acquisitions, including 12 new sites and development manager to initiate such a programme in early 2008.
This will help us grow 16 for land assembly exercises at our mixed use town centre projects.
talented people who will be the drivers of the Our total expenditure on acquisitions including 100% of joint ventures companys future expansion.
We encourage during the year was 56m.
As a result, the hopper including 100% of joint employees to improve their skills by obtaining ventures now stands at 7,621 acres, of which 5,045 is developable.
349 of additional relevant quali cations, and support these developable acres have an intended future retail leisure use: 2,358 them by appropriate paid time-off for study and by acres for employment: 1,165 acres for residential: and 1,173 acres for as yet payment for courses and course materials.
We have also strengthened the central services Signi cant acquisitions during the period included: team to support the growth of the regional teams, with the recruitment in the year of a company l Whitley The acquisition of 53 acres of surplus land near Coventry, from secretary, financial controller, internal auditor, Jaguar and the City Council opens the way for the creation of a high-class and a further regional financial controller.
business park, for which outline planning consent already exists.
This has enabled the regions to expand their l Eccles A 36-acre chemical works in Salford, Manchester.
The site was operational activities, whilst a strong central purchased from Akcros Chemicals Ltd which has taken two occupational framework of procedures and control is leases of 30 years and 6 years.
It adjoins Eccles town centre, and has maintained.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s 16 OPERATIONAL REVIEW VULCAN MAGNA SIT AMET JUS TO ULTRICES DIGNISSIM.
INTEGER ELEMENTUM DUI EGET LIBERO.
MARSHALLING medium-term opportunities for mixed use We have continued to make good progress in marshalling projects for future development.
delivery, as evidenced by the quantity and quality of planning permissions obtained in the year, as detailed in the table below.
l Worcester 20 acres, strategically located between M5 Junctions 6 and 7.
The City of PLANNING PERMISSIONS OBTAINED IN THE YEAR Worcester Local Plan identi es the land as No.
Sq Ft Units being a potential relocation site for Worcester Residential 18 7,806 City Football Club, with whom a development Retail 14 1,087,000 agreement has been exchanged.
Commercial 29 5,587,000 l Widnes The acquisition of 14 acres from Of ce 10 933,000 Croda and the adjoining 20 acre council site, In particular, we obtained planning consent on the following major schemes: has assembled a major employment site in l Llanwern Outline planning consent was obtained for this major mixed Widnes Waterfront.
use development which is described in greater detail in the case study Many of the assets in our hopper are, not acquired section.
outright, with control being obtained through development agreements.
This trend continued l Rugby Planning consent has been obtained for the mixed use during 2007 with our selection as preferred redevelopment by Key Property Investments KPI, our joint venture with developer for a number of important projects, Salhia Real Estate KSC of 100 acres of the former GEC industrial estates including: in Rugby, including a new campus for Warwickshire College, 100,000 sq ft of employment accommodation and 770 dwellings.
l Medway The company has been chosen l Great Homer Street, Liverpool Outline planning consent was obtained for as Medway Councils preferred investment this major mixed use development which is described in greater detail in partner to deliver long-term investment to the case study section.
transform Medway into the new city of the Thames Gateway.
l Vulcan Works, Newton-le-Willows Part of the KPI Alstom portfolio and also a joint venture with Ashtenne Ltd on our combined sites.
l Walthamstow Selected by Waltham Forest The successful outcome of the calling in inquiry resulted in planning Council for the Arcade site in respect of which permission for 630 homes on the overall 64 acre site.
Work on the initial a development agreement has now been infrastructure has begun.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 17 LONGBRIDGE INNOVATION CENTRE s THE FIRST OUTPUT FROM LONGBRIDGES REGENERATION A 45,000 SQ FT INNOVATION CENTRE NOW OVER 50% OCCUPIED DEVELOPED IN CONJUNCTION WITH AWM Elsewhere we continue to move forward the l Farnborough The 80m redevelopment of the town centre, including planning position on major sites: a 50,000 sq ft foodstore pre-sold to Sainsburys, began in May and the current phases should be completed in 2008 2009. l Yalding A planning application has been submitted for the mixed use redevelopment of Our substantial construction programme continues to deliver new schemes this former Syngenta site, comprising 315,000 for future years: sq ft of employment space and 350 residential l Longbridge Technology Park The 45,000 sq ft Innovation Centre has been units.
completed and is being let to a range of technology-based businesses, with l Longbridge A preferred option has been more than 50% now occupied.
identi ed from the consultation process on l Edmonton Green The leisure centre at the heart of this 100m mixed use the Area Action Plan.
This crystallises the scheme is now open.
The residential units have been handed over to our shape of the sites future development for an Housing Association partners, four months ahead of programme.
Work employment-led mixed use scheme, and should on the next phase, the construction of a 66,000 sq ft ASDA foodstore and be adopted by late 2008. additional retail units, is well underway.
Signi cant achievements on our major town l Quedgeley, Gloucestershire 30,445 sq ft of the second phase of centre projects include: distribution industrial units now under construction has been pre-let, l Wythenshawe The latest phase of the 130m while a further 91,000 sq ft will be available by the spring.
regeneration of the town centre has been It is in the nature of our business that occasional setbacks are encountered, launched with the opening of a new 20m Asda and not all of the progress in this period has therefore been positive.
Planning applications have been However, the diversity and range of the hopper is a key strength of the submitted for a further 55,000 sq ft of retail, company, meaning that no individual project is critical to our overall success.
leisure and of ce development.
Two such events that arose during this period were: l Hat eld The 100m mixed use regeneration l St Matthews Quarter, Walsall We were saddened that the listed scheme was further advanced by the exchange Shannons Mill building, which was to form the centrepiece of our 40m of a key agreement with the Royal Mail, and the retail and residential regeneration scheme, was lost to an arson attack grant of the CPO.
Although this event will delay and may alter the ultimate l Basingstoke An 87,000 sq ft anchor store has development, we were fully insured and expect to suffer no financial loss.
been sold on a long lease to Primark.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 18 OPERATIONAL REVIEW l Elephant & Castle We were disappointed not l Boughton Road, Rugby 10 acres of residential land, part of a former to be selected by Southwark Borough Council factory site acquired by KPI from Marconi in 2002.
The site was sold to for its proposed 2bn redevelopment.
However, Taylor Wimpey for 15m, following the granting of outline planning consent as we are the owners of a key part of the site, for 270 homes.
we will work with the selected developers Development and lettings in the industrial distribution sector have also been and Southwark to maximise the value of our signi cant.
During the year we completed 1,100,000 sq ft of new buildings holdings.
All bid costs had been written off as and 450,000 sq ft of refurbishments, including: they were incurred.
l Trafford Park, Manchester A pre-let of a 430,000 sq ft distribution centre to adidas for its UK headquarters forward sold by KPI to NFU Mutual for DELIVERY 33m.
The building was completed in November.
The year saw more than 100 transactions l Barton Business Park, Burton upon Trent A 150,000 sq ft distribution completed.
unit sold by Barton Business Park Limited a joint venture with Prologis to Residential land sales from our brown eld Close Brothers for 9.5m.
land renewal programme have again gured l Trentham Lakes and Centre 500 Construction and sale of a number of prominently in the year with disposals at: speculatively built employment buildings totalling 140,000 sq ft. l RAF Eastcote The first disposal from the l Longbridge Sale of a 21,000 sq ft existing unit at Cofton Centre, and MoDEL portfolio, a 19 acre residential land sale commencement of construction of two speculative units totalling 75,000 to Taylor Wimpey for 60m.
sq ft, an early phase of the wider Longbridge regeneration programme.
l RAF West Ruislip Also from the MoDEL In order to fund this construction and remediation programme, it has been portfolio, a 21 acre residential land sale a consistent policy of the company to recycle its capital resources by selling to Cala Homes for 81m, after obtaining completed developments and any assets where it is no longer possible for planning consent for 415 homes and an 80 unit us to add further signi cant value.
To this end, we disposed of Junction 7 retirement home.
Business Park, Accrington to GE Capital for 25m.
This 50 acre managed l Guiseley 7 acres of residential land, acquired estate, acquired by KPI in 2001 as part of the Marconi portfolio, had been as part of the Invensys portfolio in 2002, sold successfully asset managed and 4 acres have been retained for new to Bellway for 12m after obtaining planning speculative development.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s OPERATIONAL REVIEW 19 CRANFIELD TECHNOLOGY PARK A PARTNERSHIP WITH CRANFIELD UNIVERSITY.
THE LATEST PHASE OF CONSTRUCTION PROVIDES THIS HIGH QUALITY 39,000 SQ FT MULTI OCCUPATION OFFICE FACILITY FOR FIRMS GROWING OUT OF THE INNOVATION CENTRE We have also ended our 18-year association with We continue to devote considerable resources to improving both the value horse racing with the sale of Northern Racing and income of the property we own through a variety of asset management PLC.
The amount realised for the groups 27.2% activities.
During the year ended 30th November 2007, our in-house team shareholding was 17.7m, an uplift of 6.7m on our undertook: carrying value a very successful conclusion to the l 86 lease renewals, securing rent roll of 1.5m: earliest of our property related operating activities.
l 144 rent reviews, achieving an uplift in rents of 0.7m 12% : and Our construction team, at the end of the year, l 310 new lettings, producing additional rent roll of 7.8m.
were on site with 50 schemes including 5 major town centre regeneration projects: ground which more than offset the 305 vacations rent roll 7.4m.
remediation works at Llanwern, Longbridge, At Trentham, despite very poor summer weather, the gardens attracted Goodyear, Etruria Valley and Goodyear: and the 150,000 visitors 2006: 133,000 and, with a total of 2.2m visitors to the site provision of 1,700,000 sq ft of employment space.
2006: 2.1m, and the completion of the second phase of the retail scheme, a This extensive construction activity will form trading pro t before interest of 0.9m 2006: 0.3m was achieved.
Extensive the backbone of our development programme works continued on this heritage restoration scheme, with the completion of for 2008 and will ensure that we have available the 120-bedroom hotel that has been pre-let to Golden Tulip subsequently product in all sectors and all regions.
This will be acquired by Whitbread.
initiated in stages depending on the success of [For further details of projects referred to in this business review, and other previous phases, levels of interest, and market projects, see our website www.
TULIP HOTEL, TRENTHAM GARDENS A 120 BEDROOM HOTEL FOR WHITBREAD, RECENTLY COMPLETED AS PART OF THE COMPANYS 100M TRENTHAM GARDENS PROJECT IN PARTNERSHIP WITH MR WILLI REITZ 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s s
