The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 16 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review Nordic Our management teams are targeting our There is a growing awareness of the benets Nordic services to new market areas, such as local of our hygiene solution with recognition We are seeing more growth in higher communities, which require service providers of our brand.
Despite the relative immaturity margin workwear and facilities of scale who can manage the additional of the facilities business, we have approximately and we have invested in our salesforce logistics of a workforce on the move.
55,000 customers across Denmark and Sweden this year.
We have seen good organic Our approach, throughout all our businesses, and this already provides density for our growth in 2007. is to be a total solutions provider, managing operations to deliver good margins.
This has the needs of the customer, rather than given us the confidence to invest further in Growth year on year 2007 2006 a provider of commodity products.
our salesforce with the rate of net new sales Revenue h 10% 4% growth becoming stronger as 2007 progressed.
We are also growing new concepts, such as Adjusted operating profit 7% 7% provision of washable shoes.
The opportunity Our Bjrnklder business is a direct workwear for our facilities business, washroom and and protection equipment supplier with Adjusted operating margin x 16.6% 17.1% mat services is strong in these markets with a strong brand, which has a network of retail Before exceptional items and amortisation relatively low levels of penetration particularly outlets in Sweden.
We have expanded of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
in washroom, where we estimate roller towels the network by seven shops in 2007 through Our Nordic region covers the country to account for less than a 10% market share.
acquisition, in line with our growth plans, operations in Denmark, Sweden including and the business grew 20% in revenues.
our direct sales business Bjrnklder, Norway Although its margin is below the average and Finland.
In January 2008, we agreed Achievements in 2007 of our other textile maintenance businesses to acquire textile maintenance businesses it made a good contribution to profits.
k Good organic revenue growth in the Baltic countries of Estonia, Latvia across the region Our Norwegian business is very well placed and Lithuania.
We are market leader across in a strong economy where textile maintenance k Stronger new sales growth the region as a whole, with 46 plants is relatively immature and we are clear market as the year progressed and 2,900 staff.
We invested this year k Bjrnklders footprint extended Revenue in our Nordic region increased in a new workwear plant in Bergen and we by seven stores through acquisition 10% to 263.8 million 238.8 million have already replaced at substantially higher with adjusted operating profit up 7% k New workwear plant opened in Bergen margins the revenues we disposed of with to 43.8 million 41.0 million.
Organic our last remaining at linen plant in 2006. revenue growth was 7%.
Priorities in 2008 The region benefited from strong economic k Target new market sectors for our growth in the year.
In our largest markets services and develop new concepts in the region, Denmark and Sweden, k Target expansion of our facilities real GDP growth was 2% and 3% respectively business, washroom and mat services with low levels of unemployment.
Although the Danish and Swedish markets have higher k Enter the Baltic region through overall levels of penetration for our textile acquisitions of textile maintenance maintenance service, they still offer good operations opportunities for growth.
46 Number of plants we operate, 2900 Number of people we employ The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 17 Governance Financial statements Investors Developing market segments In order to do this we need to deal with the Although Denmark is one of our most mature logistics of collecting and returning garments markets, with revenues of approximately to workers who are not based in a single 100 million, we are continuing to see site but whose job keeps them on the move.
opportunities to develop our service offering.
The local community services see the benefit In 2007 we have been developing our of professional standards in maintaining services to local communities whose staff are garments presentation and cleanliness of providing care services to people at home.
garments while people being visited in their homes take assurance from this.
Growing our markets The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 18 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review continued Nordic Customers are increasingly appreciating These economies are developing strongly the benets of the total customer care solution as a result of their recent membership and we are delivering innovative services, of the European Union and our acquisitions such as the Unimat system for 24 hours give us good entry positions in a core a day automated dispensing of garments service area on which we can build our at customer premises.
Our underlying organic operations and brand awareness while growth in Norway, excluding the disposed developing a service offering in workwear, business, was in excess of 10%.
We entered the Finnish market in 2005.
The investments we have made over the last As expected, we have incurred minor losses two years in the Nordic region are now fully in the start up phase of our operations but integrated and performing well.
There was we see Finland as a buoyant market with less opportunity this year for bolt-on profitable growth opportunities in which acquisitions but we still invested 8.9 million we intend to invest.
There are a small number of potential bolt-on targets In January 2008, we entered the Baltic region for our textile maintenance businesses but with our textile service operations.
We acquired we remain cautious about timing.
a small but leading mat business in Estonia and the market leader in mat services in Latvia.
We agreed to purchase the market leader in Lithuania.
The total consideration for these acquisitions is 12.6 million.
2007 has been a good year in terms of sales results, strategy fullment and therefore the motivation and culture of Sales and Marketing in Denmark Niels Peter Hansen Sales Director, Denmark Bergen Having exited the unprofitable at linen business in Norway in 2006 we re-invested this year in a new workwear plant in Bergen.
The design of Bergen has been captured as a standard template for garments and facilities plants and we are using this in Poland.
Norway is a fast growing market for us with growth in excess of 10% in 2007.
This will enable us to process the additional volume through the new plant, improve productivity and capture as quickly as possible an acceptable or high return on the investment that we have made.
CL2000, Sweden The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 19 Governance Financial statements Investors Bjrnklder We have expanded our network of retail outlets in Sweden by seven shops in 2007 and our revenues grew 20% overall.
This is a strong brand in the Swedish market and we have already established one outlet in Estonia.
Our plan is to expand further into the Baltic region and in Finland.
Why should I choose shoes from Berendsen?
There are many advantages to our Berendsen shoe service.
We will take care of everything: purchase, administration and handling of your shoes.
You will also get: Good service and high quality Better image for staff and customers Increased lifespan of the shoe Better control and lower cost Lower administrative expenses No purchase cost, which will free capital One supplier fewer invoices
