Operating & Financial Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Insurance market conditions Risk & Insurance Retail Operations remain very competitive as Turnover for our retail businesses Turnover for the Risk & many insurers continue to showed strong growth of 8% to Insurance Group grew by 3% 196.8 million, of which 5% was protect and build market to 390.3 million or 4% at attributable to strategically important share.
We see no reason to constant rates of exchange bolt-on acquisitions.
The overall trading believe that this is going to margin was 19% compared to 21% and trading profit was 63.3 change in the short or even in 2006. million compared to 61.4 medium term while there million in 2006, producing a The reasons for the decline in the overall remains an excess of capital trading margin for our retail operations trading margin of 16%, or combined with the recent was a combination of poor results from 17% at constant rates of relatively benign claims Latin America, which was attributable to exchange, compared to 16% experience.
In addition, Mexico which had a difficult year, the for the prior year.
there is intense competition continued investment in our insurance management business and finally the between brokers to win and This business group integration of our new offices in Italy, retain business.
comprises our retail Spain and Poland acquired early in 2007 operations around the Incentive commissions PSAs as part of the SIACI transaction.
world, together with our received during 2007 reinsurance, specialist risk amounted to 3.5 million and insurance businesses and continue to represent which are largely London less than 1% of the Groups based.
RISK & INSURANCE What We Do Risk & Insurance provides broking and risk management services for clients across an extensive range of business sectors.
Employing approximately 4,000 people, the principal lines of business are: Retail: An international group of retail businesses successful in their local, national and international markets.
Specialist: A world class group of specialist teams, serving the particular needs of clients in selected industries.
Wholesale: One of the largest dedicated wholesalers, providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with access to insurance capacity in London, Bermuda and Continental Europe.
Reinsurance: A reinsurance broker with established areas of specialist expertise, a commitment to bring a more analytical approach and a wider variety of risk management solutions.
10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review Advisory - General corporate and Australia and New Zealand continued to UK and Europe industry focus, providing a achieve good growth despite over In the UK and Europe, turnover comprehensive service to a wide supply of underwriting capacity and a increased 16% to 60.0 million with a variety of mid-sized companies.
good recovery shown in the second half These Australasian businesses add of the year as anticipated at the time of Non Advisory - Specialist schemes substantially to the capabilities of the the interim results.
The trading margin and affinity businesses offering Group with more than 800 staff across for the year was 17% compared to services across diverse markets, 18 offices in Australia and 4 offices in 20% in 2006.
This reflected the cost of ranging from professions, social New Zealand.
the expansion of our existing UK Ireland housing and service industries to the business together with the development leisure and veterinary care industries.
Much of the growth was achieved by of new operations in two key areas: the Risk Services operation which Both areas are supported through obtained significant revenue increases in Europe - with the addition of offices our network of offices in the UK and the risk management, consultancy and in Italy, Spain and Poland.
Online trading - with the addition of Whilst premium rate reductions This was particularly so in Western Pavilion Insurance Network, now had a negative impact in our Non Australia and South Australia.
Advisory division and we experienced In the retail segments, Affinity, Natural fierce competition on fees in our Our retail insurance broking business in Resources & Construction and ProEx Advisory division, overall the business the UK was restructured and changed achieved double digit growth in revenue performed well.
its name from JLT Corporate Risks Ltd to with Regional and Joint Venture Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Limited.
Australasia Other segments maintained revenue Now operating from nine offices in the Australia and New Zealand produced a levels despite the prevailing difficult UK and six in Europe, our business strong result with turnover increasing by market conditions.
trades in two distinct areas: 10% to 65.6 million, generating a trading margin of 25%, compared to 26% in 2006.
The fall in trading profit margin to 17% reflected the cost of expansion of our existing business and the addition of European offices in Poland, Italy and Spain.
Australasia TRADING MARGIN TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT 07 65.6m 07 16.3m 25% 26% 06 59.8m 06 15.7m 2007 2006 Australia and New Zealand continued to achieve good growth despite an over supply of underwriting capacity and a fiercely competitive broker market.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 11 Review of Operations Operating & Financial Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS JLT Lixin, our majority owned joint Asia Canada venture business in mainland China, Asia achieved a good result with In Canada, turnover grew by 2% to completed its first full year of operations turnover increasing by 6% to 18.5 million.
This was a satisfactory and extended its licensed branch 33.2 million, producing a trading result and the business is well presence to Shanghai and Beijing in margin of 21%, compared to 20% in positioned entering 2008. addition to our headquarters in the prior year.
JLT has seven offices and more than 200 Guangzhou.
The business continues During the year we acquired two new staff in four of the ten Canadian to grow rapidly in this exciting businesses to complement our provinces - Ontario, Quebec, Alberta marketplace and is already the largest substantial regional platform of more and British Columbia.
In addition to broker in Guangdong Province.
than 600 staff operating in 12 major general corporate business, our These developments will allow us to territories in the region.
The first, in specialities include natural resources, further leverage our international Osaka, Japan, helps broaden our construction and public sector business.
specialist expertise and introduce clients footprint beyond our traditional market to products and services that have been Highlights of the year included a strong of Tokyo and the second, JLT Private tried and tested in worldwide markets.
performance by our natural resource Client Services, based in Singapore and group and professional group in Towards the end of the year, we were Hong Kong, provides us with a Calgary, and the performance of our informed that our application to open a significant position in the specialist life Victoria and Guildford offices in British licensed brokerage in Vietnam had been market for high net worth individuals.
We continue to seek critical approved and this will offer a further Both acquisitions produced encouraging mass in Ontario and Quebec through opportunity to develop new products performances that bode well for the acquisition or recruitment.
and services in a nascent high growth future.
JLT's Canadian operations continue to Our specialist construction, energy & grow and perform well.
Our strength in Whilst insurance rates across most industry risks teams won a number of natural resources and infrastructure property & casualty lines continue to high profile new clients in Hong Kong, construction will provide the Group with soften throughout Asia, our diversified Macau, Singapore and Thailand and our continued growth opportunities in geography and product mix places us in employee benefits practice produced Canada.
a strong position to maintain our another very strong result with growth forward momentum.
in turnover of 40% and major new client acquisitions in Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, Macau and Hong Kong.
Asia TRADING PROFIT TURNOVER TRADING MARGIN 07 07 33.2m 6.9m 21% 20% 06 06 31.3m 6.4m 2007 2006 Whilst insurance rates across most property & casualty lines continue to soften throughout Asia, our diversified geography and product mix places us in a strong position to maintain our forward momentum.
Canada TURNOVER TRADING MARGIN TRADING PROFIT 07 07 2.5m 18.5m 13% 14% 06 06 2.6m 18.1m 2007 2006 Our strength in natural resources and infrastructure construction will provide the Group with continued growth opportunities in Canada.
12 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review downward pricing pressure with the Within the captive arena, the units client Latin America exception of risks exposed to the US and portfolio is very diverse, however, the Like China and India, Latin America is a central American catastrophe market.
company has been particularly successful major growth market but unlike those in establishing a reputation for superior markets, it has a long and wellservice and for expertise in the areas of established insurance broking industry.
Insurance Management energy, life sciences, financial services Our business spans retail and reinsurance During 2007, JLTs captive management and aviation.
covering Mexico, Colombia, Peru and operations were rebranded to become Brazil, which in total employ over 500 JLT Insurance Management.
Today, it Since the beginning of 2007, JLT has people in 17 offices.
In addition, we employs a total of 35 staff providing been broadening its resources in have a network of relationships with insurance management services in Insurance Management through further correspondent brokers in Chile, Bermuda, Guernsey, Malta and investment in professional staff and this Argentina, Ecuador and Venezuela.
strategy has already seen significant new business wins and we are confident that Turnover in the region declined 11% to Revenue was 3.4 million for the year, we will see the benefit of this investment 16.1million, with a trading margin of an increase of 15%.
As anticipated, in terms of its contribution to the 8% compared to 19% in the prior year.
the business generated a small trading Group's profit in 2008.
This was a disappointing result loss for the year as a result of the attributable to our Mexican business but investment required to expand the range effective action is being taken to Associates of services provided.
reposition the business for growth.
Following the completion of the merger This business is now positioned to take Our other businesses fared well.
of JLT's French associate SIACI with greater advantage of the opportunities ASCH in the first half of the year, JLT The Latin American businesses continue to provide management and consulting became a 20% shareholder in the newly to produce a meaningful flow of services beyond the traditional captive formed holding company of those revenue into the wholesale operations insurance market.
In particular, it is businesses, Newstone Courtage.
active in the provision of services to As part of this transaction, we took commercial insurance and reinsurance Our immediate focus will be to achieve management control of the former companies with offshore operations, organic growth in the region whilst SIACI businesses in Italy, Poland and as well as to capital markets providers continuing to strengthen its relationship Spain.
The aggregate contribution to involved in the convergence between with the rest of the JLT Group.
We will profit from the merged entity was those markets and the reinsurance also look to make further selective 2.7 million.
The contribution from SIACI industry.
Both the Bermuda and investments.
formerly 32% owned in 2006 was Guernsey offices are especially focused 2.6 million.
In terms of outlook for 2008, most lines on these areas of activity.
of business continue to experience Latin America TRADING MARGIN TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT 07 16.1m 07 1.3m 8% 19% 06 18.0m 06 3.5m 2007 2006 This was a disappointing result but effective action is being taken to reposition our business in Mexico for growth.
Insurance Management TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT TRADING MARGIN 07 3.4m 0.7m 07 22% 8% 06 2.9m 0.2m 06 2007 2006 JLT has been broadening its resources in insurance management through further investment.
We are confident that we will see the benefit of this investment in terms of its contribution to the Group's profit in 2008.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 13 Review of Operations Operating & Financial Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS to a significant degree been offset by Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd London Market Specialist the very strong underlying fundamentals In Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited, businesses in a number of the industry specialties turnover was 109.1 million, up 2% Our London Market businesses where we have a position of leadership or 3% at constant rates of exchange, reported turnover of 193.5 - in particular the Marine, Construction producing a trading margin of 14% for million, down 2% or 1% at and Energy sectors.
the year, compared to 8% for 2006. constant rates of exchange.
The increase in trading margin Amongst JLTL's businesses, significant This reflected general insurance represents a significant recovery, structural changes at Windpro have market conditions and US dollar reflecting the delivery of the cost resulted in it being better positioned weakness which impacted savings programme.
The previously than ever to take advantage of the revenues and trading profits by stated target trading margin for this numerous exciting opportunities within business was 15% by 2008 and this has some 2.3 million compared to the renewable energy sector.
Windpro now been increased to a target margin 2006.
The trading margin for our continues to have its own dedicated of 20% by 2011.
London market businesses brand but now under the new and expanded GCube platform.
This will improved from 12% to 14% While organic revenue growth was enable it to consolidate not only its notwithstanding our significant modest at 2%, or 3% at constant rates existing very strong leadership position investment in people post our of exchange, it was still a strong in the wind market but also allow it to performance in the current very London market restructure.
build out into the broader renewable competitive trading conditions and The net annualised cost savings disciplines including bio-fuels, solar underlines how this business is now achieved in 2007 by the energy and hydro projects.
once again firmly on the front foot.
restructuring of our London The work of the last 18 months, much Market businesses was JLT Reinsurance Brokers Ltd of which has concentrated on sound approximately 10 million Turnover for JLT Re, our Global and judicious cost management, has including 8 million arising from Reinsurance practice was 43.2 million resulted in JLTL establishing a robust restructuring completed in 2006. for the year, down 8% on 2006, platform from which the business can The savings are reflected in the or 5% at constant rates of exchange.
There has been a clear shift significantly improved trading The trading margin for the year was in emphasis throughout the company 11% or 13% at constant rates of performance of our London whereby the focus is now very much on exchange, compared to 10% for 2006.
Market businesses despite business development in all our wholesale and retail specialist areas.
The programme of sustained investment Soft insurance market conditions and and transformation of our reinsurance challenging economic background have Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT TRADING MARGIN 07 07 109.1m 15.0m 14% 8% 06 8.5m 06 106.8m 2007 2006 The increase in trading margin represents a significant recovery, reflecting the delivery of the cost savings programme.
The previously stated target trading margin for this business was 15% by 2008 and this has now been increased to a target trading margin of 20% by 2011.
JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT TRADING MARGIN 07 43.2m 07 4.9m 11% 10% 06 06 47.2m 4.6m 2007 2006 For JLT Re, 2007 was the second year of our five year plan to build out our reinsurance business and we will continue to make considered investments and expect to see both revenue and margin growth through the coming year.
14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review activities started in early 2005 with the reinsurance business and we will As a result, in addition to continued objective of building a business that can continue to make considered development in its traditional US deliver a broad range of risk transfer investments and expect to see both heartland, Lloyd & Partners now has a solutions alongside high quality advisory revenue and margin growth through wider territorial focus including services.
Australia, Asia, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Africa.
During the year we did see a decline in This is a somewhat evolutionary process reinsurance broking revenues but this as we transform a historic transaction - Throughout 2007, Lloyd & Partners was largely due to the deliberate based operation into a model that concentrated on building a solid decision to exit some low margin delivers the far more sophisticated risk platform for the future.
Significant business, the result of which can be management approach that is investment has been made in bringing seen in the improving trading margin, demanded by our clients today.
on board additional skills through key and the impact of the merger of two of hires in London where the headcount As we grow we have continued to our largest reinsurance clients noted at has grown by some 13% and also attract senior reinsurance practitioners, the time of our interim results.
through the acquisition of Park which has enabled us to extend the Bermuda Ltd.
The business now has a The headwinds of falling insurance range of skillsets at our disposal.
more balanced product and skill base in rates, the increased retention of risk by both locations and a wider reach.
clients and the continued weakness of Lloyd & Partners Limited the dollar has impacted our traditional The 2007 results reflect the impact of Turnover for Lloyd & Partners was 41.2 areas of strength being marine & energy the investment in people highlighted million, 5% behind prior year or 3% at and aviation, albeit that in marine & above and also the continuation of constant rates of exchange, with a energy we made up most of the loss challenging market conditions trading margin of 17% compared to through new business production.
This was in 24% in the prior year.
brings our decision to invest into the addition to the impact of staff and In conjunction with the restructure of non-marine side of our activities more consequent client losses in Bermuda the London Market businesses at the into focus and through a combined which occurred earlier in the year and beginning of 2007, Lloyd & Partners treaty, facultative and analytical prior to the Park acquisition.
was given a new mandate for the approach we have grown our nonWe believe that we will begin to see in development of wholesale business marine book of business by over 20% 2008 the benefit of the investments we on a global basis.
At the same time the year-on-year.
have made in Lloyd & Partners, both in company assumed responsibility for For JLT Re, 2007 was the second year of London and Bermuda, and this will lead our wholesale broking operation in our five year plan to build out our to an improvement in the profit margin.
Lloyd & Partners Limited TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT TRADING MARGIN 07 07 41.2m 6.8m 17% 24% 06 43.1m 06 10.2m 2007 2006 Throughout 2007, Lloyd & Partners concentrated on building a solid platform for the future.
We believe that we will begin to see in 2008 the benefit of the investments we have made and this will lead to an improvement in the profit margin.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 15 Review of Operations Operating & Financial Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS In our administration business, it has Market review Employee Benefits been a year of change.
Considerable There have been significant areas in progress has been made in improving Turnover for the Employee which progress has been made.
the quality and transparency of our The defined benefit pension scheme Benefits Division was 81.5 operational delivery and reducing industry has been evolving rapidly in million for the year, an operations costs.
Administration 2007, with considerable attention being increase of 7% over 2006. functions are now being carried out in paid by sponsoring companies to the Trading profit was 13.7 our facility in Mumbai, and two mitigation of deficits, contribution administration facilities in the UK have million, compared to 13.1 obligations and overall risk mitigation been closed.
We have secured further strategies.
In this environment our million in 2006, producing a new business wins, including James launch of Pension Capital Strategies has trading margin of 17%, Walker and Vivendi Entertainment and proven a significant success, both in unchanged on the prior year.
enjoyed high levels of client retention.
retaining work on existing client The acquisition of Portland Pensions Our medium term aim is schemes and in winning business from was in line with our wish to acquire new clients.
We have secured a market delivery of a 20% trading companies in the administration sector leading position as provider of services profit margin for this with stable businesses and which to new entrants to the bulk buy-out business.
operate on our Profund software pension scheme solutions marketplace platform, thus making for ease of with Met Life now also a long term This business has continued to integration.
produce satisfactory growth Our Pensions software business, notwithstanding that 2007 Profund, made further progress, with a was a year of generally lower number of new oPen product implementations, and the recent activity within the industry acquisition of Aviary, a leading pensions when compared to 2006 accounting software product.
New which had been a year of clients and system implementations in significant legal, regulatory the year include Pendragon, Rexam, and tax changes.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS What We Do Employee Benefits employs over 1,000 professional staff in 13 offices in the UK and Ireland.
Consulting - we offer a range of advice in the field of pensions, investment and employee benefits to companies, trustees and private individuals.
Outsourcing - we manage pension schemes and employee benefit programmes for our clients independently or connected to our consulting role.
Clients, include companies, pension schemes and financial institutions.
Software - We develop and implement software solutions to support the management of pension schemes.
Clients include small and large pension funds and Third Party Administrators.
16 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review We have invested in our actuarial and The Pensions Regulator continues to Market environment investment consulting practices to influence the industry and its We expect to see a continuation of reflect the type of advice now required development, at times in a material way.
activity in defined benefit pensions.
by clients and the market opportunities This has led, amongst other things, to The considerable volatility in investment we see available, and these practices greater demand for independent markets coupled with a competitive have secured new clients and mandates trustees which has in turn resulted in an buy-out market should ensure that in the year.
increased number of appointments for companies will remain focused on risk our own trustee company, Independent transfer solutions.
The closure of a Reflecting employer focus on broader Trustee Services Limited.
number of larger deals in the buy-out employee benefits and defined market is also likely to maintain the contribution pension provision, we have impetus here.
committed increased resources to our defined contribution and flexible We are seeing an increase in demand benefits practices and enjoyed good for portal and other employee year on year growth in these areas.
communications services to support the development of defined contribution pension schemes and accompanying benefits.
We see opportunities to grow our Private Client advisory division as demand for pensions and related investment advice post A Day continues to be strong.
Employee Benefits TURNOVER TRADING PROFIT TRADING MARGIN 07 81.5m 07 13.7m 17% 17% 06 06 13.1m 75.9m 2007 2006 Turnover for the Employee Benefits Division was 81.5 million for the year, an increase of 7% over 2006.
This business has continued to produce satisfactory growth notwithstanding that 2007 was a year of generally lower activity within the industry.
Our medium term aim is delivery of a 20% trading profit margin for this business.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 17 Review of Operations
