Business Review Operating Review In 2006 07 demand was stronger, CCM supply was tighter and prices increased.
Total European and UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Market Overview Corrugated Packaging Market Indices The European market for corrugated packaging is involved in loading goods onto store shelves and lowering Tonnes index 2000 100 estimated to be approximately 18 billion, equivalent the amount of damage to goods in-store, while enabling to approximately 21 million tonnes or 39 billion square products to be presented more attractively.
RRP requires 1 metres, of which the UK market is estimated to be more sophisticated packaging manufacturing capabilities approximately 10%.
Demand for corrugated packaging for cutting, printing and gluing the corrugated board to is principally inuenced by overall economic activity form the more complicated box structures.
The increased and manufacturing output.
proportion of these higher added-value boxes, often requiring multi-passes within the production process, In the calendar year 2006, the European market by 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 has absorbed some of the excess capacity across the weight for corrugated packaging grew by 3.1% corrugated industry.
Supply of corrugated board and Europe including UK 2 2005: 0.9%.
In western Europe the market grew by boxes is generally relatively local to the point of production, UK 2.5% 2005: 0.3% while growth in eastern and central with a typical operational radius of approximately 150 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers Europe continued to be much stronger at 7.7% 2005: miles, owing to customers service requirements and the 5.8%.
DS Smiths principal markets are the UK, where proportionately high transport costs for a low-density demand by weight was at 2005: a fall of 1.9%, product.
Pricing and margins in corrugated packaging France and Italy, where it grew moderately by 0.9% are strongly inuenced by developments in the price and 2.2% respectively 2005: 0.3% and nil, and Poland of corrugated case material CCM, the paper that is and Turkey, where it grew more strongly, by 4.7% and the principal component in corrugated packaging 14.3% respectively 2005: 9.3% and 7.6%.
The and that typically accounts for around 50% of the continuing trend in certain markets towards the greater cost of a box.
use of lighter-weight packaging, for cost and environmental reasons, meant that demand by area Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM is grew in the UK by 0.6% 2005: a fall of 1.5% although sold on a pan-European basis and pricing is therefore for Europe as a whole demand growth by area and affected by pan-European supply and demand factors.
The stronger demand in the total The total demand for CCM in western Europe is circa European market in 2006 was signicantly inuenced 22 million tonnes, with an additional approximately by Germany, the largest national market, where demand three million tonnes of demand in eastern Europe grew by 4.8% 2005: 3.1% by weight.
Indicators of not including Russia.
The market for CCM in Europe demand in the early months of 2007 suggest that is dependent upon European demand for corrugated growth is at similar levels to those of 2006. packaging, as the imports and exports of unlled boxes are negligible.
Approximately 75% of the Within the total European market, the growth rates market is waste-based or recycled CCM, with the of different segments vary considerably.
Corrugated balance principally comprising kraftliner, made packaging usage in some industrial manufacturing from virgin wood pulp.
sectors of western Europe has tended to decline as a result of the transfer of manufacturing to lower cost During the first half of 2005, low growth in corrugated countries.
Usage for fast-moving consumer goods, which packaging demand and the commissioning of four new account for approximately two thirds of the corrugated continental European CCM machines, with an aggregate market, has been relatively strong due to the growth capacity of approximately 1.3 million tonnes, in a market of this economic sector.
Demand for the packaging of in which there was already excess capacity, resulted in products for home delivery is increasing as purchases severe downward pressure on selling prices throughout through the internet continue to grow.
A major feature the European market.
This downward pressure on CCM of the market during the last two years has been the selling prices and, consequently, on box prices was increasing demand for retail-ready packaging RRP compounded by the cost-down requirements of our which can be readily converted from its initial role as customers.
From autumn 2005, the pace of machine Boxes are generally supplied to a protective transit pack into its second role as a box closures increased and over 1.5 million tonnes of older customers within a radius of or tray that can be placed on display in the retail store.
CCM capacity was removed from the market during approximately 150 miles.
RRP benets retailers by reducing the manual work 2005 and 2006.
No significant CCM capacity additions 1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith estimates 2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers 18 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 101.9 98.5 103.3 97.6 105.6 97.5 106.5 95.6 109.8 95.6 DS Smith waste paper collection to corrugated boxes Severnside Recycling supplies 100% St Regis Paper Company produces The Groups UK and continental The board is cut, folded and glued of our UK paper mills requirements recycled CCM for the Groups box European box operations convert to form boxes ready for despatch for waste paper.
plants and for external sale.
After use the boxes are fully recyclable.
are expected in western Europe during 2007 or 2008 where there has recently been substantial investment but new capacity is expected to come on stream from in recycled paper manufacturing, is contributing to 2009.
If the CCM market continues to grow at over 2% European prices remaining rm and being subject per annum, demand for CCM will have increased by to short-term, demand-driven, spikes.
Waste paper at least 1.5 million tonnes between 2006 and 2009. prices were relatively stable during 2006 but rose by approximately 20% in March 2007.
In the UK, the net The squeeze on European CCM producers margins cost of our raw material is also affected by the price of from depressed selling prices was exacerbated during Packaging Recovery Notes PRNs, which are issued 2005 by the sharp increases in energy costs.
Against as evidence that packaging has been reprocessed, in a background of slightly stronger growth in demand for compliance with the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
CCM across Europe and the removal of some capacity, As a reprocessor of waste paper, we receive revenue CCM producers began to increase prices from November from the sale of PRNs to packaging waste compliance 2005 to recover some of this severe margin erosion.
schemes and companies in the packaging supply chain Since that time, CCM prices throughout Europe have that have an obligation under the regulations to ensure increased on several occasions and in June 2007 are on that sufficient quantities of packaging are being recycled.
3 average circa 45% higher than in the autumn of 2005.
We set PRN revenue against the cost of purchasing waste In response to this, box producers have increased prices paper and put it towards investment in our waste collection several times to recover the higher CCM costs.
Box price and recycling operations.
Since early 2006, there has increases were slower to take effect in continental Europe been a sharp increase in the quantity of waste packaging as the impact of energy cost increases on the supply chain being exported for recycling in Asia.
As Packaging Export occurred later and with less severity than in the UK.
Recovery Notes PERNs, which are equivalent to PRNs, However, the upward pressure on CCM and box prices are issued when paper is exported for recycling, PRNs from energy cost increases has continued through into Waste paper is a globally traded and PERNs have been in increasingly plentiful supply.
the spring of 2007 in many continental countries.
To commodity: strong demand for it Consequently, the price of paper PRNs and PERNs fell from Asia is contributing to its price date, anecdotal evidence suggests that the rises in box steadily through 2006 to a current very low level, in Europe remaining rm.
prices achieved across the European industry have not raising the net cost of our waste paper.
yet been sufficient to recover all of the paper and energy cost increases.
The pressure on CCM producers to increase selling prices has been intensied by the relatively high cost of waste paper, the principal raw material for recycled CCM.
Waste paper is a globally traded commodity: the continuing high level of demand for it from Asia, 3 Source: RISI industry price data for the UK and France DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 19 Business Review Operating Review continued UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Adjusted operating profit advanced strongly despite a further increase in input costs.
2006 07 2005 06 Revenue m 687.1 649.6 Adjusted operating profit m 36.5 20.5 Adjusted EBITDA m 68.0 55.1 Key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 5.8% 2.9% Adjusted return on sales % 5.3% 3.2% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 9.9% 8.5% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 7.6% 4.0% before an exceptional profit of 6.7 million 2005 06: exceptional charge 28.9 million 2006 07 Performance ready packaging.
Throughout the financial year, margins Results in UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging benefited were under pressure from the rises in CCM costs.
Our from a combination of the improved pricing environment network of conventional plants benefited from better in the European paper and corrugated packaging market productivity while the speciality sector, which concentrates and the actions we have taken over the last three years on higher added-value products, performed well despite to strengthen our businesses in this segment.
The strong its higher input costs.
Sales of heavy-duty packaging, which advance in adjusted operating profit was achieved is predominantly used by the industrial manufacturing despite a circa 19 million increase in the segments sector, held up well given the continued pressure on input costs for energy and net waste paper.
Our sheet feeding operations, which supply corrugated sheet, performed well, particularly Revenue advanced by 5.8% to 687.1 million as a as a result of strong sales of lighter-weight and speciality result of higher sales in Corrugated Packaging, raised board.
Our sheet plant business, which converts corrugated Our network of conventional box selling prices for both Paper and Corrugated Packaging board into boxes, was affected by us having to close plants benefited from and increased external sales of waste paper and services a plant after a major customer transferred its production higher productivity.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding to eastern Europe.
the two paper mills that were closed during calendar At our UK Paper business, St Regis, revenue was at as year 2006, revenue increased by 13%.
Adjusted operating the benets of the higher selling prices for paper and the profit was markedly higher at 36.5 million 2005 06: increased revenue at Severnside Recycling were offset by 20.5 million.
lower paper sales volume as a result of the closures of Against a background of stronger European demand Sudbrook Mill in March 2006 and Taplow Mill in October for CCM and corrugated boxes, and tighter European 2006.
Margins improved signicantly as a result of the supply of CCM, we signicantly raised our prices of plant closures and the actions taken to increase selling prices and enrich the business mix.
CCM and boxes over the course of the financial year in order to recover the higher input costs.
These increases, The capital expenditure programme to upgrade existing in conjunction with those achieved in the second half of machines at the Kemsley and Wansbrough Mills, in the prior year, are enabling us to recover a substantial order to enhance the quality of plasterboard liner and proportion of the margin erosion experienced as a result other products produced at these mills, is well-advanced of the higher input costs and the fall in prices that took and is expected to be completed by the end of 2007. place over the previous two years.
The box price increase Kemsley Mill, which now accounts for approximately programme is being maintained so as to recover more 65% of St Regis ongoing paper production, made good fully the most recent increases in CCM costs.
progress despite some planned loss of production during DS Smith Packaging, our UK Corrugated Packaging the upgrading of one of its three machines.
The mill business, achieved strong sales volume, partly as a result continues to benefit from the previous investment in its of its focus on meeting the increased demand for retailcombined heat and power plant and waste-to-energy 20 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 plant but its energy costs rose as a result of the lagged be an economic proposition over the longer-term, even pricing arrangements in the energy supply contracts under a more benign market and energy environment.
Hollins Mill benefited from healthy The Taplow site was sold to a commercial property demand for its principal product, white top testliner, and developer for a net cash consideration of 29.6 million, the action taken to raise its product quality.
Increased resulting in a net gain, after the costs of closure of the mills operations and related restructuring, of 6.7 million.
output, as a result of our recent investment, contributed to an improved result at Wansbrough Mill.
The previously Our UK waste collection business, Severnside Recycling, announced closure of PM1, the smaller of the two paper which we enlarged through acquisition in 2004, sourced machines, at Wansbrough Mill, which was planned to a greater volume of material and made good progress.
take place at the end of June 2006, was re-considered In addition to meeting the requirements of St Regis mills following the closure in mid-June 2006 of another UK for waste paper, Severnside exported an increased paper producer.
In view of the consequent improvement quantity of waste paper for recycling in continental Severnside Recycling increased in the market environment for envelope and imitation Europe and Asia.
It also grew its added-value services, the quantity of waste paper it kraft paper grades, products PM1 is well suited to collected and grew its facilities including its facilities management business which management business.
producing, it was decided to continue operating PM1 manages customers entire waste recycling and to satisfy the increased demand for these speciality disposal needs.
Higher Kings Mill, which focuses on higher In 2007 08, we will look to build on the progress made margin, speciality, non-packaging papers, grew its sales in 2006 07.
This will be through continuing our efforts volume, raised its prices and improved its profitability.
to recover the higher input costs through price increases, Taplow Mill, which made losses in 2005 06, was closed growing sales in the higher value-added sectors and at the end of October 2006 because it was not likely to raising the efficiency of our operations.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging Higher costs of CCM and energy were not fully recovered through increased box prices.
2006 07 2005 06 Revenue m 308.0 276.6 Operating profit m 18.2 20.1 EBITDA m 31.5 33.6 Key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 11.4% 4.1% Return on sales % 5.9% 7.3% EBITDA margin % 10.2% 12.1% Return on average capital employed % 11.1% 12.4% Continental European Corrugated Packaging Locations 2006 07 Performance of recovering the higher input costs.
The considerable DS Smith Kaysersberg grew its revenue by 11.4% to increase in prices we have achieved has recovered Ukraine 308.0 million through strong advances in sales volume part of the additional costs of energy and CCM which Poland and higher selling prices.
This segment, which is a we have incurred and the price increase programme Czech Republic substantial net buyer of paper, was affected by higher is continuing.
Slovakia France input costs of CCM and energy which it was not able Our French paper business, which focuses on providing Italy fully to recover through increased box prices during the a high level of customer service in speciality markets, financial year.
Operating profit was lower at 18.2 Turkey had another good year despite increases in its energy million 2005 06: 20.1 million.
We increased production NB Indicative relative sizes of operations not We implemented a box price increase programme and sales, assisted by the previous investment which drawn to scale across our continental European markets with the aim enlarged the capacity at the main Kaysersberg Mill.
Associate business DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 21 Business Review Operating Review continued Strong sales volumes and higher selling prices enabled Our business in Turkey continues to develop its sales, our corrugated packaging businesses partially to offset principally in speciality products and industrial market the effects of higher bought-in paper and energy costs.
sectors although profits are being affected by the slow The French business increased its market share and progress in passing on the higher CCM costs.
We raised productivity, while in Italy we also gained share are investing in this business to enable it to meet the in this highly competitive market.
Our Polish business, considerable potential demand in Turkey.
We increased which we are developing through substantial investment, our stake in our Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, maintained its high growth-rate despite some slow-down which is reported under associates, taking our holding in the market as a whole.
It is benefiting from its highlyto 49.6%.
This business continued to perform well and competitive Kutno factory, opened in autumn 2005, is investing further to broaden its product range and which supplies the rapidly expanding FMCG sector in meet the burgeoning demand in its region.
Our small converting business in the Czech The recently opened Kutno factory Our priorities in this sector in 2007 08 are to continue Republic, which principally supplies heavy-duty in Poland is performing well and contributed to our further strong packaging to the automotive industry, performed our price increase programme to recover the higher growth in that market.
We have recently created a similar operation in input costs and to grow further our market share in Slovakia and have opened a marketing unit in Lithuania.
Plastic Packaging Adjusted operating profit advanced strongly in both RTP and liquid packaging and dispensing.
2006 07 2005 06 Revenue m 201.8 202.4 Adjusted operating profit m 10.2 7.2 Adjusted EBITDA m 21.9 19.3 Key performance indicators: Revenue decline growth % 0.3 % 3.3% Adjusted return on sales % 5.1% 3.6% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 10.9% 9.5% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 8.3% 5.6% before exceptional charge of 1.9 million 2005 06: 2.6 million Market Overview the use of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost and Returnable transit packaging RTP products are mostly environmental grounds has been slower over the last used within the retail, automotive, electronics and two years than was previously the case.
Demand is heavily inuenced by in demand has been partly as a result of the higher industry sector activity levels.
As RTP is often a capital polymer costs and partly due to the relocation of some purchase for our customers, being driven by particular major customer sectors, such as the automotive and projects, and raw materials represent a high proportion electronics industries, to eastern Europe, where RTP of the cost, annual demand can be of an uneven nature.
market growth is estimated to be approximately 15% The European market for RTP, which is estimated to be per annum.
approximately 1.5 billion, is fragmented into many The global market for liquid packaging and dispensing product sub-sectors and has a large number of suppliers.
products is estimated to be approximately 400 million.
In western Europe, market growth is estimated to be approximately 2-3% per annum: the trend towards The principal uses of bag-in-box packaging are for wine, 22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 agricultural produce such as fruit juice and dairy products and product development functions on a pan-European and food service applications such as carbonated softbasis.
We are expanding our capability to supply RTP drink concentrate for the hotel and restaurant industries.
in eastern Europe from an existing plant in the Czech Volume growth in the North American and European Republic and a new one in Slovakia, in response to markets is estimated to be approximately 5% per annum increased sourcing of RTP products in that region by while the market in Asia-Pacic is at an early stage some customers, particularly in the automotive sector.
of development and growing rapidly.
The market for In liquid packaging and dispensing, which accounted for dispensing products principally taps, other than for 45% of the segment revenue, we increased revenue by bag-in-box systems, is fragmented across a wide range 2.7%.
Our US operations grew sales in new market of applications.
DS Smith is a major supplier to the wine sectors through innovative product development.
In and liquid detergent sector: the latter has grown strongly Europe, we benefited from a higher margin sales mix, in recent years in the USA and is now starting to develop sales growth as a result of a strengthened product range, in Europe.
and improved operating performance following the restructuring undertaken in 2005 06.
In April 2007 we 2006 07 Performance Our liquid packaging and established a small joint venture in Bulgaria to increase dispensing business benefited from Revenue at DS Smith Plastics was broadly at but on an our sales of wine bags into the rapidly growing eastern a strengthened product range and underlying basis, excluding the BSK plastic coating and European market.
We are consulting with our employees better operating performance.
laminating business which was sold in December 2005, about the proposed restructuring of our European liquid it increased by 4.9% to 201.8 million as a result of our packaging and dispensing operations.
actions to strengthen our sales and product development capability and to raise prices.
Adjusted operating profit Our small packaging management business was adversely advanced by 41.7% to 10.2 million with good progress affected during much of 2006 07 by competitive pressure in both RTP and liquid packaging and dispensing.
This and the contraction of a major customers operations: result was achieved despite energy, polymer and lm nevertheless, the business remained in profit and is now costs being approximately 5 million higher than in the benefiting from restructuring action taken in the UK and previous year: almost all of this was recovered during some new business which has been subsequently won.
the year through higher prices and a better sales mix.
Our Israel-based development business, StePac, which specialises in modied atmosphere packaging, achieved Revenue in RTP, which accounted for 46% of the segment record sales and moved into profit for the first time.
Beverage crate sales were particularly strong in the first half of the financial year Although present indications are that in 2007 08 due to the fullment of a number of large contracts in that this segment is likely to face higher energy costs in its period.
The extruded product businesses grew their sales continental operations and further increases in polymer well and achieved a richer sales mix, benefiting from our costs, our objective is to achieve steady progress in actions to strengthen and to co-ordinate better the sales the year ahead.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 23 Business Review Operating Review continued Ofce Products Wholesaling The continental European businesses progressed well and we are taking action to rebuild UK profits.
2006 07 2005 06 Revenue m 569.2 518.7 Adjusted operating profit m 12.8 12.6 Adjusted EBITDA m 19.2 19.2 Key performance indicators: Spicers focuses exclusively on Revenue growth % 9.7% 3.8% supplying dealers and resellers Adjusted return on sales % 2.2% 2.4% and derives significant benets from its international scale.
Adjusted EBITDA margin % 3.4% 3.7% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 9.8% 9.9% before exceptional charge of 2.9 million 2005 06: nil Market Overview Wholesalers, on average, account for approximately The ofce products markets of the UK, France and Germany, 10% of the total market.
The direct wholesaling in which Spicers currently has approximately 85% of its competition that Spicers faces varies by country.
In the sales, are estimated to be worth approximately 7 billion, UK there is one other significant national wholesaler 6 billion and 8 billion, respectively, at manufacturers of ofce products.
In most continental European markets competition from other national wholesalers is limited, selling prices.
Recent annual growth in these markets is but there are significant numbers of regional and local estimated to have been low or at overall, with the wholesalers.
The European scale of Spicers business traditional stationery sector being at or in decline assists it in offering a broad range of products at and the electronic ofce supplies EOS sector showing 4 competitive prices relative to those of many of its strong growth.
The volume of products bought by ofces smaller wholesaling competitors.
Spicers commitment continues to increase, but the value of the market is being to supplying only the trade, and not, as some of held back by price deation caused by intense competition its competitors do, supplying end-users, gives it a between suppliers and the trend for consumers to buy competitive advantage.
Spicers competes indirectly lower-specication or own-branded products.
EOS, with a number of other distribution channels.
The most which is a growing sector of the market, accounts for significant of these, contract stationers, accounts for approximately 50% of the total ofce products market: 10-15% of the total market: they generally sell to larger it is especially price-competitive on the high-volume ofces and offer a smaller range of products than is EOS products.
The other principal competitor The relative shares of the various supply channels to channels to market are: mail order, ofce superstores, Spicers European Coverage the end-user market differ by country.
However, in the other retailers and manufacturers selling direct to ofces.
countries in which Spicers operates, the channel that Spicers principally supplies that of ofce products 2006 07 Performance dealers or resellers accounts, on average, for Spicers revenue advanced by 9.7% to 569.2 million, approximately 35% of the total ofce products market.
both as a result of a full years contribution from The share of the market held by dealers has been Timmermans, the Benelux business acquired in October relatively stable in recent years.
Ofce products dealers 2005, and strong growth in Spain and Italy.
Signicantly primarily sell to smaller and medium-sized ofces, higher profit from the continental European businesses was generally offer a high standard of service to their largely offset by a substantial decline in profit in the UK but customers, and source most of their products either overall there was a slight increase in adjusted operating Countries covered by Spicers distribution centres from wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data 24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Although Spicers UK continued to be signicantly affected distribution centre was commissioned at Chteauroux, throughout the year by competitive pressure, its performance in central France, to support sales growth and to towards the end of the second half reected some initial improve further customer service.
The Benelux business, benets from the steps we have taken to date, as part Timmermans, continued to perform well: its increased of our three-year plan to restore UK profits.
The business focus on developing its business in The Netherlands ended the year with an encouraging sales trend while contributed to good sales growth.
Spicers Germany service levels at the important dealer distribution centre advanced, partly as a result of new marketing initiatives improved signicantly.
The substantially strengthened UK which enabled it to grow sales with its target dealer management team is vigorously implementing a customer base.
The Spanish business saw excellent programme of actions aimed at improving the sales sales growth: it consolidated its profitable position mix, raising service levels and lowering costs.
The and, in October 2006, opened its new distribution regional distribution centre RDC network has been centre near Madrid: this has extended our distribution further consolidated with the closure in early June In France, Spicers own branded coverage across central and southern Spain.
Spicers 2007 of the Park Royal RDC in London.
We expect dealer groups, Plein Ciel and Italy, which has been in operation for two and a half the benets of these actions to be increasingly evident Calipage, are growing well.
years, continued to broaden its customer base and through the 2007 08 financial year.
It recently concluded an important In 2006 07, Spicers made further advances in supply agreement with Italys leading franchised developing its business and profitability in continental stationery store operator.
Spicers France continued to gain market share In 2007 08, we will focus on rebuilding Spicers profit and grew its profit, particularly as a result of the further performance in the UK and further developing our expansion of its own branded dealer groups, Plein Ciel and Calipage.
In January 2007, a new central continental businesses.
Ofce Products Market Distribution channels Manufacturers Wholesalers Contract Superstores Dealers and Mail Order Stationers Major Retailers Resellers End-user Ofces There are a number of channels through which ofce products are distributed from manufacturers to the end-users in ofces.
Spicers operates in the wholesaler dealer channel.
The specialisation and buying power of the wholesaler and the low overhead cost structure of the dealer enable this channel to compete effectively and profitably.
Wholesalers also supply product to the other three main channels because they are well equipped to hold stock of a larger range of items.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 25
