70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 10 10 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operations Review EXPROS BUSINESS HAS GROWN SUBSTANTIALLY THROUGHOUT THE CURRENT YEAR, BOTH ORGANICALLY AND THROUGH THE ACQUISITION OF PWS.
Organisational Development Regional Businesses Expros businesses have grown substantially throughout the Europe FSU current year, both organically and through the acquisition of Europe FSU remained our largest Region with the three main PWS.
In order to deliver our ongoing business and also to markets being the UK, Norway and the Former Soviet Union support further sustained growth we have successfully FSU.
Activity through the year has been at a sustained high level re-shaped the Regional organisation.
The new structure has been with strong margins.
implemented without disruption to ongoing business and was In the UK we continued to have strong market share in our core designed to effectively harness the talents of legacy Expro and services.
We supported our clients to complete an increased legacy PWS management and operational personnel.
offshore development programme whilst also meeting an increase in operator spending on production enhancement.
Key projects Expros regional operations are now delivered across the included Shell Corrib, Talisman Tweedsmuir, Maersk Dumbarton, two Hemispheres East and West.
Venture Ensign and Nexen Buzzard.
The Eastern Hemisphere comprises the Regional businesses of: In Norway we provided subsea safety tools on numerous subsea field developments and we have also taken the leading market Europe FSU position on welltest activities through the PWS acquisition.
We West Africa now have direct welltest contracts with Statoil, Hydro and most of North Africa Middle East the international oil companies.
In the FSU we further developed critical mass in both Kazakhstan Asia and Russia.
We provided services on the Karachaganak and Kashagan developments in Kazakhstan both of which have The Western Hemisphere comprises the Regional businesses of: demanding technical and operational requirements.
We have North America Land also provided welltesting services to Gazprom on the giant Schtokman field in the Barents Sea and mobilised for Wintershall North America GOM in Siberia.
These major projects were complemented by a Latin America growing number of smaller operations which we are now able to support on a call-off basis.
In addition to the Regional businesses, Expro has continued to West Africa deliver a number of Global businesses that rely on the Regional The newly formed West Africa region has comprehensively infrastructure for operations support.
The prospects for these established Expros position of strength in the rapidly growing Global businesses have been further enhanced by the improved West African offshore markets.
geographical coverage of the Regional infrastructure.
In Nigeria we now provide a broad range of Expro services.
From the During the last year we have also put significant effort into our Regional business perspective we have a strong, locally staffed, safety, service quality and personal development programmes.
However, the infrastructure has also been used Across our entire Expro business we are committed to effectively to deliver subsea and production projects.
Excellence in Operations and we now have over 4,000 In Angola we delivered significant growth in welltest activity for BP employees with a significant presence in all key hydrocarbon on their Block 18 and 31 activities and for Total on their broad producing regions.
Across all regions, we can effectively deliver a range of appraisal and development activity.
At the same time we wide range of services to the major international oil companies, supported Chevron on their Cabinda operations.
the independents and to the increasingly important national oil companies.
70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 11 Annual report and accounts 200711 We also provided project specific services across a number of Throughout the year we have also provided welltest and subsea other West African countries including various services for Petro services in India to Cairn Rava and ONGC but we have yet to SA in South Africa, ExxonMobil in Equatorial Guinea and CNR establish a strong long-term position in this developing market.
North America The West African business, with its large deepwater, subsea We continued to provide a range of well perforating, wireline developments, has tremendous growth characteristics for intervention and subsea services to the Gulf of Mexico shelf Expro and we have firm plans for further facilities and and deepwater markets.
Meanwhile we have provided a range of organisational growth in line with our clients long-term committed premium well perforating and clean-up services to the North development plans.
The offshore market has been sustained but is still down on rig activity compared to pre-Hurricane Katrina.
North Africa Middle East The onshore perforating and clean-up business has been very Our business in North Africa Middle East is now material and strong due to the production decline-curve characteristics of the we have critical mass in Algeria, Libya, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
In Algeria we have continued to support the development Our service portfolio of premium well perforating, clean-up and programmes of First Calgary Petroleum, BP and Repsol.
In cased hole evaluation downhole video is well suited to Libya we now have a developed client base and this market.
deliver welltest and cased hole support to Waha, Woodside and Repsol.
Latin America We now have a strong welltest business across the breadth of In Egypt the business progressed dramatically.
We have delivered welltest services in Argentina, of call-off, welltesting services were delivered with notable Bolivia, Venezuela and Mexico, however, the majority of the successes with Bapetco, five-gas, Shell and Rashpetco.
activity has been in Brazil.
We provide a significant part of In Saudi Arabia there has been an exceptional demand for Petrobras welltest and clean-up services and during the last welltesting services.
We extended our contract commitment with quarter we have agreed a new contract to extend the supply of Aramco and we added additional equipment and personnel to these services for a four-year period.
On the back of this contract meet the growing demand.
Plans are now being progressed to we are reviewing options to increase our scope of supply and develop a substantial, complementary cased hole business.
Asia Global Businesses During the year our regional business in Asia reached a defining Subsea safety tools moment.
We now have a critical mass of business across the Our subsea business had an outstanding year.
"We delivered high breadth of Asia which is delivering a material margin contribution levels of activity with our hydraulically actuated 7"" subsea landing independent of the Global businesses."
strings in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
This was Australasia has performed very well with improved profitability complemented by a number of high-revenue subsea exploration across existing business and we delivered new activity in New welltest activities.
We also completed the build of our next Zealand with Shell Todd and Origin Energy.
"generation electro-hydraulic EH 7"" subsea landing strings for Chevrons Tahiti deepwater Gulf of Mexico project and Chevrons In both Indonesia and Malaysia we have critical mass welltest Agbami deepwater West Africa project."
These EH operated businesses and we provided services to a wide range of clients systems, required for safe deepwater applications, have including Shell, Petronas Carigali, Carigali Hess in Malaysia and to a much greater degree of technical sophistication than the direct BP on their high profile Tangu project.
Meanwhile in Thailand we hydraulic controlled systems and will generate substantially continued to provide volume wireline services to Chevron.
70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 12 12 Annual report and accounts 2007 Operations Review continued Production Solutions Our Production Solutions business delivered record revenues across the year.
We had nine months of production on the ExxonMobil Chayvo project in Sakahlin Island and completed an extended welltest for Shell on the BS-4 project in Brazil.
In addition to which we completed a number of successful equipment sales and the construction of the barge-mounted production facility for Chevrons Dibi project in Nigeria.
Because of its discrete project nature, revenues from our Production Solutions business can vary considerably from year to year.
Contract commitment for next year is less than the record levels achieved during this year and hence we have re-shaped the Production Solutions team to further enhance sales effectiveness.
TronicMatre Our connectors and instrumentation business delivered further significant growth.
The connectors business progressed in-line with the growth in subsea wells, delivering a number of major subsea power connector systems.
The power projects included systems for BP King, Kvaerner Oilfield Products on Statoils Tyrihans project and Framo on Oilexcos Brenda project.
We also began to see an increase in package sales across our full range of connectors and instrumentation products such as to Vetco on the Ettrick project.
Assembly and delivery output has been increased during the year.
Recognising the rapid growth in subsea well installations projected for the next few years we have now developed plans for new assembly facilities to support continued growth over the next five-year period.
Acknowledgement The directors would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the commitment, professionalism and enthusiasm of the Expro teams across all parts of the business.
The integration of PWS as well as ongoing operational and business success is a credit to a great team effort.
Gavin Prise Chief Operating Officer 70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 13 Annual report and accounts 200713 Dibi Production Barge The period also saw the build, delivery and commissioning of Chevrons Dibi production barge in Nigeria.
This barge was custom built in-country to produce up to 50,000 bbl of liquid for the Dibi field.
