GROUP OPERATING REVIEW well placed to continue progress growth 2007 WAS ANOTHER ENCOURAGING YEAR FOR THE BUSINESS, WITH ORGANIC SALES GROWTH OF NEARLY 7% AND FURTHER GOOD PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR LONG TERM OPERATING MARGIN TARGET OF 15%.
The contribution to both sales and the Czech Republic are now also inevitable disruption associated with margin improvement from our central to our manufacturing factory restructuring.
Our balance cumulative investments in new capability, accounting for over 30% sheet remains in good shape, with net products was particularly pleasing.
of Group wide manufacturing debt at around 1 x EBITDA.
We are Amongst the many new product capacity, growing to an estimated well positioned to fund further highlights for the year were advanced 40% by the end of next year once our acquisitions and a continuation new actuator and valve controls in 3 year programme of factory of our share buyback programme support of a new generation of restructuring, which began in 2006, which started in 2005.
Kloehn and nuclear power plants: new door has been completed.
Operating Pneumatex, acquired in 2007, operating systems for Siemens margins are expected to have performed well and, given their for use on their high speed trains: improved by around 150 basis points exposure to favourable end markets, balanced heating and cooling systems as a result of this programme.
we expect an accelerating in high profile buildings such as the Fluid Controls delivered another contribution in the years ahead.
Burj Tower and Heathrow Terminal 5: strong set of results, with organic With its leading market positions in new refrigeration technology which sales growth of 7% and operating clearly defined global niches, strong reduces the energy consumption of margins improving to 14.5%.
End customer relationships, a vibrant new traditional drinks dispense equipment markets in the energy sector in products programme, reliable and by up to 40%: a new cold beer station particular remained bouyant, and recurring revenues from the for a UK nationwide roll out of a new products contributed aftermarket, an increasing exposure super chilled beer for Coors: and significantly to year on year growth.
to fast growing emerging markets, breakthrough advances in the use Within Retail Dispense, both the and accelerating cost benefits from of LED lighting for substantially Beverage and Merchandising a largely implemented factory improving the impact of business exhibited signs of restructuring programme, the Group merchandising displays used in improvement, collectively delivering is well placed to continue its the cosmetics industry.
organic sales growth of 5% over progress of recent years.
Equally pleasing was the contribution last year, and improving operating from our activities in the emerging margins by around 25 basis points, markets of Asia, East Europe and helped by higher margin new Latin America, where sales products and a growing contribution collectively grew by over 20% in the from our low cost manufacturing Martin J Lamb Chief Executive year and now account for 17% of initiatives.
Operating cash conversion Group revenues.
China, Mexico, and at 87% was encouraging given the 5 March 2008 10 Group operating review STRONG REGIONAL MARKETS POSITIVE END MARKETS Truck Emerging Markets Auto Oil and gas 5% 17% Retail N. America 5% 9% ROW Power 9% 30% 5% 14% Growth key Growth key organic y. o. y% organic y. o. y% 15% 20% Construction 5-10% 10-15% 13% UK Draught dispense 0-5% 5-10% Western Europe 12% 18% Capital equipment 0% 0-5% 36% 27% IMI plc Annual Report 2007 11
