Directors report - Business review - Operational review the initiatives we had previously announced for incorporating those operations into the new Interserve structure.
Key performance indicators 2007 2006 Change Revenue 1,738.0m 1,408.5m 23.4% Headline earnings per share 39.9p 31.7p 25.9% 4 Cash conversion 118.6% 153.1% 34.5 % pts 5 Future workload 5.7bn 5.6bn 1.8% 6 Staff turnover 9.9% 7.9% 25.3% UK all-employee accident incidence 444 556 20.1 % rate per 100,000 workforce 2007 was an excellent year for Interserve, with headline earnings per share rising 25.9 per cent.
Profit increased in each of our five divisions and growth was particularly strong in Facilities Management and Project Services.
Organic revenue grew by 13.7 per cent.
We made strategic progress on a number of fronts during the year: We successfully turned around our industrial business, which is now trading profitably.
The MacLellan businesses have enhanced our market position, adding some 260 million of revenue including many encouraging examples of clients won as a result of the combined skill base.
In addition we are realising cost synergies of some 3 million a year.
We achieved significant growth in our construction operations, both in the UK and the Middle East.
We expanded the operations of our Equipment Services division, entering the South African market by establishing a new business with two branches, investing in a new depot in Abu Dhabi and extending our export footprint in north Africa.
At 31 December 2007 future workload excluding our Middle East associates stood at 5.7 billion 2006: 5.6 billion, with Supporting the Metropolitan 1.3 billion of 2008 revenue secure.
In addition our share of the future workload for our Middle East associates grew by 20 Police in all they do per cent and now stands at 240 million.
Interserve provides a wide range of FM services to the Metropolitan Police Service MPS in an area covering everything to the south of the The slight rise in staff turnover was due to the inclusion, in Thames plus the boroughs of Westminster, Kensington and Chelsea, and 2007, of figures from some parts of the business, principally in including New Scotland Yard.
The buildings in this region have a floor 2 area of 340,000 m - equivalent to more than 40 football pitches - and the security market, which had not previously recorded them, range from police stations, offices and call centres to flats, garages, and to continued buoyant market conditions and associated stables and workshops.
There are also training and sports facilities, demand for people.
warehouses, motorway posts and police boxes.
4 Cash conversion is calculated as the percentage of cash generated from operations of Interserves current seven-year contract with the MPS began in 2007 and 65.0m 2006: 49.3m divided by the sum of: operating profit of 51.0m 2006: follows a previous one which ran initially for five years and was 1.4m : plus amortisation of intangible assets of 4.8m 2006: 2.1m : plus extended for three more.
During the year we won additional contracts to impairment of goodwill of nil 2006: 30m : less profit on disposal of property and supply two further services: Boarding Up - a 24x7 reactive service to investments of 1.0m 2006: 1.3m.
make premises secure following police break-ins - and Special Operations, 5 Future workload comprises contracted work plus work that has been settled and on where we provide a multitude of planned and reactive services at crime which final terms are being agreed principally PFI projects at preferred bidder stage.
scenes and events such as Wimbledon and the London Marathon.
6 Staff turnover measures the proportion of managerial, technical and office-based staff leaving the Company and its subsidiaries voluntarily over the course of the year.
12 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Department of Health: total facilities management at six Facilities Management locations in London for a three-year period.
Facilities Management provides a broad range of integrated, or bundled, services to the public and private sectors.
We BAA: 24x7 maintenance in Heathrows Terminal 2. deliver the vast majority of these ourselves.
British Energy: replacing pipework providing cooling to the nuclear reactor at Hartlepool Power Station.
The contract Results summary: was won in conjunction with Project Services, whose role is 2007 2006 to construct concrete ducts under the roads and foundations Contribution to Total Operating Profit 27.9m 13.9m for the pipe supports.
Revenue 733.1m 649.5m Margin 3.8% 2.1% UK-based airport operator TBI: cleaning contracts covering airports at Belfast, Cardiff and Luton for five years.
This excellent progress resulted from a combination of growth Abbey: cleaning at over 350 branches in the banks North and from both new and existing clients, turnaround in our industrial Central regions for two years.
operations and the full-year impact of the trading results and integration benefits arising from the 2006 MacLellan We have also recently been named preferred bidder for a 100 acquisition.
million, five-year property services contract with the Home Office.
The contract, which has the option of a two-year One of our key tasks for the year was to complete the extension, will operate across Wales, Scotland and south-west, initiatives we had announced for integrating MacLellan.
Each of north-east and north-west England.
It includes maintenance, the two new divisions formed at the time, Facilities security, cleaning, portering, reception, catering, hospitality Management and Specialist Services, has undergone and energy management.
considerable internal reorganisation as we have enhanced performance in the support functions and have identified A key aspect of our development strategy is to grow our opportunities in the market on which we can capitalise by existing relationships through extending the extent and breadth refocusing our front-end operations.
The Facilities Management of our services over time.
We grew a number of our existing division now addresses the market through six client-facing contracts in this way in 2007, notably: units, reflecting the growth opportunities we see in the UK outsourcing market.
Metropolitan Police, where we have a seven-year contract covering a wide range of services in the southern half of This structure allows us to tailor our delivery to the particular the forces area and New Scotland Yard.
We added two needs of our target sectors while maximising efficiency and new services: a four-year contract for Special Operations, promoting best operational practice across the division.
The providing support to police incidents and special occasions integration is such that almost every new bid we undertake such as Notting Hill Carnival, Wimbledon and Remembrance involves people or services from both of the former Day: and Boarding-Up Services as an addition to the main organisations.
Establishing this structure has also enabled us to contract, in which we provide a 24x7 reactive service generate annualised savings of approximately 3 million covering calls to domestic and commercial premises through cost rationalisation.
following police raids and break-ins.
Croydon Council, where we maintain over 600 properties We have made very significant progress with our industrial ranging from the Town Hall to libraries, youth clubs and business, now one of the six business units in the FM division.
sports grounds and provide services such as security, cleaning The new management, enhanced commercial controls, costand catering.
Following a series of presentations and open reduction measures and focus on customer service have turned forums with local head teachers we negotiated a planned the operation around and it is now trading profitably.
Our and reactive maintenance service with, initially, 12 schools medium-term expectation is that margins should grow to match in the borough.
those in the rest of the division.
Our three operational PFI hospital contacts, where we Our new clients and contracts won during the period included: provide a broad range of non-clinical services both for the staff, patients and visitors and also for the maintenance CB Richard Ellis: integrated retail facilities management over of the facilities.
We undertook additional work in service three years at two more of its shopping centres: the new variations and projects, adding just under 10 per cent to Silverburn centre in Glasgow, the largest in Scotland, and our revenue.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 13 Directors report - Business review - Operational review continued Homebase, where we are responsible for cleaning throughout the stores.
We extended our contract for a further two years and increased its scope, with the addition of 56 more stores, to cover the entire estate of 178 in the UK and Ireland.
Our focus on client service was recognised in several industry awards during the year.
At the Premises and Facilities Management PFM awards we won the Partners in Public Service category for our work with Croydon Council, and our subsidiary Landmarc, which was created to run the nationwide Defence Training Estate DTE contract with the MoD, not only won the Partners in Multi-service category but was also declared Overall Winner.
Landmarcs services are wide ranging and include property and infrastructure maintenance, catering, environmental and conservation support and accommodation services such as waste management and cleaning.
The judges noted that the partnership with the MoD was amongst the most varied in terms of the services provided and was the most geographically spread of any that has been judged in the awards.
They commented, Landmarc and DTE have addressed these challenges with a positive attitude and real expertise.
Landmarc also won the Best Practice in a Fit-out award at the British Institute of Facilities Management awards earlier in the year.
Overall Winner, Premises and Facilities Management Awards Overall Winner, Professional Golden Service Awards We received accolades in the cleaning industrys Professional Golden Service awards for our work on two specialised contracts: our work with the Atomic Weapons Establishment won us the Public Sector award: and we secured the Overall Maintaining maintenance Winner title for our performance at the McLaren Technology for British Airways Centre in Woking.
This is the iconic head office of the McLaren Group, together with a manufacturing plant and research and Interserve has been working at British Airways Maintenance Cardiff development centre and, as would be expected in an BAMC in South Wales since the facility opened in 1992.
All British environment where Formula 1 cars are created and assembled, Airways wide-bodied fleet visit it for their regular maintenance checks.
The work is time-critical as it is expensive not to have an aircraft in standards of cleanliness are scrupulously high.
the air, so all the support functions must run like clockwork.
The Interserve team is responsible for virtually every facet of the building, its plant and equipment, from cutting the grass to changing the gearboxes in the undercarriage platform to managing the conversion of an aircraft docking bay to receive a new aircraft type.
Alan Parsons, BAMC Facilities Manager, explains: Interserve ensures that we have the electrics, hydraulics and air when we need it.
They service a very specialised fleet of ground equipment, the cranes and the gantries.
They look after the firefighting technology, the water and the pumps.
We focus on fixing the aircraft because thats our core competence: they do everything else.
14 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 We also continued to win work with in-house customers.
The Specialist Services most significant to be won through Project Services was the The division provides a variety of outsourced services which are design and installation of building engineering services usually delivered discretely but can form part of a bundled associated with the Leeds City Council Building Schools for the package through Facilities Management.
Initially we shall deliver services with a value of approximately 20 million in five mainly new-build Results summary: secondary schools scheduled for completion in 2008 2009: the 2007 2006 programme extends over a 10-year period and will provide Contribution to Total Operating Profit 6.7m 6.6m significant further opportunities as the Leeds estate is Revenue 190.2m 137.4m progressively modernised.
Meanwhile contracts in which we are Margin 3.5% 4.8% involved through Facilities Management include: South East Regional Prime for Defence Estates managing heating systems : Our security and mechanical & electrical installation and University College London Hospital delivering security maintenance operations traded well.
We have addressed the services : Metropolitan Police providing security, lift issues in the underperforming heating, ventilation and air maintenance, air conditioning and asbestos management : and conditioning HVAC and working-at-heights operations by Slough Borough Council lift maintenance.
repositioning them and making changes to the management team, and expect the benefits to flow through during 2008.
The security operation comprises two businesses we acquired as part of MacLellan MacLellan Attlaw and First Security.
We were successful in securing a number of important clients Prospects in the security market are attractive, offering such as: opportunities for significant growth.
In order to enhance this Kleinwort Benson: security-based services in two buildings, development potential we have instituted several changes with 30 officers whose duties range from front-of-house including: security and reception to control room operation, patrolling, The renaming of MacLellan Attlaw to Interserve Security, CCTV and car parking management.
allowing us to capitalise on the strength of the Interserve Barclays Capital: the addition of Barclays Wealth on the brand.
renewal of the contract, which now covers five buildings and The integration of the business development and management involves 27 officers carrying out front-of-house, control functions of the two businesses while retaining the First room, patrol and CCTV duties.
Security brand within its London market.
This not only Wembley Stadium: successful renewal of stewarding and increases efficiency but also enhances the opportunities for associated services covering both sporting and non-sporting extending our relationships with some of First Securitys events.
Standard Life: a three-year contract for a full range of The acquisition, in January 2008, of specialist security planned and reactive maintenance services to 15 UK regional business R & D Security.
The company supplies, installs offices.
and maintains CCTV, intruder alarms, technical surveillance and access control and has a client list which includes Frimley Park Hospital NHS Foundation Trust: a five-year the Ritz Hotel Group, the Metropolitan Police and the contract for planned and reactive maintenance to all air American Embassy.
conditioning and refrigeration assets across the Trust estate.
It covers a diverse range of equipment including the refrigeration equipment for the mortuary and other specialist facilities.
Homes for Islington: a 10-year partnering agreement to provide statutory, planned and reactive maintenance for nearly 300 lifts.
Homes for Islington is the Arms Length Management Organisation ALMO that manages Islington Councils rented and leasehold homes.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 15 Directors report - Business review - Operational review continued A substantial proportion of our growth came from national Project Services building framework agreements.
These included: Project Services works in close collaboration with clients in the UK and the Middle East, providing professional services to lead BT, where 2007 turnover was more than 70 million.
the design and construction process in the creation of a broad Our highest annual turnover for Barclays to date.
range of buildings and infrastructure.
The first full year of the four-year BBC framework, covering Results summary: a UK property portfolio of some 230 premises.
Work 2007 2006 undertaken has included a studio for the new topical Contribution to Total Operating Profit 29.4m 23.4m magazine programme The One Show and offices for - UK 13.5m 12.7m Top Gear.
- International associates 15.9m 10.7m NHS ProCure21, where we are one of the most successful Revenue 759.5m 570.8m partners, winning work during the year valued at over Margin UK only 1.8% 2.2% 70 million.
Continued strong demand in our UK and particularly our Middle Ongoing delivery of prison houseblocks at various locations Eastern markets underpinned a significant increase in activity around the UK under the new-build and refurbishment levels, resulting in a contribution to total operating profit up framework agreements with the Home Office.
We have so 26 per cent on 2006. far won projects worth more than 170 million through these two programmes.
Fundamental to our success in both regions has been our ability to manage resources to meet demand while maintaining our Among contracts secured during the year were: reputation for timely and cost-effective delivery.
We have a Plymouth Schools PFI: design and construction of two new very clear view of the kind of work which is right for us.
schools a primary for 450 pupils and an all-through school Factors we consider include the clients partnership style, the for 1,480 which brings together an early-years, primary, size of the contract, the level of risk and the extent to which secondary and specialist school on a single campus.
our supply-chain relationships and ability to manage logistical complexity can be brought into play.
Leeds Building Schools for the Future BSF : the first phase comprises four new schools and two refurbishments, The majority of Project Services UK work comes from a large providing places for some 6,000 pupils.
number of , low-risk projects with longDesigned for Life: Building for Wales: to date we have been standing clients who value our understanding of their business selected to undertake a range of schemes with an estimated and our input to their planning process.
In the Middle East, combined construction value in excess of 250 million in this where we have been active for more than 25 years, our framework agreement with Welsh Health Estates.
associate partners play a key role in knowing the local business environment and advising which are the right potential clients RAF Brize Norton, Oxfordshire: design and build of aircraft with whom we can build mutually beneficial working parking stands to accommodate 18 refuelling and heavy relationships.
The contract was won through our Facilities Management divisions involvement in the United Kingdom South East Regional Prime Contract.
In the UK the Scottish market is particularly active at the Environment Agency: we secured a place on the Second moment.
Projects initiated during 2007 include the first phase Generation National Contractors Framework to deliver the of the refurbishment of Edinburgh Universitys main library, agencys 500 million programme covering flood defence, a postgraduate centre for Heriot-Watt University, fit-out waterways and water resource capital works.
The works at BBC Scotlands new headquarters in Glasgow and programme will run for four years and has an option to the enablement works for the Victoria Hospital, Kirkcaldy, extend for a further four.
and Queen Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline.
We have also been continuing the building of Addiewell Prison in West St Helens College, Merseyside: we were named Preferred Lothian, a PFI project which will see 700 new prison places Bidder on the 45 million project which covers the made available when it opens at the end of the year.
construction of a new college and the demolition of existing facilities.
16 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Several regional framework agreements including: Nottinghamshire County Council, where we shall be delivering schools, libraries and offices across the county under a programme stretching to 2010: Manchester University, where we have been appointed to a construction framework: and Nottingham Trent University, where the agreement covers new build, refurbishment and small works.
Since the year end we have won a place on the Home Offices Fit-out and Refurbishment framework agreement.
The fouryear arrangement covers businesses across the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice estates throughout the UK including the Border and Immigration Agency, the National Police Improvement Agency and the National Probation Service.
The agreement is estimated to be worth around 50 million to Interserve and includes interior fit-out, refurbishment, general construction, mechanical and electrical works and new-build projects on a design and build basis.
It complements the fiveyear, 100 million Home Office contract for property services for which the Facilities Management division has recently been named preferred bidder.
We are proud of our achievements and it is particularly welcome when they are recognised independently.
Among the awards we received in 2007 were: Recognition from Severn Trent Water for the efforts of an Interserve-led team which battled successfully to save the Mythe Water Treatment Works, Tewkesbury, from a second round of flooding during the July floods that devastated parts of Gloucestershire.
Resources from across the Interserve Group were utilised at very short notice and we directed over 200 people including other contractors and 70 Armed Forces personnel, who all worked around the clock over a weekend to build a temporary barrier which prevented further flooding.
Our Victoria Footbridge project, the restoration of a historic bridge over the River Wye, was a multiple award winner during 2007.
Accolades included a Green Apple Environmental The militarys Prime support Award, several awards from the Institution of Civil Engineers ICE and from New Civil Engineer magazine.
throughout the south-east RAF High Wycombe is the home of the RAFs Air Command and forms part The fascia replacement of Westminster Bridge, which of the estate covered by Interserves South East Regional Prime FM continued throughout 2007 to capture attention at the contract with the Ministry of Defence.
24x7 critical maintenance support, heart of the capital, also received recognition by the ICE as shown here in the bunker, is just one of the services we provide to as an outstanding civil engineering project.
support the functioning of the estate.
Others include land and property management, lifecycle maintenance, help desk, environmental We were awarded the prestigious Investors in Excellence management, condition improvement of buildings and facilities, and accreditation, demonstrating our performance against the provision of management information systems.
European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM Excellence Model.
Project Services was the first construction Following the successful delivery of runway resurfacing and taxi-way works, in 2007 we won a 40 million construction project to design and company to achieve this through the British Quality build aircraft parking stands at RAF Brize Norton, the Military Airport for Foundation.
Defence, where the RAFs air-to-air refuelling and passenger and freight transport fleet will be based.
The works will accommodate 18 refuelling and heavy transport aircraft and will incorporate aircraft hydrant refueling defueling facilities, lighting, electrical ground power, communications links and security cameras.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 17 Directors report - Business review - Operational review continued We also won a number of environmental awards and were active participants in many community projects see pages 32 and 34 in the Corporate responsibility section for details.
Middle East Demand continues to rise in the Middle East for the high quality construction services provided by our associate companies.
In Dubai the leisure and tourism sector remains very buoyant.
We completed the 255-room Raffles Hotel, and three hotels in a roll-out programme for Majid Al Futtaim Group are in progress.
Other notable projects completed included an earthworks and road construction project, involving the 3 movement of 4.4 million m of material and the creation of 24km of graded road in the relocation of Camel City, and the construction of offices, workshops and training facilities for Baker Hughes.
Recent wins include a programme of eight Easy Hotels for Istithmar.
In Qatar we continue working with long-standing clients at Doha International Airport and with Siemens, Areva and ABB on the construction of further substations.
New contract awards included a substantial office fit-out for Exxon Mobil.
Our Spacemaker business had a particularly successful year providing accommodation units for the regions major petrochemical works including the Shell Pearl Gas-to-Liquids GTL project.
The Qatar-based Madina group, in which we acquired a 49 per cent beneficial interest in June 2007, has more than met our expectations in its first six months of trading.
We won a two-year extension to an offshore services and onshore fabrication contract for Maersk, which will now last until March 2012, and we have continued to broaden the client base in what is a very buoyant and exciting market, as exemplified by a contract from Qatar Vinyl Company for fabrication and erection services in the construction of a new demineralised water plant.
Building the best for Raffles The magnificent new Raffles hotel at Wafi City, Dubai, opened in In Oman, work continues on the Sohar Industrial Port complex November 2007 and features a dramatic 101-metre-tall pyramidal where we remain the contractor of choice.
We completed a structure with a central core and three wings.
Interserves UAE associate container terminal for Hutchinson and construction works for company, Khansaheb Civil Engineering, was the main contractor.
an aluminium smelter power plant for Alstom, and have won The 19-storey construction of the hotel, our sixth major development new awards for construction at Sohar including an aromatic in Wafi City, provided a challenging engineering project.
At the peak plant for GS Engineering and a materials-handling system for of activity there were 2,500 employees involved on the site.
It also Shadeed Iron & Steel Co. demanded extremely high levels of attention to detail, with the interior design drawing elements from both the Middle East and Asia and Elsewhere in Oman, our market position in industrial work including a striking series of columns in the lobby intricately carved strengthened with award of the Barka Independent Water with Egyptian hieroglyphs.
and Power Project IWPP Phase 2 for Doosan, a previous Each of the 248 rooms covers at least 70 square metres and has a client, and a Methanol Plant in Salalah, another project for private balcony with panoramic views of the city.
The hotel includes GS Engineering.
We have also increased our workload in the a spa, nine restaurants and bars, seven large meeting rooms, a oilfields in the interior for Occidental, another long-standing ballroom for 600 guests and a business centre.
There is car parking client.
18 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 As the regions markets develop, the opportunity for crossselling our services among Middle-East-based and international clients increases.
We are negotiating a contract with Baker Hughes in Qatar following the completion of the project in Dubai, and other opportunities include the construction of hotels in Oman for the Majid Al Futtaim Group and the roll-out of bank refurbishment rebranding for Commercial Bank Qatar in its newly-acquired businesses in the UAE and Oman.
Equipment Services Equipment Services provides temporary structural equipment and the engineering designs for its use in complex infrastructure and building projects.
Results summary: 2007 2006 Contribution to Total Operating Profit 23.9m 22.6m Revenue 132.0m 108.5m Margin 18.1% 20.8% Our progress was based on continued buoyancy in the Middle East, together with strong growth in Europe and some encouraging signs of recovery in Australia.
We entered the South African market in 2007 with the opening of a business with two branches, in Durban and Pretoria.
This is generating revenue and building a client base in Gauteng and Kwa Zulu Natal provinces and we are planning the next stage of branch development.
Among the many projects for which we designed engineering solutions and provided equipment were: East London Line Phase 1 a sequence of ongoing projects in connection with the extension of the line northwards and southwards.
Works include viaducts and new stations.
Wimbledon Centre Court support for the main court structure while the court is covered with a new retractable roof.
Staying at the cutting edge A74 Cumberland Gap bridges the road is being upgraded from a four-lane dual carriageway to a six-lane motorway of design and we have provided equipment for the work on the two We have developed a customised 3D AutoCAD system in our Equipment main structures concerned: Moss Band bridge, over the Services division which allows us to provide an enhanced and faster West Coast railway line, and the River Esk bridge.
design service to our clients.
Based on software which is used in Arabian Ranches road interchange, Dubai, UAE - we supplied professional film, video and games production, the system enables us to create extremely lifelike three-dimensional images of our products a broad range of equipment to create 10 box-cell bridges, and to place them in specific situations modelled on the circumstances each between 150 and 240 metres long, and a cut-and-cover of the clients project.
tunnel in the countrys largest such project to date.
This is a high-growth sector and we have won several further The software also gives us the ability to generate three-dimensional infrastructure projects as a result of our work on the animation.
This is of benefit not only in our design work, when we are building an engineering solution to the clients problem, but also to our interchange.
clients themselves, who can see how our products work together to Liquefied natural gas tanks, Abu Dhabi, UAE equipment for provide the answer they need.
In addition, the power of the software the construction of four tanks 62 metres in diameter and 34 means that we can understand how proposed new products will work metres high.
The tanks consisted of a steel liner with an inwithout producing full-scale mock-ups, reducing the cost and time of situ reinforced concrete facing on the outside, built using a product development.
variety of products including climbing formwork.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 19 Directors report - Business review - Operational review continued Europe PFI Investments Our UK operation did well, benefiting particularly from exports The PFI Investments division leads all the Groups PFI activities.
to the US and the Netherlands.
We anticipate that work It manages our investment portfolio and, in many cases, associated with the Olympics will begin to flow through delivers management services to the Special Purpose towards the end of the year.
Ireland performed solidly, Companies established to run the contracts.
improving on the previous years results.
Spains performance was excellent, with a substantial improvement on an already 2007 2006 good 2006 result as we capitalised on the investments we made Contribution to Total Operating Profit 2.1m 1.1m to the operating infrastructure in 2005 2006.
Interest received on subordinated debt investments 4.5m 3.8m 6.6m 4.9m Middle East & Africa Our Middle East operation made the largest contribution to During the year we reached financial close on two contracts divisional profit and grew strongly in a buoyant market.
All Leeds Building Schools for the Future and Plymouth schools, three of the principal countries where we have offices UAE, where in both cases Interserve will undertake construction and Qatar and Bahrain - did well and the region is looking promising provide the FM services and were named preferred bidder on for 2008.
We have invested in a new depot in Abu Dhabi to fuel three more: Down & Connor and fide La Salle schools, Pembury expected growth over the next few years and are also Hospital, Tunbridge Wells and a second PFI contract within the extending our footprint in the region through increased exports Leeds Building Schools for the Future programme.
We shall be to north Africa, in projects such as the Great Man-made River providing FM services in the first two of these and both FM and pipeline project in Libya, where our equipment is being used in construction in the third.
We now have a total of 26 PFI the construction of massive water storage tanks along the projects with five more at preferred bidder.
Our investment commitment in the signed projects is 58.4 million, of which 39.1 million had been paid at 31 December.
All three of the principal The preferred bidder projects will involve investment of a further 15.5 million.
countries where we have offices did well and the region is looking We completed the construction of Devoran Primary School over the summer and it opened as planned for the autumn term.
promising for 2008 This was the second of two new schools in our Cornwall schools contract: the first, Richard Lander School, opened in 2006.
As noted above, we invested in a start-up operation in South The project had also involved extensions, remodelling and Africa at the beginning of 2007.
The operation is performing refurbishment for 15 others in the county and we are now in line with our plan, which anticipates break-even by the end providing FM services across the entire estate.
With the of 2008. contract fully operational, we have a total of 20 operational PFI projects.
Four more are under construction and there Australasia and Far East are two in which we are providing interim services while The performance in the Far East was poor, affected particularly construction is under way.
by adverse conditions in Korea.
Project delays also held Hong Kong and Macao back, but the Philippines very nearly matched Beyond our five preferred bidder projects we have a strong its record year of 2006.
There are, however, signs that Macao pipeline of bids and are seeing a continued flow of may improve in 2008.
Although the market in Australia was opportunities coming to market.
subdued during the first half of the year, a good recovery in the second half, led by the mineral-rich mining states of Our PFI portfolio represents a significant source of value.
Western Australia, Southern Australia and Queensland, We give a detailed analysis of its contribution to the Group resulted in an increased contribution overall.
and of its past and expected future cash flows of the current portfolio excluding those at preferred bidder and in the bid pipeline in the Financial review on page 23.
20 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Group Services Costs accounted for within Group Services of 16.7 million 2006: 11.4 million relate to our PFI bidding activity, a range of centrally-provided services and the Group Board.
The increase in the year was due principally to a higher level of accruals for incentive payments and share awards and to investments in Group-wide control and communication systems, the majority of which are non-recurring.
Outlook Our markets remain healthy with opportunities for further growth.
We deliver critical services to social infrastructure and commercial and industrial assets at each stage in their life cycle.
These are areas which are resilient when the economy comes under pressure.
Indeed, at such times there is often a tendency for organisations to outsource more of their activities as they seek to increase efficiency, and our Facilities Management and Specialist Services divisions are well placed to take advantage of such a trend.
With such a solid UK position, continued buoyancy in the Middle East and a good pipeline of opportunities for each of our businesses, we remain confident that the Group should continue to demonstrate good progress in 2008 and beyond Our UK public sector business is centred on areas such as health, education, defence and justice, in which the government has a continued commitment to investment.
In the private sector our acquisition of MacLellan in 2006 enables us to offer a broader range of facilities management skills to a Keeping order for Chelsea FC wider group of clients, while the strategic nature of the construction work we undertake for our framework partners is Interserve plays a key role at Chelsea FCs Stamford Bridge ground in usually core to their future development programmes.
maintaining the safety of the crowd at all home fixtures.
We also assist with security oversight at away games.
Internationally, conditions in the Middle East remain buoyant, driven especially by tourism and infrastructure in Dubai and the Our licensed stewards provide a variety of services to ensure good order.
petrochemical and industrial sectors in Qatar and Oman We search all supporters before they enter the ground and carry out respectively.
We check for any people who are banned, watch for ticketing offences and identify ticket touts.
In these and other areas we work closely with the police, whose authority is limited within With such a solid UK position, continued buoyancy in the the ground.
Middle East and a good pipeline of opportunities for each of our businesses, we remain confident that the Group should Our stewards also provide important customer services to supporters, continue to demonstrate good progress in 2008 and beyond.
acting as information points and assisting with orderly evacuation either routinely at the end of a game or in case of emergency.
Wembley is one of a number of other stadiums where we deliver similar services.
We recently renewed our contract there covering both sporting and non-sporting events typically concerts such as the one in celebration of the life of Diana, Princess of Wales.
