24 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Operating review The Company made significant progress over the course of 2007, with a new structure, strategy and senior management team all put in place by the end of the year.
It was a tough year for ITV and all UK broadcasters, with the issues Over the course of 2007, we have also significantly strengthened of trust coming to the fore, in particular in the context of core central functions.
Carolyn Fairbairn joined the Company premium rate services.
Those issues and the steps that we took to from McKinsey as Director of Strategy and Development and address them are detailed in a separate section on Trust and PRS.
is responsible for strategy, development and regulation across the Company.
Mark Gallagher joined the Company from ITVs strategy, summarised on pages 22 and 23, was set out Camelot as Director of Group Corporate Affairs and has publicly in September 2007, following an in-depth analysis of the established an integrated communications and public affairs market, competitive trends and the opportunities and challenges function.
Andrew Garard also joined as Group Legal Director.
The strategy is reflected in a new segmental structure for the Company, incorporating Broadcasting, Global Content and Outside the core divisions, ITV retains a number of businesses Online.
identified as non-core and candidates for sale or exit.
These include Carlton Screen Advertising, Screenvision Broadcasting remains the primary revenue driver of the Company and broadband ventures related to football clubs in which ITV with ITV1 in particular still delivering over 50% of the Companys no longer retains a stake.
Broadcast incorporates all our advertising funded television channels.
Simon Shaps is Director of Television, Key operational developments in the major business areas and responsible for commissioning and scheduling across all ITV with respect to these non-core activities in 2007 are described in channels.
In February 2008 we announced that Peter Fincham, the following sections.
former controller of BBC1, would be taking over from Simon later Broadcasting this year.
In November, Rupert Howell took up a new position as Managing Director of Brand and Commercial, responsible for 2007 saw improvement in ITV1s schedule and performance, sales and marketing across all our channels.
Together with our with ITVs digital family of channels continuing to grow.
advertising-funded channels, for reporting purposes, Broadcasting Following steep declines in 2006, the performance of the ITV1 incorporates the wholly owned SDN which is a platform business schedule was more stable in 2007.
In absolute terms, ITV1 actually operating a digital terrestrial multiplex.
delivered a higher level of commercial impacts individual Our strategy is driven by our content.
Global Content was created viewings of 30 second commercials in 2007 compared to 2006. during 2007 to pull together all production for ITV and other Key long-running programmes in particular Coronation Street UK broadcasters: international production and distribution: and Emmerdale in peak and This Morning and The Jeremy Kyle merchandising and other commercial ventures.
Dawn Airey took Show in daytime continued to perform well, underpinning the up a new position as Managing Director of Global Content in schedule as a whole.
Performance in the afternoons improved October 2007, working closely with John Whiston as Director of with the introduction of a new schedule architecture which saw ITV Productions.
ITVs childrens programming focused on the Citv channel and on weekends on ITV1.
The channels sporting output was boosted by Finally Online incorporates our consumer-facing online activities, the explosive debut season of Lewis Hamilton in Formula 1, notably itv.
com, Friends Reunited and the new England defying the odds in the Rugby World Cup, and the broadband joint venture with BBC Worldwide and Channel 4. enduring excitement of Champions League football.
Our Online division is headed by Jeff Henry as Managing Director, of ITV Consumer.
The ITV1 schedule was refreshed with a number of successful new shows, including Britains Got Talent, Primeval and Kingdom, all of which return in 2008.
In total ITV1 launched 23 new shows in 2007 which secured audiences in excess of 5 million viewers.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 25 k Change in share of viewing in 2007 % change vs 2006 0 BBC1 BBC2 ITV1 C4 Total five 2 -2.1 -2.9 -3.2 4 6 8 10 -10.1 -10.3 12 Source: BARB Infosys C4 Total includes Channel 4 and C4 1 ITV News continued to set the agenda with award winning ITV awards programmes, reporting and special broadcasts.
The year began ITVs creativity has again been rewarded with its programmes successfully with ITV News picking up four prestigious Royal winning major awards both in the UK and internationally.
Television Society Journalism awards, including the Programme of the Year award for the ITV Evening News.
Following Januarys ITV programmes as diverse as See No Evil, Housewife 49, Big Melt climate change report from Antarctica, ITV News Coronation Street and Dancing On Ice secured a record number continued its on location reports with a week long Iraq Week of major UK awards, including television and craft BAFTAs, Royal special in March and Zimbabwe Week in September the latter Television Society, National Television and British Soap Awards.
including interviews with Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Internationally ITV Productions secured a number of major Archbishop Desmond Tutu.
honours, including International and Primetime Emmy Awards, ITV1 remained the leading free-to-air commercial channel in the the Prix Europa and a Banff World Television Award, with the ITV UK, with a lead over all channels including BBC1 in peak time produced film The Queen winning two Golden Globes and a 2007 between 7.00 pm and 10.30 pm in the evening.
Across all time, Academy Award.
ITV1 recorded its best year-on-year performance in share of The quality of ITV productions for other UK broadcasters viewing terms since 2001, with a fall of just 2.1% year-on-year.
was demonstrated by several major awards for Longford for This compared to losses of 3.2% at BBC1, 2.9% at BBC2, 10.3% Channel 4 and The Street and The Royle Family for the BBC.
ITV News won a host of awards including RTS Journalism Awards ITV1s volume of commercial impacts was up 1.1% year-on-year programme of the year for the Early Evening News.
across all adults and was up 1.3% in terms of the ABC1 adults prized by advertisers.
However ITV1s share of commercial ITVs regional programme teams secured a number of regional impacts SOCI the core currency for advertisers under the awards and an unprecedented national BAFTA for Granada CRR mechanism fell to 32.0% compared to 33.1%in 2006.
Reports coverage of the Morecambe Bay cockle-picking tragedy.
This is because the total universe of commercial impacts ITV Sport won seven RTS Sports awards, including for coverage continues to grow rapidly as the UK transitions to digital and of boxing and the Boat Race, and a BAFTA for ITVs Formula 1 the BBC loses viewing in the process.
However this SOCI loss of coverage produced by North One Television.
3.3% represents a significant improvement over 2006, when ITV1 registered a decline of 10.5%.
ITV also won a number of awards for programmes commissioned or acquired from external producers, including BAFTAs for As important as on-screen progress during the year, ITV1 also laid The X Factor and Entourage.
the foundation in 2007 for the new schedule launch in January 2008.
In March 2007 ITV secured the terrestrial rights to FA Cup football and England home internationals from the 2008 09 season.
In Autumn 2007, ITV confirmed that News at Ten would return in 2008 with Trevor McDonald joined by Julie Etchingham and Mark Austin.
A raft of new programmes and returning favourites were commissioned during the year to hit ITV1 screens in early 2008.
These included exciting new dramas Honest, The Fixer and Rock Rivals, returning hits including Kingdom, Harry Hills TV Burp, Primeval and Dancing On Ice.
26 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Operating review ITV2 vs five ITV2 moved into the next Viewing share for 1634 year olds in multichannel homes 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 phase of its development 7 with increased commissioning 6 5 of exclusive content.
4 3 2 1 0 ITV2 total five Source: BARB Infosys, All time, Multichannel Homes, Jan 2001 Dec 2007, ITV2 Total ITV2 ITV2 1 Beyond ITV1, ITVs digital channels also had a successful year in ITVs performance on-screen also allowed the Company to 2007.
ITV2 moved into the next phase of its development with optimise its advertising revenues across the year.
ITV1 advertisers increased commissioning of exclusive content.
Secret Diary of a could reduce their share commitment to ITV1 in 2007 by over Call Girl starring Billie Piper peaked with an audience of 2.2 million 10% on average under the CRR ratchet because of ITV1 in September, an exceptional audience for a digital-only channel.
However the channel was well-placed to Investment in such channel-defining, original content has further attract short-term advertising revenues as ITV1 fared better than cemented ITV2s proposition as a bespoke channel for younger its core competitors Channel 4 and five across the year.
In 2007 audiences, distinct from and complementary to ITV1.
ITV2s share ITV1 accounted for 498 out of the top 500 shows on UK of viewing across 2007 in multichannel homes was 2.2%, up commercial television 2006: 499 out of 500, making it the UKs 11.9% on 2006.
ITV2 was named non-terrestrial channel of the most effective brand-building channel for advertisers by some year at Broadcast magazines awards and at the 2007 Edinburgh margin.
ITV television advertising revenues fell by 0.3% in 2007 International Television Festival.
compared to an 8.4% drop in 2006 and against total growth in the market in 2007 of 3.1%.
ITV3 was the UKs ninth most popular channel for 2007 with a share of viewing of 1.4% in multichannel homes.
ITV4 grew its A strong on-screen performance in 2007 means that ITV1 enters audience share in multichannel homes by almost 25% over the 2008 with the lowest CRR ratchet since merger.
Rather than year as high quality sporting events in particular attracted large reducing their share commitment to ITV1 by over 10% as applied audiences to the channel.
In its first full year of broadcasting the going into 2007, advertisers and agencies are entitled only to Citv channel played an important role in reaching children in reduce their commitment by around 4% in 2008.
With ITV1 digital homes and in particular on the DTT platform, where it is schedule changes seeking to maximise audience levels in crucial the only free-to-air commercial childrens channel.
Citv represents peak viewing hours and ITVs commercial competitors continuing a far more effective means of reaching children than childrens to lose audience share, ITV will compete fiercely for revenues programming on ITV1, which reduced in volume in 2007.
However from advertisers and agencies over and above their contractual the Citv channel was impacted by regulatory restrictions on food minimum.
The continuing growth, in audience share and SOCI advertising to children, which came into force in 2007 and apply in terms, of ITVs digital channels also positions them well to full to childrens channels from 2008.
The ITV Play digital channel continue strong growth in revenue terms over the course of was closed in March 2007.
Revenues had been impacted by the 2008, depending on conditions in the wider market.
PRS issues described elsewhere in this report.
Closure of the The wholly-owned DTT multiplex operator, SDN, enjoyed a channel freed up DTT spectrum which ITV has redeployed to successful year in 2007.
Early renewal of a significant contract launch the time-shifted ITV2 1 service on the platform.
with QVC underlined the ongoing strength of the Freeview Between them, ITVs digital channels were responsible for 37.5% capacity market, and provided for improved terms for SDN.
of the growth in multichannel viewing in the UK during the year During the course of 2007, ITV also confirmed that it had and overall advertising revenue from our digital channels grew by contracted with the transmission operator Arqiva to deliver the 33% to 209 million.
The contribution from ITVs digital channels DTT transmission infrastructure that will take the channels meant that ITV overall increased its volume of commercial occupying the capacity licensed to ITV and to SDN through the impacts year-on-year by 3.2%.
In SOCI terms, ITV plc channels switchover process.
Post-switchover ITVs core capacity will reach accounted for 41.7% of all UK commercial impacts 2006: 42.2%, around 98.5% of the UK with SDN channels available to over 90% a 1.2% decline 2006: 5%.
The switchover process begins in earnest in 2008 and confirmation of the post-switchover multiplex configuration ITVs strong on-screen performance in 2007 was all the more in particular for HD and PSB channels is also expected in 2008, impressive as it was delivered on approximately the same level of which should be a further positive for the platform and for SDN.
ITV has sought to improve In 2007 ITV also confirmed a joint venture with the BBC to launch schedule efficiency further by developing more long-running, a Freesat subscription-free digital satellite service in 2008. returnable series, rather than one-offs or short-run series.
The new service will include free-to-air HD services from ITV ITV maintains tight control on costs and is one of the most and the BBC.
efficient broadcasters in the UK as measured by the relationship between programme spend and audience share.
Share of viewing % Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 27 k 96% of ITV1 programmes delivering audiences above 10 million were made by ITV Productions.
The Turnaround strategy also requires significant growth in Global Content commissions for UK broadcasters other than ITV.
2007 again saw Global Content registered a number of significant achievements a significant volume of ITV production for other UK broadcasters, in 2007 and profits increased 2% to 90 million.
But while profits including The Street, University Challenge, Come Dine With Me were maintained, revenues were down in particular because and Countdown.
However UK production beyond ITV was down sufficient and consistent commissions were not secured from 34% year-on-year, with external drama falling short of target.
ITV and other UK channels.
However ITV can face the challenges of delivering growth in The second series of Dancing on Ice proved a huge success for Global Content with some confidence, as 2007 once again ITV1, attracting consistently high audiences across its nine week provided ample evidence of the quality of the Companys run.
Overall, Dancing on Ice secured an average audience of output and the creativity of its staff see ITV awards.
8.5 million with a 37.4% share in its Saturday night slot 2006: ITVs Turnaround strategy targets a rate of expansion in Global 9.5 million, 41% share.
Other entertainment successes included Content that will not be delivered solely by organic growth.
the 7th series of Im A CelebrityGet Me Out of Here and the 7th ITV has earmarked up to 200 million of proceeds from disposals series of Ant and Decs Saturday Night Takeaway.
for content-related acquisitions and has also committed to Lewis returned to ITV1 on Sunday nights as a series.
With an supplementing existing in-house operations with a variety of average audience of 8.3 million and a 34% share, the series was innovative partnerships and flexible structures to ensure that ITV one of ITV1s top performing dramas across the year.
The ITV continues to tap the widest range of UK production talent.
In July premiere of the Oscar-winning movie The Queen delivered an 2007, ITV announced that it would be taking a 25% stake in average audience of 8.7 million and a 38% share.
However drama Mammoth, a new drama producer set up by a team with an production for ITV overall fell short of target.
Personnel changes established track record in the genre.
and a restructuring during the course of 2007 aim to return the In December 2007 ITV confirmed the acquisition of 12 Yard, an business to growth going forward.
independent producer specialising in gameshow and quiz show ITV-produced soaps continued to draw impressive audiences in formats and production.
Gameshows and quiz shows represent 2007: Coronation Street was the top-performing show in the UK in perhaps the most internationally saleable genre of programming, 2007, excluding sport, with the highest rating episode attracting but have not been an area of strength for ITV historically.
an audience of 13.1 million, and a 49.5% share 2006: 12.6 million The majority of ITV1 gameshows and quiz shows, from Who viewers, 52.6% share.
Throughout the year it was the UKs top Wants to Be a Millionaire to Goldenballs, are not in-house performing soap, averaging an audience of 10.1 million and a productions.
Even where ITV has produced or co-produced such 44.6% share 2006: 10.1 million viewers, 46% share.
shows itself for example, with Countdown and Gameshow Marathon it has tended to rely on formats from third party Emmerdale attracted an average audience of 7.5 million and producers.
It is hoped that the acquisition of 12 Yard will help a 37.2% share 2006: 7.6 million, 38.4% share, and was scheduled reverse this trend, with a number of possible new commissions against the BBCs biggest show, Eastenders, on 15 occasions in for ITV1 under discussion.
In 2008, that head-to-head battle becomes a fixture, with the new ITV1 schedule pitting Emmerdale against Eastenders every Tuesday evening.
Across the year, ITV Productions secured around 50% of ITV1 commissions, but was slightly down on the previous year, as the network decided not to recommission a number of established programmes in particular dramas as part of its schedule changes.
The success of ITVs content-led strategy relies in part on ITV Productions growing its share of ITV1 commissions, with a target for the Global Content division of 75%.
28 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Operating review itvlocal.
com unique users per month, 2007 Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Source: comScore International Online 2007 was a strong year for returning formats such as First 48, 2007 was a crucial year for Online with the relaunch of a Celebrity Fit Club and Hells Kitchen with Gordon Ramsay in the video-enabled itv.
com, full national roll out of itvlocal.
com, US, Das Perfekte Dinner Come Dine With Me in Germany, and continuing growth at Friends Reunited, and the agreement Dancing with the Stars in Australia.
Distribution revenues at ITV of joint venture terms for a broadband archive service with Worldwide were impacted by the reduction in UK commissions the BBC and Channel 4. and the exchange rate.
Nonetheless sales were registered with In 2007, itv.
com received a complete functional and visual TV broadcasters, home entertainment partners and new media overhaul, enabling it to compete with other major entertainment platforms in more than 250 countries worldwide.
Now equipped with a broadband video player and a 2007 included Hells Kitchen USA, Agatha Christies Marple and much-expanded operations and editorial team, the site offers Northanger Abbey and Mansfield Park from ITVs Jane Austen channel simulcasts for ITV1, ITV2, ITV3 and ITV4 as well as a season.
Format sales included Saturday Night Takeaway, sold to 30-day catch-up service and access to archive material.
As a Hunan TV in China pictured which debuted in early 2008 with an result of this new look and feel, the site has achieved substantial audience of 55 million viewers.
growth, with unique users per calendar month breaking through Trading for Granada Ventures was challenging with price the 6 million barrier for November.
competition in areas such as DVDs eroding margins and turnover, Moving forward, itv.
com is developing key partnerships with even where volumes were maintained.
There were strong other online players and the first exclusive made-for-broadband campaigns around classic ITV brands like Sharpe and Inspector commissions.
A partnership with MSN for the duration of Im a Morse, and strategic acquisitions in the childrens and comedy CelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!
in November saw exclusive clips market.
Mobile and online gaming products were released on the MSN portal in exchange for cross-promotion of itv.
for Catchphrase, Bullseye and Countdown, with ITV Classic Gameshows released for Xbox, Nintendo, Sony Playstation and itv.
com launched with Web Lives, an innovative series of short, PSP.
A number of digital download to own deals were agreed documentary-style programmes made by Roger Graeff.
In 2008 in 2007 and this will be a major initiative in 2008 exploiting our there will be further commissions, including a 12-part series of available catalogue.
drama shorts linked to new ITV1 dramas Moving Wallpaper and Echo Beach, called The Mole.
2007 saw the completion of the full roll-out for our regional broadband service itvlocal.
From October, the service has been available in all ITV regions, and in December, it attracted over 750,000 unique users.
com is modernising ITVs delivery of regional news, expanding the viewing and reach of our regional programming online.
Almost 70% of visitors are coming to itvlocal.
com for local news before the main regional news programme airs on ITV1 at 6pm.
com has over 1,000 hours of news, weather, short films, documentaries, viewer videos, and other material available to be viewed on demand by broadband viewers.
Totaluniquevisitors 000s Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 29 k Efficiency savings 2007-08 Continuing efficiency gains 2007 2008F m m and disposal of non-core Back Office 11 15 businesses remain a priority Property 11 Systems and Technology 47 for the business.
Transmission 67 Staff related 46 Procurement 35 Cumulative total 29 41 Cumulative cost of change 15 26 Note: Efficiency gain run-rate to end of 2007 and company forecasts to 2008.
The Friends Reunited group of sites continued to grow during Non-core businesses and efficiency savings 2007 with revenues increasing by 36% on the previous year.
ITV continued its programme of non-core disposals in 2007, selling Worldwide, Friends Reunited currently has 19 million registered stakes in Arsenal and Liverpool football clubs, MUTV and the ITFC members 2006: 17 million, whilst Genes Reunited has sub-titling business.
ITV retains stakes in broadband services 7.9 million 2006: 5.8 million.
One new name is added to Genes associated with Arsenal and Liverpool, but is seeking to dispose Reunited every second and a new member joins the Friends of these businesses during the course of 2008.
Reunited Dating site every two minutes.
Carlton Screen Advertising had a challenging year in 2007.
Following our recent strategy review, there are plans in Notwithstanding healthy cinema attendances, CSA was adversely development for much greater integration with each Friends affected by falling revenues and onerous contractual Reunited business and itv.
com, including a reduced emphasis commitments, which led to a continuing trading loss.
ITV took on subscription fees for some parts of the sites.
an exceptional operating charge of 9 million and has entered In November 2007, ITV announced the creation of a commercial into a dialogue with cinema operators and other parties regarding three-way joint venture with BBC Worldwide and Channel 4 to the future of the business.
launch an on-demand content service in 2008.
The service will Our US screen advertising joint venture with Thomson enjoyed bring together over ten thousand hours of the UK broadcasters another year of impressive double-digit revenue and profit current and archive programming from the UKs three leading growth.
The installed installation pipeline of digital screens is broadcasters.
Content will be available to be both streamed and currently over 7,000 out of a total screen count of just under downloaded with viewers able to watch for free, rent or buy.
Our European cinema advertising business, also a 50 50 Going forward, itv.
com will provide access to catch-up joint venture with Thomson, experienced a year of consolidation.
programming and clips, and will carry exclusive simulcasts of Total revenues were constant year on year, with strong revenue ITV channels, whilst the joint venture broadband service will growth in France offset by a disappointing performance by the be the home of the ITV archive.
In 2006 we announced a programme of efficiency savings across the Company aimed at achieving a cost reduction run rate of 41 million a year by 2008.
This programme is on track with an annualised 29 million of savings delivered in 2007.
Continuing efficiency gains and disposal of non-core businesses remain a priority for the business in the context of our turnaround strategy.
Savings and disposals will fund the investment and acquisitions that are necessary to deliver sustainable growth.
