Operations review Ukraine For more information go online to: www.
co. uk Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, a Successful appraisal of the Continued reinterpretation of the wholly-owned subsidiary of JKX, holds Tournasian Carbonate in a structure 3D seismic database to generate four production licences covering to the north of the Molchanovskoye additional targets in and around the 271sq.
km in the Poltava region of field: producing areas.
Each production licence The continued development of the In pursuit of the above objectives, the contains a particular field: Ignatovskoye, Devonian Sandstone in the northern N75 and Kremco 900 rigs operated in Molchanovskoye, Rudenkovskoye and area of the Molchanovskoye field: the PPC licences throughout 2007.
The Novo-Nikolaevskoye, which together Further appraisal of the Devonian Kremco 900 was used for workovers and form the Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex.
Sandstone in the Molchanovskoye to drill vertical wells up to 2,500m and The four production licences are located field and promising results from the the N75 was used for more complex and on the southern edge of the Dnieperoverlying Visean Sandstone: deeper wells.
Both rigs were contracted Donetsk basin which is the main from Poland.
The Kremco 900 was First steps in evaluating the potential producing area in eastern Ukraine.
The demobilised in late 2007 in preparation for fracture stimulation of the tight reservoirs in the PPC fields are formed for its move to JKXs Russian operation sandstone reservoir in the by both clastic and carbonate formations in 2008.
Rudenkovskoye field: of Devonian and Carboniferous age.
First steps in appraising the Production licences In addition to its production licences, Tournasian Carbonate reservoir Ignatovskoye PPC has three exploration licences in in a structure to the west of the The Ignatovskoye licence is located in the area: Zaplavskoye part of the NovoIgnatovskoye field: the centre of the Novo-Nikolaevskoye Nikolaevskoye complex, Elizavetovskoye Further upgrading of the Central Complex.
It contains the first field to and Chervonoyarske East, representing Production Facility at Poltava to be developed by PPC and accounted for a total licensed area of 171.2sq.
handle the additional wells at the majority of the Groups production different pressures and with varying until 2005 when it was overtaken by the Ukrainian operational overview fluid content: Molchanovskoye field.
Two additional Our operations this year included: Preparation for the tie-in to the Soyuz structural trends are now being Drilling testing and or completed pipeline in order to remove the evaluated, one to the southwest, and a total of 13 appraisal and current constraint on gas production: one to the west of the main field.
development wells: and Ukraine licence areas Chervonoyarske East Elizavetovskoye Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex 0225 km 14 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The main field is an uplifted fault block and I129 also encountered depleted and contains the southernmost field containing Devonian sandstone and reservoirs in the Devonian and within the complex.
The licence contains overlying Carboniferous Tournasian Tournasian sandstones respectively, but three distinct features: the southern area sandstone and limestone.
On top of that still managed flow rates of 1,000 bopd which contains gas condensate in is a carbonate reef build up of Visean and 0.3 MMcfd gas in I128 and Devonian sandstone, the northern area age.
There is also a series of thin 4.6 MMcfd with 180 bcpd in I129.
Two which consists of a black oil reservoir sandstone channels on the flank further development wells to the north with a gas cap, again in Devonian of the structure, also of Visean age.
and south of the main Ignatovskoye sandstone with overlying Tournasian structure are planned for 2008. sandstone and, overlying that and Black oil is found in the Devonian extending to the Ignatovskoye licence, the sandstone and the lower parts of the Wells I130, I131 and I133 all targeted the newly developed Tournasian carbonate Tournasian and Visean reservoirs: these Tournasian carbonate and encountered and sandstone reservoirs which contain are overlain by a rich condensate bearing substantial gas columns, some in excess gas condensate.
The Visean channels can be oil or of 100m.
However, indications are that gas bearing.
Reservoir quality in the the reservoir here has low porosity and The main focus of activity in 2007 has Devonian sandstone and Visean reef is permeability and will need stimulation.
been on the Tournasian carbonate generally good while the Tournasian A detailed study is in process to ensure following the success of the M155 and sandstone and limestone both are the best possible procedure and work M156 wells in 2006 which were drilled in variable and often dependent on local is started in the second quarter.
In the the northern area of the field concluding depositional and tectonic influences.
meantime, well I133, the most northerly with M157 which came on stream in early Reservoir stimulation in these reservoirs stepout, was completed in the 2007 at 7.3 MMcfd with 620 bcpd.
The is often necessary and, although this can Tournasian sandstone with an initial 2007 drilling campaign began with give high initial flow rates, the rates often flow rate of 3.7 MMcfd and 560 bcpd.
success in the Tournasian carbonate decline to a more modest plateau extension to the field when well M160 production.
tested at 7.4 MMcfd and 495 bcpd: this The main focus of was followed by the north-westerly stepThe main focus of appraisal in 2007 was appraisal in 2007 was the out M161 which flowed 1.0 MMcfd with the Tournasian carbonate structure to 250 bcpd and the south-easterly step-out Tournasian carbonate the west of the Ignatovskoye field, initially well M162 which initially flowed at discovered in well M155 and further 3.9 MMcfd and 120 bcpd.
Further appraisal development drilling appraised in the Molchanovskoye is contingent on the success of the northern structures.
In addition, The final step-out on the structure, I130, stimulation programme: however, the development drilling focused on the lies to the northwest of M161 and is structure is relatively large with more Devonian and Tournasian sandstones actually in the Ignatovskoye licence.
This than 2km separating wells I131 from and the Visean carbonate of the main well failed to flow from the Tournasian I133 and the potential gas in place is Ignatovskoye field.
carbonate despite gas shows drilling and substantial.
logging pay: it is currently suspended Well I127 added another production point awaiting the design of a comprehensive Molchanovskoye to the Visean carbonate reservoir, which stimulation treatment programme for The Molchanovskoye licence is located is mostly gas bearing, with an initial flow the Tournasian carbonate reservoir in approximately 8km from Ignatovskoye rate of 3.4 MMcfd and 26 bcpd.
Group Reserves Total Ukraine Russia Oil Gas Oil Gas Gas Oil Gas Gas MMboe MMbbl MMboe MMbbl Bcf MMboe MMbbl Bcf MMboe 1 January 2007 44.3 6.1 38.2 6.1 229.4 38.2 Purchase of reserves in place 36.5 0.5 36.0 0.5 216.0 36.0 Production 4.6 2.0 2.6 2.0 15.4 2.6 31 December 2007 76.2 4.6 71.6 4.1 214.0 35.6 0.5 216.0 36.0 Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 15 Also planned for 2008 are in-fill wells in-fill drilling in the Devonian sandstone date two productive areas have been in the Tournasian carbonate structure and another horizontal well is planned identified in this licence.
in order to maximise recovery.
for 2008 together with the workover of Well R12Z, which was re-drilled by PPC the discovery well M28.
The long established southern area in 2005, is located in the more southerly remains an uncertain mix of good and Novo-Nikolaevskoye of the two productive areas and continues poor Devonian sandstone reservoir.
After The Novo-Nikolaevskoye licence lies 3km to produce from the main Devonian gasthe success of well M202 in 2002, the to the west of Ignatovskoye: previous bearing interval: two deeper gas-bearing subsequent wells M203 and M204 were exploration of this area by Ukrainian intervals remain untested.
In late 2007 well M205 was state companies targeted the Tournasian The second well in the area, R102, was targeted at the Devonian sandstone and carbonates although with little success drilled in early 2007 approximately 2.2km had an initial flow rate of 5.1 MMcfd and due to the variable nature of the reservoir.
It found two 2,700 bcpd from a 15m pay interval.
These results will be re-examined in main gas-bearing zones in the Devonian Although the low level of the Devonian 2008 following the success of the 2007 sandstone and the lower 45m interval means that the potential for extension of drilling programme in the northern part was tested at an average rate of the Devonian field to the east is limited, of the Molchanovskoye licence.
7.7 million cubic feet of gas, 90 barrels of the well also logged 105m of pay in the In addition, well N9 continues to produce condensate and 230 barrels of water per Tournasian carbonate and 22m in a oil and gas from the shallower Visean day.
A second shallower 138m interval Visean sandstone.
Potential productivity sandstone and this area has been the depth was identified as a suitable target from the Tournasian carbonate in this subject of preliminary reprocessing of for fracture stimulation.
The timing for area is uncertain but could add additional the 3D seismic to enhance the testing this interval will depend on the reserves if productivity can be identification of the channel sands in the performance of the lower interval and the established.
The other wells in the field area.
These appear at a number of levels, recommendations derived from the are being re-examined and may be mostly running in an east west direction, stimulation in well R101.
candidates for recompletion in 2008. and vary considerably in thickness and R101, drilled in 2006 and the first new The Visean sandstone could also add breadth.
well in the northern area, encountered reserves, and new seismic processing This work will be continued in 2008 with 200m net of gas-bearing Tournasian techniques are being applied to the aim of both defining reserves in the sandstone, the deeper zones at such investigate the distribution and thickness area and identifying further appraisal high pressure meant that they had to be of these channel sands.
plugged back for safety reasons.
The Finally, one well, M158, was drilled to shallower section was tested and a 110m Rudenkovskoye define the downdip southern flank of the interval put into production at an initial The Rudenkovskoye licence is the most northern sandstone structure during flow rate of 2 MMcfd.
This interval was northern of the four production licences.
2007 and achieved a flow rate of considered suitable for a massive The target reservoirs within the licence 1.3 MMcfd and 45 bcpd from the hydraulic fracture stimulation.
are the Tournasian and Devonian sands, Tournasian sandstone with the main which are found at depths between The fracture stimulation took place Devonian sandstone reservoir below the 3,000m and 5,000m.
Based on data during 2007 and the results were oil water-contact.
Reservoir modelling from old wells drilled by Ukrainian state disappointing with flow rates not has demonstrated the need for additional companies in the 1970s and 1980s, to exceeding the original unstimulated rate.
Ukraine basin areas and gas export pipelines Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex Russia Europe via Ukraine Rudenkovskoye 130 Bcm yr Ignatovskoye Novo-Nikolaevskoye Molchanovskoye Zaplavskoye Hydrocarbon basins Gas export pipelines 0 225 km 0 7.5 km 16 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Despite lengthy testing, opinions differ on evaluations of the Novo-Nikolaevskoye pressures and to further improve the the exact mechanism for this failure, but seismic and the testing of the environmental standards being a common view is that the tested interval, Ignatovskoye west structures will enable maintained by PPC.
In addition to the which was designed to maximise JKX to carry out volumetric estimates of Soyuz connection preparations, 2007 saw unstimulated production, may have been the potential in the reservoirs and the the installation of a new low-pressure too great for the stimulation and led to fracture stimulation programme in the manifold and reconfiguration of the inlet dissipation or misdirection of the frac Rudenkovskoye field may finally enable manifold system to handle the additional fluid.
us to make a better assessment of the wells and to better match wells with reserves.
in that substantial area of the different fluids and pressures.
2008 will see the commissioning of a fifth The addition of 13 new wells compressor, the implementation of a Production facilities in 2007 and the development new produced water treatment facility, In late 2006, PPC was granted improved fire protection systems and of reserves in the field has permission to access the Soyuz gas upgrading of the oil metering and pipeline which carries gas from Russia added a wealth of new monitoring system.
through Ukraine to western Europe.
information to our database Such access would permit PPC to Operationally, an additional well testing increase its gas production above the facility will enable PPC to maintain its The positive outcome, however, is that capacity of the existing facility.
The flow regulatory reporting and provide better the reservoir is still amenable to line was laid in early 2007 and a hot tap reservoir monitoring and management fracturing and plans are being drawn was carried out.
as the number of producing wells up for a new programme in all the increases.
The large number of wells in The installation of an additional gas Rudenkovskoye wells which incorporate the Molchanovskoye field will increase compressor and second hydrocarbon production history from all three wells, the demand for additional gas lift dewpoint are on schedule for completion the outcome of the R101 stimulation and capacity and a Molchanovskoye gas by the end of the first quarter of 2008, but the extensive data gathering from R102.
distribution facility is due for delays in receiving the revised regulatory commissioning in the second quarter.
specifications for the metering system Reserves has meant a considerable delay in being The addition of 13 new wells in 2007 and Exploration licences able to place the order for this long-lead the development of reserves in the fields PPC holds three exploration licences item.
Consequently, the revised delivery has added a wealth of new information to in Ukraine.
of this critical part of the system will our database.
As these new reserves are enable PPC to start commissioning of Zaplavskoye developed, additional production history the Soyuz gas system by the end of the This licence is adjacent to the enables more accurate reservoir second quarter.
Molchanovskoye production licence and modelling to be undertaken and each comprises an area of 95.7sq.
The of the reservoirs in the Ignatovskoye Upgrading of the oil and gas systems permit is valid until 2010.
During 2006, main, Molchanovskoye main and continues at the Central Production an exploration well was drilled targeting Molchanovskoye north areas are being Facility formerly the Early Production a Devonian sandstone prospect to the modelled through 2008 to determine the Facility or EPF, both to give greater south of the Molchanovskoye field.
remaining reserves in the field.
The new flexibility in handling the various Share of Ukraine oil production Share of Ukraine gas production 77% 42% JKX share JKX share 2.0 MMbbl 15.4 Bcf Total market 7% produced Total market 5% produced 35.4 MMbbl by private 727.5 Bcf by private companies companies Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 17 No hydrocarbons were encountered and establish conditions under which PPC the well was abandoned.
However, the can initiate production from this licence.
data obtained, together with 16km of Chervonoyarske East additional seismic acquisition and The Chervonoyarske East licence was reprocessing of the initial seismic, has obtained in December 2005 from an led to the identification of a new prospect open auction held by the Ministry of which will be drilled in mid-2008.
The Examination of the 3D seismic data licence covers a total area of 5.5sq.
km extending into the licence from south of and is located about 75km from the PPC the Novo-Nikolaevskoye licence and west production licences on the northern of the Ignatovskoye licence has revealed margin of the Dneiper-Donetsk basin.
the presence of channel sands in the It is adjacent to the Chervonoyarske field Visean and a lead developed which may and has produced gas condensate from also have secondary objectives in the Carboniferous reservoirs.
At least six Tournasian and Devonian.
Drilling will wells have previously been drilled by depend on further seismic reprocessing other parties within the licence area, and evaluation.
one of which produced small quantities of hydrocarbons.
Elizavetovskoye Located in the central part of the Evaluation of the data package Dnieper-Donetsk basin, the purchased with the licence, including a Elizavetovskoye licence covers an area 100km 2D seismic survey, has revealed of 70sq.
km and is approximately 45km the potential for trapping of from PPCs existing production licences.
hydrocarbons against a substantial salt wall in the block.
However, resolution of The licence benefits from having a the 2D data beneath the salt is structural feature that is associated with insufficient to define any prospects and the adjacent Mashivske field.
km 3D survey is planned for 2008. of wells have been drilled on this feature and some have been placed on production.
PPCs licence contains three such producing wells.
The producing wells are owned by Ukrgasvydobuvannya, a subsidiary of Naftogas of Ukraine, the state oil and gas company, and are tied into its production facility.
Negotiations, which slowed during the election season, are progressing with Ukrgasvydobuvannya to resolve the issues related to these wells, and to 18 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operations review Russia For more information go online to: www.
co. uk Koshekhablskoye Field camp facilities and commissioning of a scheduled for the fourth quarter of In November 2007 JKX completed the 3D seismic survey over the licence area.
purchase of 100 per cent of the shares Office facilities have been established in Most of the proven and probable in Yuzhgazenergie LLC YGE.
YGE holds Maikop, the capital of Adygea, and reserves are in the Jurassic Oxfordian the licence for the redevelopment of Moscow.
carbonate reservoir which lies between the Koshekhablskoye gas field which 4,700m and 6,600m and will be the is located in the southern Russian subject of the initial redevelopment.
Proved gas reserves in the autonomous Republic of Adygea.
The Possible reserves are contained in the licence covers an area of 34.7sq.
Field are 114 Bcf and proved underlying Callovian sandstones which The Field was discovered in 1972 and will be the target of an appraisal well to plus probable gas reserves produced a total 89 Bcf of gas before be spudded in late 2008.
3D seismic are 216 Bcf operations were suspended in January designed to finalise the location for this 2006.
In June 2006, YGE was granted a well has commenced and the first phase YGE is working closely with its new 20-year licence to rehabilitate and of 55sq.
km is due for completion in environmental consultants to ensure that further appraise and develop the Field.
The second phase of the redevelopment meets, and preferably Miller and Lents Ltd, independent oil and 50sq.
km will cover the rest of the Field exceeds, all current Russian legislation gas consultants engaged by JKX, has and be concluded in the winter of as well as international best practice, estimated that remaining proved gas 2008-2009.
JKXs HSEC manager has been involved reserves in the Field are 114 Bcf and in the design and redevelopment proved plus probable gas reserves are programme from the beginning.
The project was scheduled to produce Field rehabilitation and development is first gas in mid-2008 and it is expected under way, consisting of the design and that testing of the wells will commence sourcing of replacement processing around that time.
However, the extensive facilities, including a sour gas treatment nature of the facility reconstruction plant, testing of existing wellheads and coupled with an increase in the initial flowlines, mobilisation of a drilling rig to plant capacity dictate that first initiate workovers on existing wells five commercial production is currently are planned for 2008, procurement of Koshekhablskoye licence area Moscow Koshekhablskoye Koshekhablskoye licence area licence area ADYGEA Krasnodar Kiev Koshekhablskoye Novorossiysk Maikop Poltava Dzhubga Koshekhablskoye licence area Krasnodar Sochi ADYGEA ADYGEA Maikop Licence area Licence area Pipelines Licence area 0 225 km 0 100 km 0 10 km Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 19 Operations review Georgia For more information go online to: www.
co. uk West Georgia offshore In 2007, Anadarko set up a new data JKX holds a 4 per cent net profit interest room and invited proposals from a in the Georgian Black Sea Production number of potential co-venturers to Sharing contract.
The contract covers expand the consortium of companies in an area of 8,900sq.
km offshore Georgia the licence area.
We understand there approximately 80 per cent of the were a number of expressions of interest Georgian Black sea shelf and is but no additional partners have been operated by Anadarko Petroleum announced to date and there are no Corporation.
plans for any drilling in the short term.
km 3D seismic survey in the south of the block adjacent to BP TPAOs Turkish licence from which it identified a number of significant leads.
The primary target is deep-water turbiditic Miocene sandstone at depths of between 3,000 and 4,000m below sea level.
Water depth in the prospective area varies from 1,000 to 1,500m.
In July 2005, BP, TPAO, and Chevron who jointly held the licence in the adjoining Turkish Black Sea area, spudded a well very close to the edge of JKXs contract area.
No results were released but all indications are that it was unsuccessful and BP and Chevron subsequently notified their intention to withdraw from both the block in Turkey and from offshore Georgia.
Georgia licence area West Georgia offshore licence Block IIA Offshore Block IIB Block III 0 150 km 0 60 km 20 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operations review Bulgaria For more information go online to: www.
co. uk JKX farmed into two onshore exploration Golitza R1 was drilled in 2007 to a total B1 Golitza permit permits in Bulgaria B Golitza and B1 depth of up to 4,517m encountering three There are two distinct parts to the B1 Golitza in March 2005.
The blocks, out of four of the main objectives in the Golitza permit: the northern area which covering a total of 3,499sq.
km, contained Jurassic and Triassic all within 50m of shares geological properties similar to well defined prospects and leads.
the B Golitza permit and the eastern area has a 50 per cent interest and which is comprised of much younger operatorship in both permits.
Balkan and shallower Tertiary age rocks that Several attractive leads are Explorers Bulgaria Limited, a whollyshow geological characteristics similar owned subsidiary of Aurelian Oil & Gas to the western Black Sea.
The primary now being covered by a 3D Limited, has the balance of the interest reservoirs within the permit have been seismic survey which should in these permits.
identified as Eocene and Oligocene age turbidite sandstones.
Previously, several lead to the identification of Bulgaria became a member of the gas fields have been discovered, both to European Union on 1 January 2007 and one or more drillable the north and east, as well as inside the offers excellent operating terms with an prospects during 2008 permit itself.
open gas market and extensive infrastructure.
The evaluation of the reprocessed preThe well results supported the structural 2005 2D seismic data and the part of the model and confirmed the geological B Golitza permit 2005 seismic dataset that was acquired sequence beneath the Miocene age The Golitza prospect was a large tilted over B1 Golitza confirmed the presence Balkan Thrust Front.
However, the fault block of Moesian Platform of several attractive leads with prominent absence of hydrocarbons in the structure sediments Jurassic sands and shales amplitude anomalies.
These are now suggests that its relationship with the and Triassic limestones and shales that being covered by a 3D seismic survey regional source rock maturity and had been overridden by the thrusts which should lead to the identification of migration model requires further study.
The 2D seismic one or more drillable prospects during Exploration in the B Golitza permit will acquired in late 2005 firmed up the 2008. now be focused on the definition of location for an exploration well, Golitza prospects north west of the Golitza R1 R1 to test the prospect which had the well location.
potential to contain several hundred Bcf of gas.
Bulgaria licence area Golitza licences B-Golitza B1-Golitza West B1-Golitza East East Omurtag Golitza Ajtos N. Golitza Preslav W. Golitza Golitza Leads Prospects New seismic lines 0 145 km 0 34 km Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 21 Operations review Turkey For more information go online to: www.
co. uk JKX expanded its operations to include found deeper in the section but despite Arar Petrol five Gaz Aup AS ARAR which Turkey in 2005.
Currently JKX has five extensive stimulation and testing, the is a private Turkish exploration and exploration licences in south east well failed to flow commercial quantities production company.
The 2008 exploration Turkey three Karakilise and two South of oil and has been suspended.
programme comprises acquisition of East Bismil Licences.
120km of new 2D seismic data and In line with the work programme, drilling Well Koyunlu 2, an appraisal South East Turkey Karakilise Karakilise 1 was re-entered and to the 2006 Cretaceous discovery Well JKX holds a 30 per cent interest in three deepened by approximately 2,000 ft in Koyunlu 1 to the north of the licence.
exploration licences in south east Turkey October 2006.
The purpose of this was close to the city of Diyarbakir.
This group to evaluate the Triassic, Hazro and The South East Bismil licences are of three permits, together known as the Ordovician Bedinan formations within situated immediately south of the giant Karakilise Licence, is operated by a mapped four-way dip closure.
The Bati Raman oilfield which produces from Aladdin Middle East Inc AME and covers deepened well failed to find hydrocarbon Cretaceous age carbonates of the Mardin a total of 1,230sq.
km and contains a in these horizons and was plugged Group.
discovery well Karakilise 1 and in December 2006.
The production associated production facilities.
The facilities have been mothballed.
North West Turkey Thrace Karakilise discovery is close to a number In October 2005, JKX farmed into two Further interpretation work is being of fields discovered by Shell between onshore exploration licences in the carried out on the seismic data within the 1960 and 1980.
Thrace region in the west of Turkey block to the south of the Karakilise field earning a 25 per cent interest in the Karakilise 1 was drilled in 2003 and and in 2007 a further 60km of seismic permits.
initially flowed at a rate of 300 bopd from data was acquired in order to bring the the Cretaceous Mardin formation, a lead to ready-to-drill status in 2008.
The licences contain two strong leads, fractured carbonate which is the primary but additional seismic data is required producing horizon in this area.
Appraisal South East Turkey South East Bismil to firm up drillable prospects.
The 2006 well Karakilise 2 was drilled during the Just after the reporting period, JKX seismic verified the presence of the second quarter of 2005.
Karakilise 2 announced that it was farming into two prospects, but they turned out to be found the Mardin reservoir close to the adjacent licences covering 590sq.
km smaller than expected and JKX is expected depth.
However, the reservoir together known as the South East Bismil withdrawing from the licence.
quality in the upper oil-bearing section licences.
JKX earned a 20 per cent was poor.
Better reservoir quality was interest in the licences from the operator, Turkey licence areas Karakilise licences Karakilise Discovery Well Karakilise S. E. Bismil 0 400 km 0 15 km 22 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operations review Hungary For more information go online to: www.
co. uk In December 2007, JKX farmed into two Interpretation of the 3D seismic data has exploration licences, Hernd I and commenced and potential prospects are Hernd II, covering a total of 5,420sq.
km being identified for the drilling of up to in the north Hungarian Pannonian Basin.
The licences are valid through 2013 In addition, several other play types in the subject to a continuing work programme.
northern part of the licences have been JKX has farmed in for a 50 per cent identified from 2D seismic data and interest in the licences which are offset well information, and remain to currently held 100 per cent by the be fully evaluated.
operator, Hungarian Horizon Energy HHE, a subsidiary of Aspect Holdings Potential prospects are being LLC formerly Aspect Energy, a private US independent.
HHE is a leading identified for the drilling of explorer in the Pannonian Basin.
up to two wells later in 2008 The southern part of the licences includes a typical Pannonian Basin stratigraphy with the potential for both structural and stratigraphic traps within Miocene age reservoirs.
km was completed in the licences in late 2007.
The large 3D seismic volume, in combination with the derived amplitude versus offset AVO data, has the potential to reduce the exploration risk significantly for this type of play.
Hernd licence area Hernd licence Hernd Hernd licence area Budapest HUNGARY HUNGARY Licence area Licence area 0 250 km 0 50 km Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 23 Operations review USA For more information go online to: www.
However, JKX no longer JKX holds a 34.3 per cent working views the acreage as core to its interest in 11,290 acres in the West programme and is continuing to seek Huxley Deep Unit in Shelby County, East an exit at an appropriate time.
Newfield Exploration took over the operatorship from Rosetta Energy Partners LP in 2007.
The primary geological target in the unit is the Lower Cretaceous James Lime formation, which produces gas from a number of wells adjacent to the unit, most notably in the Huxley field where a number of wells with multiple horizontal laterals have been drilled.
Three wells have been drilled but despite acidisation and a number of other attempts to improve their productivity, it has not been possible to maintain continuous production.
It has therefore been concluded that the reservoir properties in this part of the unit are poor.
Currently, there remain a number of areas on the unit where it is believed commercial quantities of hydrocarbons can be found below the units initial target, the James Lime and the arrival of the new operator should give some stimulus to the exploration programme to the underlying Travis Peak and Pettet USA licence area West Huxley Deep Unit Well CDU-5 Well AB-1 Well AK-1 West Huxley Deep Unit 0 1500 km 0 1.75 km 24 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007
