O Ou ur r s su uc cc ce es ss s iin n t ta ak kiin ng g f fu ullll a ad dv va an nt ta ag ge e o of f t th he e w wiid fide es sp pr re ea ad d s st tr ro on ng g d fide em ma an nd d f fo or r o ou ur r p pr ro od du uc ct ts s o ov five er r r re ec ce en nt t y ye ea ar rs s h ha as s b be ee en n d du ue e t to o o ou ur r o on ng go oiin ng g iin nv five es st tm me en nt t iin n t th he e G Gr ro ou up p Justin Atkinson, Chief Executive O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w J Ju us st tiin n A At tk kiin ns so on n 2007 was another excellent year for the P Pr riin nc ciip pa all r riis sk ks s a an nd d u un nc ce er rt ta aiin nt tiie es s T Te ec ch hn niic ca all r riis sk k Group, in which we maintained, and The main areas of uncertainty facing the Group relate It is in the nature of our business that we continually built upon, the growth of the previous to market conditions, acquisitions, technical risk and assess and manage technical, and other operational, two years and demonstrated the people.
These also represent the Groups greatest risks.
The controls we have in place, particularly at the benefits of our increased geographic opportunities and how we manage risks is a key crucial stage of bidding for contracts, are discussed in differentiator between Keller and similar businesses.
the Internal Control section of the Corporate and operational scale.
Increasingly, given our size, it is unlikely that any one contract is able to Conditions in our major markets materially affect the results of the Group and the M Ma ar rk ke et t c cy yc clle es s In the US, the public infrastructure and average contract value approximately 100k in 2007 Whilst our business will always be subject to economic commercial sectors remained very strong, is important in this respect.
Our ability to manage cycles, market risk is reduced by the diversity of our technical risks will generally be reflected in our with 2007 non-residential expenditure as a markets, both in terms of geography and market profitability.
whole around 16% higher than the previous segment.
It is also partially offset by opportunities for 1 year.
As expected, there was further consolidation in our highly fragmented markets.
Typically, even where we are the clear leader, we still contraction in the residential sector, with P Pe eo op plle e have a relatively small share of the market.
Our ability to housing starts for single-family homes exploit these opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions The risk of losing, or not being able to attract, good ending the year some 29% down on is reflected in our track record of growing sales, and people is key and never more so than in buoyant 2 2006.
Taken as a whole, construction doing so profitably, across market cycles.
We pride ourselves in having some of the expenditure in the US reduced, year on growth compared with the growth of our markets.
best professional and skilled people in the industry, 1 who are motivated by our culture and the opportunities year, by around 2.5%.
The processes for training and developing employees are discussed in the Social Our principal European markets France, A Ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on ns s Responsibility Report on page 27.
Germany, Spain, UK and Eastern Europe We recognise the risks associated with acquisitions showed good growth overall, particularly and our approach to buying businesses aims to in the infrastructure sector to which our manage these to acceptable levels.
First, we try to get to know a target company, often working in joint businesses have a significant exposure.
venture, to understand the operational and cultural Elsewhere, the Middle East and Australia differences and potential synergies.
This is followed by a robust due diligence process, most of which is both experienced unprecedented levels of undertaken by our own managers, and we then construction activity.
develop a clear integration plan which takes account of the unique character of the target company.
KPI: return on net operating assets.
1 The US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce, 1 February 2008 2 Monthly housing starts published by the National Association of Home Builders in February 2008 O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w Keller Group plc 9 9
