Performance, risk and sustainability Alternative Performance Measures APMs We assess our performance using a variety of measures that are not specifically defined under IFRS and are therefore termed APMs.
The APMs that we use may not be directly comparable with those used by other companies.
Our Investment basis is itself an APM.
The explanation of and rationale for the Investment basis and its reconciliation to IFRS is provided on page 38 to 42.
The table below defines our additional APMs.
APM Purpose Calculation Reconciliation to IFRS Gross investment return A measure of the performance It is calculated as the gross The equivalent balances under as a percentage of opening of our proprietary investment return, as shown IFRS and the reconciliation to the portfolio value investment portfolio.
in the Investment basis Investment basis are shown in the Consolidated statement of Reconciliation of the consolidated For further information see the comprehensive income, as a % statement of comprehensive Group KPIs on page 16. of the opening portfolio value.
income and the Reconciliation ofthe consolidated statement of financial position respectively.
Cash realisations Cash proceeds from our The cash received from the The equivalent balance under investments support our disposal of investments in the IFRS and the reconciliation to the returns to shareholders, as year as shown in the Investment Investment basis is shown in the well as our ability to invest in basis Consolidated cash Reconciliation of the consolidated new opportunities.
For further information see the Group KPIs on page 16.
Cash investment Identifying new opportunities in The cash paid to acquire The equivalent balance under which to invest proprietary capital investments in the year as IFRS and the reconciliation to the is the primary driver of the shown on the Investment basis Investment basis is shown in the Groups ability to deliver Consolidated cash Reconciliation of the consolidated attractive returns.
Operating cash profit By covering the cash cost of The cash income from the The equivalent balance under running the business with cash portfolio interest, dividends IFRS and the reconciliation to the income, we reduce the potential and fees together with fees Investment basis is shown in the dilution of capital returns.
received from external funds Reconciliation of the consolidated less cash operating expenses cash flow statement.
as shown on the Investment basis Consolidated cash flow statement.
The calculation is shown in Table 12 of the Financial review.
Net cash net debt A measure of the available cash Cash and cash equivalents plus The equivalent balance under to invest in the business and an deposits less loans and IFRS and the reconciliation to the indicator of the financial risk in borrowings as shown on the Investment basis is shown in the the Groups balance sheet.
Investment basis Consolidated Reconciliation of the consolidated statement of financial position.
Gearing A measure of the financial risk Net debt as defined above as a The equivalent balance under in the Groups balance sheet.
% of the Groups net assets under IFRS and the reconciliation to the the Investment basis.
It cannot be Investment basis is shown in the less than zero.
Reconciliation of the consolidated statement of financial position.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 43
