Governance and accounts Directors statement of 3.925 pence per share 2017: 3.775 pence be paid Principal activity inrespect of the year to 31 March 2018 to shareholders The Company is a closed-ended investment company onthe register at the close of business on 15 June 2018. that invests in infrastructure businesses and assets.
Thedistribution of the dividend payments between The Directors do not anticipate any change in the interim and final dividends is evaluated by the Board principal activity of the Company in the foreseeable each year, according to the Companys performance, future.
Its unconsolidated subsidiaries are shown on portfolio income generation and other factors, such as pages 106 and 107. profits generated on the realisation of portfolio assets.
The Company will be targeting a dividend for FY19 Regulation of8.65 pence per share.
The Company is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as a collective investment fund under the Collective Strategy, performance and principal risks Investment Funds Jersey Law 1988.
It has a Premium The Strategic report on pages 1 to 53 provides a review Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
of the performance and position of the Company, AIFMD together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive entered into force on 22 July 2013.
Operations The Company is a non-EU Alternative Investment Fund The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors AIF and is internally managed, which means that the and no employees.
The Board acts as the Companys Board of the Company also performs the functions of an Investment Committee and is responsible for the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the determination and supervision of the investment policy Directive and the AIF and the AIFM are the same entity.
and for the approval of investment opportunities sourced As a non-EU AIFM, the Company is currently outside the by the Investment Adviser.
full scope of the Directive, but is subject to a number of the Directives requirements when it markets the The Board also supervises the monitoring of existing Companys securities within the EU, depending on when investments and approves divestments and further and how such marketing of securities is performed.
NMPI Advisory arrangements On 31 January 2014, the Company issued a statement 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned noting the changes to the UK Financial Conduct subsidiary of 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Authority FCA rules regarding the restrictions on the Adviser to the Company.
The investment advisory team retail distribution of unregulated collective investment provides advice to the Company on the origination and schemes and close substitutes non-mainstream pooled completion of new investments, on the realisation of investments, or NMPIs, which came into effect on investments, on funding requirements, as well as on the 1 January 2014. management of the investment portfolio.
It provides In this statement, the Company asserted that its its services under an Investment Advisory Agreement shares are excluded from these rules and therefore the the IAA, which includes an investment exclusivity restrictions relating to NMPIs will not apply to its shares.
arrangement in respect of investment opportunities within the Companys investment policy.
It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in such a manner that the Other significant service arrangements Companys shares will continue to be excluded from the In addition to the arrangements described above, FCAs rules relating to NMPIs.
3i plc and 3i Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been appointed by the Company to Results and dividends provide support services to the Group, including treasury The Financial statements of the Company and its and accounting services, investor relations and other consolidated subsidiary together referred to as the back office support services.
The amounts payable Group for the year appear on pages 84 to 87.
Total under these arrangements are described in more detail comprehensive income for the year was 479.6 million in Note 18 on page 105.
An interim dividend of 3.925 pence Link Alternative Fund Services Jersey Limited acts as the per share 2017: 3.775 pence in respect of the year to Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company.
A special dividend of 41.4 pence per share was paid on 29 March 2018.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 75 Governance and accounts Directors statement continued In the period from 1 April 2018 to 30 April 2018, there Revolving Credit Facility were no changes in the interests of each serving Director.
The Company has a 300 million revolving credit facility RCF in order to maintain an appropriate level of Directors authority to buy back shares liquidity for further investment whilst minimising returns The Company did not purchase any of its own shares dilution from holding excessive cash balances.
The current authority of the Company athree-year facility, and the maturity date was extended to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued in April 2017 by one year to May 2020. ordinary share capital expires at the next AGM, to be In April 2017, the Company increased the size of the RCF held on 5 July 2018 the 2018 AGM.
The Company will from 300 million to 500 million on a temporary basis seek to renew such authority until the end of the AGM to March 2018.
This increase was cancelled in February in 2019, specifying the maximum and minimum price 2018 following receipt of the proceeds on the divestment at which shares can be bought back.
ordinary shares will be made subject to Jersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks will be at the In April 2018, the Company refinanced the RCF with the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases will existing lenders.
The new RCF has a lower margin and also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of non-utilisation fees, and a maturity date of May 2021 with the FCA which provide that the price paid must not be two one-year extension options.
more than the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the five Share capital business days before the shares are purchased: and ii The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March the higher of the last independent trade and the highest 2018 was 810,434,010 ordinary shares 2017: 1,026,549,746. current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange The reduction in issued share capital was a result of the at such time.
Directors conflicts of interests Major interests in ordinary shares The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of Notifications of the following voting interests in the interest with the Company.
The Companys Articles of Companys ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2018 Association enable the Directors to approve conflicts of and 30 April 2018, which are disclosable in accordance interest and include other conflict of interest provisions.
with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency The Company has implemented processes to identify Rules, are as follows: potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts Number of Number of are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, ordinary % of ordinary % of 1 1 if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
shares as at issued shares as at issued Interest in 31 March share 30 April share ordinary shares 2018 capital 2018 capital Directors indemnities 3i Group plc The Companys Articles of Association provide that, and subsidiaries 272,137,294 33.58 272,137,294 33.58 subject to the provisions of the Statutes, every Director Schroders plc 67,405,098 8.32 63,504,473 7.84 of the Company shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities and expenses incurred 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
by him or her in the actual or purported execution Directors interests ordischarge of his or her duties.
Statutes here refers to theCompanies Jersey Law 1991 and every other In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors statute, regulation or order for the time being in force interests in the shares of the Company in respect of concerning companies registered under the Companies which transactions are notifiable to the Company under Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors 31 March 2018 are shown below: and these remain in force at the date of this report.
Directors interests Ordinary shares 1 and beneficial interests at 31 March 2018 The Company also had directors and officers liability Richard Laing 30,000 insurance in place in the year.
Doug Bannister 9,868 Wendy Dorman 18,947 Ian Lobley 0 Paul Masterton 21,194 Robert Jennings 50,000 1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
76 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts b the Annual report and accounts include a fair review Statement of Directors responsibilities of the development and performance of the business The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and the position of the Group taken as a whole, report and accounts in accordance with applicable together with a description of the principal risks and law and regulations and those International Financial uncertainties faced by the Company.
Reporting Standards IFRSs which have been adopted by the European Union.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 56, 57 and 60.
As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure is subject to the FCAs Listing Rules The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as well as to in relation to the Financial statements for the year to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, where 31 March 2018. it is incorporated.
Going concern Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare The Companys business activities, together with financial statements for each financial period in the factors likely to affect its future development, accordance with generally accepted accounting performance and position are set out in the Strategic principles.
The Financial statements of the Group are report on pages 1 to 53 and in the Financial statements required by law to give a true and fair view of the state and related Notes on pages 84 to 107.
The financial of affairs of the Group at the period end and of the profit position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position or loss of the Group for the period then ended.
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial In preparing these Financial statements, the Directors statements and related Notes on pages 84 to 107. should: Inaddition, Note 9 to the Financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes select suitable accounting policies and then apply formanaging its capital, its financial risk management them consistently: objectives, details of its financial instruments and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk specify which generally accepted accounting principles and liquidity risk.
have been adopted in their preparation: and The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong prepare the Financial statements on the going concern investment portfolio providing a predictable income basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the yield and an expectation of medium-term capital growth.
Company will continue in business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting is well placed to manage its business risks successfully records which are sufficient to show and explain the and to cover its dividend in the next financial year.
Groups transactions and are such as to disclose with Aftermaking enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of expectation that the Company has adequate resources the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable statements prepared by the Group comply with the future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. concern basis in preparing the Annual report and They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets accounts.
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps By order of the Board for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Authorised signatory irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Link Alternative Fund Services Jersey Limited Annual report and accounts and the Directors confirm Company Secretary that they consider that, taken as a whole, the Annual 10 May 2018 report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Registered Office: to assess the Companys performance, business model 12 Castle Street and strategy.
St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Channel Islands Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best oftheir knowledge that: a the Financial statements, prepared in accordance withapplicable accounting standards, give a true andfair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position andprofit or loss of the Group taken as a whole: and 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 77
