Governance and accounts Accountability Audit and Risk Committee Committee remit Wendy Dorman During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman undertook its responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference, as detailed on the Companys website.
Matters reviewed in the year The principal matters reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee during the year are described below.
Financial reporting The Committee has a focus The Committee reviewed and made recommendations on financial reporting, risk tothe Board regarding significant accounting matters management and auditors and the accounting disclosures in the Half-yearly report independence and objectivity to and Annual report and accounts of the Company.
support the Company in meeting The most significant recurring matters of judgement considered by the Committee were: its strategy.
valuation of the Companys investment portfolio this Number of year, the areas examined included the level of discount meetings rates applied in valuation models and the calculation while a ofterminal values, with a particular focus on those used Committee for economic infrastructure assets.
The Committee also Members member Attendance reviewed changes to the assumed short-term inflation Wendy Dorman 4 4 rate used in the valuation model.
These matters were Doug Bannister 4 4 discussed with the Investment Adviser and the auditor, including the auditors infrastructure valuation expert: Robert Jennings 0 0 investment income recognition the Committee Paul Masterton 4 4 reviewed monthly management information for the Steven Wilderspin 3 3 portfolio and individual portfolio companies to identify where variances of income from expectations required All members served throughout the further exploration: year, except for Steven Wilderspin, who calculation of the advisory and performance fees resigned as a Director of the Company payable to the Investment Adviser as well as with effect from 31 December 2017 and the review of valuations, which drive advisory and Robert Jennings, who was appointed to performance fees, noted above, the Committee the Committee with effect from 1 February undertook a detailed review of each step in the 2018.
The qualifications of the members of performance fee calculation.
The Committee also had the Audit and Risk Committee are set out access to a review of the calculation of the performance in the biographical details of the Directors fee carried out by the internal audit function of the on pages 56 and 57.
All the members Investment Adviser and engaged the auditor to of the Audit and Risk Committee are perform additional work to agree that the advisory and independent non-executive Directors.
performance fees were calculated in accordance with The Chairman of the Company is not a the underlying Investment Advisory Agreement: and member of the Committee but attends by invitation.
TheBoard is satisfied that investment entity considerations the Committee the Audit and Risk Committee chairman, reviewed the assessment that the Company continues Wendy Dorman, has recent and relevant to meet the criteria of an investment entity.
As part of financial experience and is a Chartered this exercise, the Committee assessed the new entities Accountant.
which were invested into during the year.
All of these are considered to be investment holding companies For Terms of Reference, see our website orproject SPVs and therefore they are held at fair value www.
com through profit or loss.
68 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts The Committee considered the requirements of the External audit UKCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Shareholders approved at the AGM in July 2017 that Report Regulations 2013 with which it is complying Deloitte LLP be appointed as external auditor for the voluntarily, in line with best practice reporting.
Jacqueline Holden has been Committee specifically reviewed the Annual report and the audit partner for Deloitte LLP since appointment.
accounts to conclude whether the financial reporting Deloitte LLP replaced Ernst and Young LLP who had is fair, balanced, understandable, comprehensive and been the Companys auditor since inception in 2007. consistent with how the Board assesses the performance There were no matters in connection with Ernst & Young of the Companys business during the financial year, as LLPs retirement as auditor which needed to be brought required for companies with a Premium Listing under the to the attention of shareholders.
As part of this review, the Committee considered if The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the the Annual report and accounts provided the information effectiveness of the external audit process during necessary to shareholders to assess the Companys the year, considering performance, objectivity, position, performance, strategy and business model independence and relevant experience demonstrated and reviewed the description of the Companys Key by reports and presentations from the audit team and Performance Indicators.
discussion with the Investment Adviser, and concluded In addition to the above matters, the Committee that Deloitte LLPs appointment as the Companys reviewed the following areas: auditor should be continued.
valuation of derivative financial instruments: The Committee monitors the external auditors post balance sheet events: independence and objectivity, taking into consideration the impact of upcoming accounting standards: relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
As part of this review, the Committee monitors the the section on significant accounting polices was Companys policy for non-audit services to ensure restructured to acknowledge the comments made in that the provision of such services by the external the Financial Reporting Councils recently published auditor does not impair the auditors independence or Corporate reporting thematic review: and objectivity.
The Committee reviewed and updated the other changes in presentation within the report to policy for non-audit services during the year.
In order improve clarity for users.
to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee is required The Committee also reviewed its Terms of Reference to to approve all non-audit work undertaken by the auditor ensure that the Committee is still operating effectively.
for the Company and its subsidiaries in advance, and The Committee presented its conclusions on the as a general rule the auditor will not be engaged on above areas to the Board and advised the Board that investment-related work.
However, exceptions to this may itconsidered the Annual report and accounts, taken be permitted if i the Company is acting in a consortium, as awhole, to be fair, balanced and understandable ii the auditor is considered a specialist in the sector, and that it provides the information necessary for or iii the auditor is best placed to undertake the work the shareholders to assess the Companys position, through its knowledge of the Companys financial performance, business model and strategy.
systems, procedures and internal controls.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 69 Governance and accounts Accountability Audit and Risk Committee continued Deloitte LLP and its associates provided non-audit Other matters services to the consolidated Group for fees totalling Other matters reviewed by the Committee during the 55,765 for the year to 31 March 2018 2017: fees year were: paid to Ernst & Young LLP totalled 364,156.
This the effectiveness of the internal control environment related to agreed-upon procedures on the advisory ofthe Company and the Companys compliance with and performance fees 7,000, a review of the interim its regulatory requirements: financial statements 40,000 and an interim dividend the coverage of the proposed interim and final report for two of the Luxembourg subsidiaries 8,765. dividends, including a review of the Boards assessment In this financial year, in line with the Companys policy, of the coverage of dividend payments through Deloitte LLP provided non-audit services during the income generated by the Company, non-income cash year in relation to certain non-consolidated investee distributions received from portfolio companies, net companies.
The fees for these services are ordinarily capital profits generated from the sale of portfolio borne by the underlying investee companies or assets and retained reserves: unconsolidated subsidiaries, and therefore are not included in the expenses of the Group.
In assessing the tax, governance and regulatory considerations auditors independence, the Committee reviews the total relating to the intended move to UK management amount of fees paid to the auditor in accordance with and tax domicile: the stated policy on non-audit services, regardless of the Companys compliance with its regulatory whether they are borne by the Group or by the investee obligations in Jersey, including a review of compliance companies.
with the Codes of Practice for Certified Funds: the Group structure with consideration being made to Risk ensuring it was still appropriate for current legislation: During the year the Committee: and reviewed and updated the risk matrix, where the results of the Investment Advisers internal audit appropriate, to reflect the Companys key risks: and compliance work in respect of the Investment conducted detailed risk reviews of BEPS, Cyber security Advisers obligations to the Company.
and Terrorism, as detailed in the Risk report on pages The Committee reported to the Board on how 45, 47 and 48: and ithas discharged its responsibilities and reported considered the presentation of risk-related matters in totheBoard the key matters arising at each meeting.
the Annual report and accounts.
All recommendations were accepted by the Board.
Wendy Dorman Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 10 May 2018 70 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Accountability R eport of the Nomination Comm ittee The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal Richard Laing and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Chairman Directors, including interviewing potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, however, are taken by the entire Board.
The Nomination Committee can use the services of external search consultancies when new Directors are being recruited.
As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has to take account of the residence of Directors The Committee aims toensure and the split between UK and Jersey resident Directors.
that the Board composition is balanced andeffective.
Matters reviewed in the year The Committee has undertaken succession planning, Number of to ensure that processes and plans are in place with meetings regards to Board appointments dealing with succession while a Committee and diversity.
Members member Attendance The Committee recommended the appointment of Richard Laing 4 4 Robert Jennings as a new independent Director to the Board.
The appointment of Robert Jennings to the Board Wendy Dorman 4 4 is consistent with the Companys policy on diversity set Paul Masterton 4 4 out in the introduction on page 55.
In addition, there were several informal Established succession plans led to the appointment discussions held between the members of Wendy Dorman as Chairman of the Audit and Risk in relation to matters agreed at the Committee during the year following the retirement scheduled meetings.
of Steven Wilderspin from the Board at the end of 2017, and the appointment of Paul Masterton as Senior For Terms of Reference, see our website Independent Director in the previous year following the www.
com retirement of Phil Austin at the end of 2016.
The Committee also reviewed its Terms of Reference to ensure that the Committee is still operating effectively.
Richard Laing Chairman, Nomination Committee 10 May 2018 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 71 Governance and accounts Accountability R eport of the Management Engagement Committee The Committee monitored the overall Richard Laing relationship with the Investment Adviser Chairman and among specific topics it: Management of the relationship monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance against the Companys targets and with theInvestment Adviser general market conditions: iskeyto the performance of the reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and Company.
relevance of the information provided to the Board, Number of including recommendations on new investments meetings and disposals, and reviews of portfolio company while a performance: Committee Members member Attendance reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance of listed infrastructure investment Richard Laing 7 7 companies, including an analysis of the terms of their Doug Bannister 7 7 advisory agreements and fees charged: Wendy Dorman 7 7 reviewed the fees charged to the Company by Robert Jennings 1 1 the Investment Adviser for the provision of its Paul Masterton 7 7 advisory services: Steven Wilderspin 5 5 reviewed non-investment services provided by the Investment Adviser: and All members served throughout the initiated the preparation of a new Management year, except for Steven Wilderspin, who Agreement, with appropriate terms and fees, resigned as a Director of the Company with the intention of moving tax domicile and with effect from 31 December 2017 and management of the Company to the UK with effect Robert Jennings who was appointed to from 1 October 2018. the Committee with effect from 1 February 2018.
The Committee concluded that the continued appointment of 3i Investments plc as Investment Adviser While the remit of the Committee is to is in the best interest of shareholders.
manage all aspects of the relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is to consider annually, and Richard Laing recommend to the Board, whether the Chairman, Nomination Committee continued appointment of the Investment 10 May 2018 Adviser is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons for its recommendation.
TheCommittee also reviews the terms ofthe Investment Advisory Agreement.
For Terms of Reference, see our website www.
com 72 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018
