Investment Advisers review Review from the Managing Partner It was a very strong year for the Company excellent realisations, a high level of new investment, good performance from the portfolio, and a special dividend for shareholders.
Phil White Managing Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc 10 May 2018 13 Investment Advisers review Rev iew from the Managing Partner continued The process attracted offers from We supported the expansion Realisations bidders across four continents, and ofTCRs footprint across Europe This year we sold our two largest this strong competitive dynamic notably Italy and Germany, investments.
We had held our coupled with excellent execution, continued to build its presence stake in Anglian Water since our secured a binding offer at a price we in Malaysia through new contract IPO in 2007 and we are proud of consider to be outstanding.
wins and seen TCRs entry into the development of that business the Australian market through in our period of ownership.
As well These two realisations, combined the acquisition of a leading local as delivering a good return for its with sales achieved in previous repairand maintenance business.
shareholders in that time, Anglian years and the continued good Weappointed Declan Collier, the Water provides excellent service to performance of the current portfolio, former CEO of London City Airport, its customers, ranking very highly in have increased the asset IRR for as a non-executive director.
OFWATs customer service metrics, the Company since IPO to 19% and has taken great strides in per annum.
At WIG, we continue to support reducing leakage to record low levels managements growth plans.
In and in improving its environmental September, WIG launched the UKs Portfolio review and health and safety performance.
first 5G-ready, fibre-connected, We have a large and diversified However, dividends had shrunk in outdoor small cell network in investment portfolio across sector, the current regulatory period and we Aberdeen, working in partnership geography and investment maturity.
did not see this improving, while the with Telefonica.
We are engaged investors and work intense political and media scrutiny closely with our management teams We refinanced debt facilities on the broader sector meant that to define their strategic direction and at ESVAGT and Oystercatcher, future returns were unlikely to meet business plans, implement efficient lengthening the maturity of the the Companys objectives.
Despite and prudent capital structures, facilities and providing a natural that backdrop, we were successful drive operational performance hedge for Singapore dollar in running a tight sale process which andsupport continued investment exposure in Oystercatcher.
Valorem produced attractive offers, and we intheir asset bases.
refinanced its operational portfolio secured for the Company what we with a long-term facility.
At Infinis, alongside the acquisition regard as an excellent outcome of Alkane Energy, we strengthened representing an annualised return The Investment Adviser continues the board, appointing Tony of 16%.
to work with the Companys Cocker former CEO of E. ON UK portfolio companies to assess new Our investment in Elenia was realised as Chairman and Scott Longhurst investment and capital expenditure at a truly exceptional annualised Group Finance Director at AWG as programmes, as well as value return of 31%.
Elenia is a great non-executive director and Chairman accretive acquisitions.
company, leading its sector in of the Audit Committee.
We have Finland and prioritising investment also provided a further 12 million in improving the reliability of of equity investment to fund the electricity supply to its customers by development of alternative uses burying cables underground where for surplus grid connection and they are much less susceptible to engine capacity.
In our six years of All of the 115 trains in the XLT fleet ownership, capital expenditure of have been manufactured, and over over 600 million helped reduce 100 of these have now completed power outages by over 10 hours per the testing and acceptance process.
We worked very closely The performance of the trains with the management team, our isahead of plan and remains on co-shareholders and advisers to apositive trajectory.
prepare detailed plans for the sale process, while keeping open the option for the Company to retain its stake if offers received were not compelling value.
14 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Investment Advisers review These new investments have As our new team in North America Investment activity added further diversification to the invests, we will work with the This year we have sustained the high Companys portfolio, which is now Board to evaluate the suitability level of new investment seen in the much better balanced by size of for the Company of broadening previous year, deploying a material investment, and has exposure to itsgeographic focus to include proportion of the proceeds from arange of countries, sectors and risk thatmarket.
the divestments of Elenia and AWG.
While exposure to regulatory We continue to target attractive We continue to see a good flow outcomes has been reduced, there risk-adjusted returns in mid-market of new investment opportunities, is now increased potential volatility economic infrastructure businesses but we remain disciplined to from market factors, including as well as greenfield projects.
invest selectively and focused commodity prices and GDP growth.
Where possible, we seek to secure on maintaining a balanced and Overall, we believe that the portfolio investments on a bilateral basis, attractive portfolio for shareholders.
is well-positioned to meet the developing a robust and aligned Companys return and dividend investment case with management About the Investment targets over the medium term.
and minimising the transaction costs Adviser for the Company.
Outlook 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, Total new investment commitments a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i The Company has delivered very in the year of 525 million were: Group plc 3i Group, acts as the strong returns during the year, driven investment adviser the Investment 190 million to increase our largely from the divestments of its Adviser to the Company.
ownership share in WIG, the two largest assets but underpinned independent communications by the continued performance of the The Investment Adviser has added infrastructure provider.
further to the team during the Company now owns 93%, year, which now comprises around We are continuing to see significant alongside management: 50 people covering origination, levels of competition for high quality 136 million into Infinis to fund execution, asset management and infrastructure businesses in the UK the acquisition of Alkane Energy, support functions.
The team is based and across Europe.
The demand for a business generating power in London and Paris and also draws large core infrastructure assets was from coal mine methane gas, and on 3i Groups broader network of demonstrated by the prices we were to support the development of offices.
The team provides advice to able to achieve for AWG and Elenia, alternative uses for spare engines the Company on the origination and and we see this persisting in the and grid connections: execution of new investments, on the medium term.
Our investment focus management of the portfolio and 176 million committed to acquire remains on areas of the infrastructure on realisations, as well as on funding 50% of Attero, a leading waste market which offer more attractive requirements.
processing business based in the risk-adjusted returns, in mid-market Netherlands: and economic infrastructure businesses and greenfield projects.
The new 23 million aggregate investment Phil White investments completed by the into ESVAGT and Oystercatcher Managing Partner, Infrastructure Company in the year demonstrate to support further growth of those 3i Investments plc our ability to continue to access businesses.
10 May 2018 attractive investments in our target markets, including through existing portfolio company platforms.
190m 1 1 5 6 investment to acquire trains manufactured new investments and the majority of WIG for the XLT fleet commitments during the year 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 15
