Investment Advisers review Investment activity Our investment activity in the year demonstrates execution of our strategy and business model.
New investment 125m Invested 100% Equity stake 3i Infrastructure increased its investment in Infinis to fund the acquisition of Alkane Energy Alkane.
Alkane is an independent power generator from bothCoal Mine Methane CMM and Reserve Power Peaking operations and is the largest generator ofelectricity from CMM in the UK.
The transaction completed in April 2018.
Investment rationale: Investment through an existing portfolio company, negotiated on a bilateral basis, which will create abusiness with significant scale and synergies Cash-generative business with potential for improving operational efficiencies by leveraging Infiniss best-in-class asset maintenance capabilities Diversified revenue mix between baseload andPeaking Development project pipeline to grow Peaking capacity and supplement the high near-term yield from CMM and landfill gas Asset intensive or long-term concessions Opportunities to enhance value Alkane is the largest generator of electricity The merger of Alkane with Infinis will create a fromcoal mine methane in the UK, business with significant scale, offer operational alongside Reserve Power operations that improvement opportunities and the potential to arecomplementary to Infiniss assets.
further elevate Alkanes generation performance and growth potential.
Essential services Target sectors Alkane performs a vital environmental service, Generation is in our Utilities sector.
extracting methane from abandoned coal mines that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere.
Acceptable element of market usage risk Geographical focus By using the CMM to generate electricity, Alkane is based in the UK.
Alkane supplies distribution networks with a reliable source of baseload power.
16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Investment Advisers review New investment commitment 201m Committed 50% Equity stake 3i Infrastructure committed to acquire a 50% stake in Attero alongside DWSs infrastructure fund.
Attero is one of the largest waste treatment and disposal companies in the Netherlands.
Investment rationale: Attractive opportunity in a new sector for the Company, with favourable long-term dynamics Attero operates two of the largest and best located waste treatment facilities in Western Europe, resulting in high efficiency and a low marginal cost The European Union requires member states to reduce landfill use, increasing the volume of waste requiring incineration Good revenue visibility from long-term waste supply contracts with municipalities, industrial customers, andwaste exporters Asset intensive or long-term concessions Opportunities to enhance value Attero owns two energy from waste EfW Attero is strongly positioned to benefit from plants, two sorting and pre-treatment facilities, favourable underlying trends in the European six anaerobic digestion facilities, seven waste market, driven by EU directives targeting composting facilities and 10 landfills.
Essential services Target sectors Attero processes waste from a diverse mix Waste management is in our Utilities sector.
of domestic municipalities, commercial and industrial customers, as well as a number of UK and Irish exporters.
Acceptable element of market usage risk Geographical focus Attero has good revenue visibility due to Headquartered in the Netherlands, with customers its long-term contracts with customers.
It is in a number of Northern European countries.
well positioned within the Dutch market with twoofthe largest and most efficient EfW plants inthe country, strategically positioned with good port, road and rail access for both import and domestic waste supply.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 17
