Governance and accounts Relations with shareholders Approach to Investor Relations Annual General Meeting The Board recognises the importance of maintaining The Company uses its AGM as an opportunity to a purposeful relationship with shareholders and the communicate with its shareholders.
At the meeting, Company has a comprehensive Investor Relations business presentations are generally made by the programme, devised and implemented by the Chairman and the Investment Adviser.
The Senior Investment Adviser, to help existing and potential Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and investors to understand its activities, strategy and Risk Committee are also generally available to answer financial performance.
The Chairman maintains a shareholders questions.
dialogue with shareholders on strategy and corporate governance as required and shareholders are offered Extraordinary General Meeting the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with The Company held an EGM on 14 March 2018 at the Senior Independent Director.
The Board receives which shareholders approved a share consolidation updates from the Chairman and the Investment Adviser of 15 new ordinary shares for 19 existing ordinary following shareholder meetings, as well as updates from shares, undertaken in conjunction with a special the Companys brokers on shareholder issues.
Directors dividend of 41.4 pence per existing ordinary share.
are invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts and have the opportunity to meet shareholders Capital Markets day at the AGM.
The Company held a Capital Markets day on 14 March 2018 for shareholders and analysts.
Presentations were Board oversight given by members of the investment advisory team and The Investment Adviser briefs the Board on a regular portfolio company management.
basis on the implementation of the Investor Relations programme and on feedback received from analysts and Annual and half-yearly results presentations investors.
Any significant concern raised by shareholders The Chairman and Investment Adviser present the annual in relation to the Company is communicated to the and half-yearly results to a broad group of analysts.
Research published by investment banks on the Company is circulated to the Board on a regular basis.
Individual investors The Company commissioned an investor perceptions Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the study by Rothschild to obtain feedback from Company and provide feedback through the Company shareholders.
This confirmed the favourable opinion Secretary, who can be contacted at 3i@linkgroup.
je shareholders have of the Companys strategy, financial orbytelephone on 44 0 1534 847 410. management and governance.
The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing shareholders and potential investors through the Companys corporate brokers and advisers: JPMorgan Cazenove, RBC Capital Markets and Scott Harris.
Institutional investor programme The Companys website provides a description of May July Nov its strategy and portfolio, The Investment Adviser meets The AGM is an opportunity for Following the release of the as well as a full archive of with existing and potential the Companys Directors and Companys half-year results, news and historical financial investors as required following members of the Investment the Investment Adviser information and details the release of the Companys Advisory team to meet holds meetings with existing of forthcoming events for annual results.
The Investment attending investors in person.
and potential investors in shareholders and analysts.
Adviser holds regular meetings the UK and internationally with existing and potential tocommunicate the strategy investors in the UK and and performance of the www.
com internationally to communicate Company.
the strategy and performance of the Company.
These meetings continue throughout the year, as required.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 67
