Review of investments However, a small part of its business Developments in the year Oystercatcher has been impacted by the marketThe five terminals all performed wide drop in fuel oil storage rates.
well operationally and financially during the year.
Each terminal enjoys In Amsterdam and Ghent, we have a strong position in its market and seen some softening of demand for benefits from Oiltankings reputation gasoil storage.
Gasoil storage is only Performance for excellent customer service levels.
a small part of the activities at the Cost 139.3m Capacity across the portfolio remains European terminals, with activities Closing value 181.3m substantially let.
being dominated by gasoline storage and blending, and also including jet The introduction of stricter standards Ownership fuel and chemicals storage.
45% for sulphur content in fuel oil used by ships from 2020 is impacting Follow-on investments Date invested parts of the storage sector.
It has August 2007 and June 2015 We have been progressing a number led to a deterioration in fuel oil of follow-on investment opportunities Management team HQ trading margins and reduced traders Various with the terminal companies.
appetite to store this product.
Country This has caused a sudden drop in On 2 May 2017, Oiltanking Ghent Netherlands, Belgium, Malta market-wide fuel oil storage rates acquired 100% of Belgotank NV, and Singapore and has resulted in some storage a company which owns 82,000 Currency capacity that was being used for fuel cubic metres of tank capacity EUR oil to become available in the market.
located on the Oiltanking Ghent At the same time many product site.
These provide a mix of small Sector Transportation Logistics markets are in backwardation, with tanks which are complementary forward prices below current levels.
to the businesss existing tank portfolio.
On25 September 2017, In Singapore, the terminal is Oystercatcher made a follow-on aleading gasoline storage and equity investment of2.4 million blending facility.
Continuing strong into Oiltanking Ghent to part fund growth in demand for gasoline that acquisition.
in the wider region underpins the positive outlook for the terminal For further information about inthe long term.
our investments, see our website www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 29 Review of investments Outside Europe, TCR strengthened Developments in the year its presence in Malaysia through TCR performed well during the year.
additional contract wins with Contract renewal levels in its core Malaysian Airlines.
In Australia, European markets remain very high, it acquired Emerge Engineering demonstrating the defensive nature & Maintenance, the leading local of the cash flows and TCRs strong repair and maintenance business Performance position in a growing market.
with workshops at six major airports Cost 150.9m In the year, TCR continued to expand and it is now competing for new Closing value 179.5m its footprint in Europe, winning leasing contracts.
new contracts in several countries Ownership To further aid TCRs strategic 46% and adding new customers and planning and to bring greater asset classes to its offering.
It has Date invested understanding of airports and airlines started operating the first passenger July 2016 to the board, Declan Collier, the equipment pooling system in the Management team HQ former CEO of London City Airport, UK at Luton Airport and is preferred Brussels, Belgium was appointed as a non-executive bidder for another pooling contract director.
Active in 11 European countries, Malaysia and Australia For further information about our investments, see our website Currency www.
com EUR Sector Transportation Logistics 30 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Review of investments The performance of the delivered Developments in the year trains continues to improve The XLT programme aims to deliver and remains above the target 115 class 700 trains by the second performance curve.
half of 2018 to operate across the Thameslink network.
Given the advanced stage of the delivery programme, the discount As at the end of the period, all 115 Performance rate used to value this investment trains had been manufactured by Cost 62.7m was reduced at the end of the year.
Siemens and 103 trains had been Closing value 166.3m accepted by the GTR rail franchise.
For further information about Full acceptance of the remaining Ownership our investments, see our website units is expected by Summer 2018.
com Date invested June 2013 Management team HQ London, UK Country UK Currency GBP Sector Transportation Logistics 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 31
