Investment Advisers review Investment advisory team Profiles of senior members Phil White James Dawes Managing Partner CFO Phil joined 3i in 2007 and is Managing Partner and James is Chief Financial Officer of 3is Infrastructure Head of 3is Infrastructure business and a member business and joined in January 2016. of 3is Executive Committee, Investment Committee He manages the operational, financial and reporting and Group Risk Committee.
requirements for the Infrastructure business within 3i Group, aswell as performing CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Division Director in Macquaries Infrastructure Funds business, where he managed investments Prior to joining 3i, James was with Legal & General Investment in the transport sector.
Management, where he held a number of senior finance roles, including Finance Director of LGV Capital from 2007 to 2015.
Phil has over 20 years of infrastructure investment, advisory and finance experience from earlier roles at Barclays and WestLB.
Phil is a director of Wireless Infrastructure Group.
John Cavill Stphane Partner Grandguillaume Partner John is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in Stphane is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team London and joined 3i in November 2013. inParis and joined 3i in November 2013.
John leads the portfolio management activity for the projects Stphane leads 3is infrastructure business in France and portfolio and is responsible for: setting the strategy for asset is responsible for origination and execution of investment management activities: overseeing implementation of value opportunities in projects across Europe.
Stphane joined 3i protection and enhancement activities: and overseeing from BIFM where he was a director and prior to this was head performance reporting.
He works closely with investee company non-executive Stphane led the investment in Valorem and sits on the Board.
directors and Infrastructure Managers Limited, the businesss main SPV management services provider.
Previously, John was a director at Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management Limited BIFM, St Modwen Properties plc, Land Securities Trillium and Vinci Investments, where he led PPP PFI bidding activity.
John holds board positions at Cross London Trains and Wireless Infrastructure Group.
18 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Investment Advisers review Nigel Middleton Scott Moseley Partner Partner Nigel is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in Scott joined 3i in 2007 and is a Partner in the London and joined 3i in November 2013.
Infrastructure team, and with Bernardo leads the teams new investment origination and execution Nigel is involved in investment appraisal and management of platform.
investments in infrastructure projects in various funds managed by 3i.
In the early 2000s he led the formation and management He has 15 years experience in European infrastructure, of Infrastructure Investors I2, a pioneering secondary market spanningutilities, transportation and social infrastructure.
infrastructure fund established as a joint venture between Scott led the investments in Elenia, Cross London Trains Barclays, Socit Gnrale and 3i Group.
He established, and and ESVAGT, as well as being a senior deal team member continues to manage BIIF, a long-term buy and hold PPP fund on Eversholt.
He led the successful divestment of Elenia.
Hewas also responsible for the successfully exited junior debt Previously, Nigel was a Managing Partner at BIFM and prior investments in Arqiva, Associated British Ports, Tldiffusion tothat, head of PFI PPP Advisory Services at PwC and worked deFrance, Thames Water and Viridian.
He is currently a director on the boards of ESVAGT and CrossLondon Trains.
Bernardo Sottomayor Partner Bernardo is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team inLondon and joined 3i in October 2015, and with Scott leads the teams new investment origination and execution platform.
He was a senior deal team member on the recent investments by 3i Infrastructure in TCR, Infinis, Attero and Alkane Energy.
Bernardo was most recently a Partner at Antin Infrastructure, which manages funds investing in infrastructure opportunities across Europe.
Prior to Antin, Bernardo was Managing Director, Head ofAcquisitions for Deutsche Banks European infrastructure fund.
His prior experience was in utilities, as Head of M&A at Energias fide Portugal, and in infrastructure advisory with UBS andCitigroup.
Bernardo holds a board position at TCR.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 19
