888. com Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual Report a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December issue of equity securities to or in favour of: i Ordinary Shareholders 2018.
The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 08, 50 and 59 of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may respectively, form part of this Directors' Report.
be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: and ii holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities, or if the Directors consider it necessary, Results as permitted by the rights of those securities: so that the Directors The Group's profit after tax for the financial year of US$94.8 million may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider 2017: US$12.6 million is reported in the consolidated income statement expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, on page 90.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0 per record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal share plus an additional one-off 2.0 per share, which together with the or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the interim dividend of 4.2 per share equals 12.2 per share for the year requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange 2017: 15.5 per share.
or any other matter: b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs Directors and their interests a above and c below of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 89,929.31: and Biographical details of the current Board of Directors, setting out their relevant skills and experience and their professional commitments, are c to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a shown on pages 42 and 43.
The Directors who served during the year and b above of equity securities in connection with an acquisition are shown below.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and or specified capital investment up to an aggregate nominal value of as required by the Companys Memorandum & Articles of Association 89,929.31: Articles, all Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting and those who wish to continue to serve offer themselves for re-election.
and shall expire upon the earlier of: i the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after passing the resolution, save Brian Mattingley first appointed 30 August 2005 that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Itai Frieberger first appointed 13 May 2015, stepped down expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an 23 January 2019 offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: Itai Pazner first appointed 8 March 2019 and ii 30 June 2019.
"Aviad Kobrine first appointed 30 August 2005 In paragraph c ""specified capital investment"" means one or more specific capital investments in respect of which sufficient information Ron McMillan first appointed 15 May 2014 regarding the effect of the transaction on the Company, the assets the subject of the transaction and where appropriate the profits Zvika Zivlin first appointed 9 May 2017 attributable to those assets is made available to shareholders to enable Anne fide Kerckhove first appointed them to reach an assessment of the potential return."
28 November 2017 In 2018, the Company did not exercise any of the foregoing powers and authorities.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and their closely associated persons pursuant to Article 19 of the European Market Abuse Regulation in shares of the Company are set out in the Share Buy Back Authority Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 76.
There has been The Directors do not have any power in relation to the buy back by no change in the interests of Directors in shares of the Company the Company of its own Ordinary Shares.
In 2018, the Company did between 31 December 2018 and the date of this Report.
not seek authority to and did not purchase any of its own Ordinary Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in the Shares.
The Directors intend to propose a resolution to seek authority shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement with to purchase the Companys own Ordinary Shares at the 2019 Annual the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Rights attaching to Ordinary Shares Share capital Changes in share capital of the Company during the financial year in the Company are given in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
As at The rights and obligations attaching to Ordinary Shares are set out 31 December 2018, the issued share capital of the Company comprised in the Articles.
364,284,539 Ordinary Shares of GBP 0.005 each Ordinary Shares.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak at general At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2018, the Board was meetings, to appoint one or more proxies and to exercise voting empowered to allot securities of a value up to 66.66% of the Company's rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend and on ordinary share capital in issue as at 31 March 2018, provided that, in liquidation may share in the Companys assets.
Holders of Ordinary accordance with institutional guidelines issued by the Investment Shares are entitled to receive the Annual Report.
Subject to meeting Association, this would permit up to a maximum nominal value of certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition a general 1,198,937.59 66.66% to be allotted pursuant to a rights issue and up meeting or the proposal of resolutions at general meetings.
to a maximum nominal value of 599,468.79 33.33% to be allotted otherwise.
Furthermore, the Board was empowered to allot equity securities of the Company for cash without application of pre-emptive rights under the Articles, provided that such power is limited: 44 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance Many jurisdictions require any person who acquires beneficial Memorandum & Articles of Association ownership of more than a certain percentage typically 5% of The Articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a general the Company's securities, to report the acquisition to the gaming meeting of shareholders.
There were no changes to the Articles authorities and apply for a finding of suitability.
Many gaming during 2018. authorities allow an institutional investor to apply for a waiver that allows such institutional investor to acquire up to a certain percentage of securities without applying for a finding of suitability, Deadlines for exercising voting rights at the subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions.
In some jurisdictions, 2019 Annual General Meeting suitability investigations may require extensive personal and financial Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions disclosure.
The failure of any such individuals or entities to submit to must be received by the Company's registrars not later than 9.00am such background checks and provide the required disclosure could CET 8.00am GMT on 17 May 2019.
Forms of Direction from persons jeopardise the Group's eligibility for a required licence or approval.
holding depository interests in the Company in uncertificated form Any person who is found unsuitable by a relevant gaming authority through CREST must be received by the Company's registrars not later may be prohibited by applicable gaming laws or regulations from than 9.00am CET 8.00am GMT on 16 May 2019. holding, directly or indirectly, the beneficial ownership of any of the Company's securities.
Restrictions on transfer of shares and The Articles include provisions to ensure that 888 has the required limitations on holdings powers to continue to comply with applicable gaming regulations.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding These provisions include providing the Company, in the event of Ordinary Shares other than under restrictions imposed by law of a Shareholder Regulatory Event as defined in the Articles, or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the with the right to: Company's share dealing code.
a suspend certain rights of its members who do not comply with the provisions of the gaming regulations the Affected Members : Requirements of gaming regulations Amongst others, the Group: b require such Affected Members to dispose of their Ordinary Shares: and i holds a licence from the Nevada Gaming Commission as the sole shareholder of an Interactive Gaming Service Provider licensee, c subject to b above, dispose of the Ordinary Shares of such and as such is subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and to Affected Members.
the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada State Gaming The Company considers that these rights are required in order Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission: to mitigate the risk that an interest in Ordinary Shares held by a ii holds a transactional waiver from the New Jersey Division of particular person could lead to action being taken by a relevant Gaming Enforcement permitting it to be the sole shareholder of Regulatory Authority as defined in the Articles which in turn could a Casino Service Industry Enterprise licence applicant presently lead to the withdrawal of existing licences held by the Group or the holder of a transactional waiver allowing it to conduct online exclusion of being awarded further licences in other jurisdictions that gaming related business in New Jersey, and as such is subject the Group seeks to pursue.
This potential Regulatory Authority action to the New Jersey Casino Control Act and to the licensing could therefore cause substantial damage to the Group's business and regulatory control of the New Jersey Division of Gaming or prospects.
Enforcement: and iii holds a Gaming Vendor Licence from the Delaware Department of Entities holding Company shares on behalf Finance, State Lottery Office, and as such is subject to Title 29 of of Group employees the Delaware Code and to the licensing and regulatory control of At 31 December 2018, Virtual Share Services Limited a wholly owned the Delaware Department of Finance, State Lottery Office.
subsidiary of the Company held 3,694,587 Ordinary Shares in its The Company and holders of Ordinary Shares therein may also in the administrative capacity in connection with the 888 Holdings plc Longfuture be subject to similar restrictions in other jurisdictions where the Term Incentive Plan 2015 and Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Full details Group secures a gaming licence.
The criteria used by relevant regulatory authorities to make determinations as to suitability of an applicant for licensure varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require the submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation.
Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant corporate or individual qualifies for licensing or should be found suitable.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45 Corporate.
888. com Directors Report Continued Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified of the following interests in 5% or more of its share capital under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR Rule 5 of the UK Financial Conduct Authority: Number % issued Nature Principal Shareholders of shares share capital of Holding Sinitus Nominees Limited in trust on behalf of Dalia Shaked 86,283,534 23.69% Indirect Standard Life Aberdeen plc 35,892,391 9.85% Indirect The Phoenix Holdings Ltd. 19,006,183 5.22% Indirect Between 31 December 2018 and the date of this Annual Report, no further notifications were received regarding holdings comprising 5.0% of the Companys issued share capital.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is publicly available via the regulatory information services and the Companys corporate website corporate.
Shareholder agreements and consent requirements There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Relationship Agreement The Company is a party to a relationship agreement with, among others, Sinitus Nominees Limited as trustee for Dalia Shaked DS Trust dated 14 September 2005 which was amended on 16 July 2015 the Amended Relationship Agreement.
The O Shaked Shares Trust and the Ben Yitzhak Family Shares Trust together with Dalia Shaked Bare Trust, the Principal Shareholder Trusts are also party to the Amended Relationship Agreement but are no longer bound by certain material provisions since they are no longer shareholders of the Company.
The Amended Relationship Agreement includes the following provisions in respect of the independence of the Company in accordance with the UK Listing Rules which provide that DS Trust shall, and shall procure as far as it is legally able, that its respective associates: conduct all transactions and relationships with 888 Holdings plc and any member of the Group on an arms length basis and on a normal commercial basis: not take any action which precludes or inhibits 888 Holdings plc, or any member of the Group, from carrying on its business independently of it: not take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company, or any member of the Group, from complying with its obligations under the UK Listing Rules: and not propose or procure the proposal of any shareholder resolution which is intended, or appears to be intended, to circumvent any proper application of the UK Listing Rules.
It further provides that the DS Trust will not solicit Group employees without consent, that only independent directors can vote on proposals to further amend the Amended Relationship Agreement, that the DS Trust will consult the Company prior to disposing of a significant number of shares in order to maintain an orderly market and shall not disclose confidential information unless required to do so by law or relevant regulation or having first received the Company's consent.
The Amended Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on the DS Trusts power to appoint Directors and includes obligations on the DS Trust to exercise its voting rights to ensure that the majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The DS Trust can nominate a non-executive director for appointment to the Board.
In the event that this right is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being Independent Directors, such appointment shall only become effective upon the appointment to the Board of an additional Independent Director acceptable to the Nominations Committee.
There are no such nominated directors at present.
Such restrictions and obligations apply in respect of the DS Trust whilst it holds not less than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The obligations of the parties to the Amended Relationship Agreement are at all times subject to all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and obligations of the parties thereto in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or elsewhere.
46 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance Confirmation of independence Directors indemnities As required pursuant to LR 9.8.
4 R 14, the Board confirms for The Articles permit the Company to indemnify its Directors in certain that period of financial year 2018 during which the Company had circumstances, as well as to provide insurance for the benefit of its a controlling shareholder: Directors.
The Company has undertaken to indemnify certain of its Non-Executive Directors: a in defending any proceedings, whether the Company has complied with the independence provisions civil or criminal, in which judgment is given in favour of such Nonincluded in the Amended Relationship Agreement: Executive Director or in which such Non-Executive Director is acquitted: or b in connection with any application under Section 477 of the so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions Gibraltar Companies Act pursuant to which the court may provide included in the Amended Relationship Agreement have been relief to such Non-Executive Director in any proceedings for negligence, complied with by the controlling shareholders and their associates: default, breach of duty or breach of trust on grounds that such Nonand Executive Director has acted honestly and reasonably, and that, having so far as the Company is aware, none of the Principal Shareholder regard to all circumstances of the case, including those connected with Trusts or any of their respective associates proposed or procured his appointment, he ought fairly to be excused from liability on such the proposal of any shareholder resolution which circumvented the terms as the court thinks fit.
The Company also undertook in favour proper application of the UK Listing Rules.
of the Executive Directors to indemnify them to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and the Articles in connection with the There were no instances in which an independent director of the execution of their duties and or exercise of their powers, authorities Company did not support the Board's statements regarding compliance and discretions pursuant to his employment agreement.
In addition, with the aforementioned independence criteria.
certain special indemnities were provided to the Executive Directors in connection with the compliance and licensing procedures relating to As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has no controlling 888s business in the United States, details of which were provided in shareholder as defined under the UK Listing Rules.
888s Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Finally, the Company entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements Shareholders Agreements for the benefit of all of its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Gibraltar There are no known Shareholders Agreements in force between Companies Act 2014 which were in force from 1 November 2017 or shareholders of the Company.
subsequently, with respect to subsequently appointed directors and remain in force.
Change of control A change of control in the Company may, in the event of failure to Corporate governance fulfil any applicable consent requirement, give rise to certain revocation The corporate governance statement is on pages 50 to 57 and is or termination rights under the Group's gaming licences or certain incorporated in this Directors' Report by reference.
contracts to which Group companies are a party.
The RCF between the Company and Barclays Bank plc provides that in the event of a change of control in the Company, the parties have 30 days to Going concern and viability statements negotiate acceptable terms to continue the facility, failing which it The going concern and viability statements required to be included in will be cancelled and all outstanding amounts thereunder will be the annual report pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code are immediately payable.
on page 36, and are incorporated in this Directors' Report by reference.
Donations Principal subsidiary undertakings The Group did not make any donations to any political party including The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 120. any non-EU political party or organisation or independent election candidate or incurred any political expenditure during the year.
Financial instruments The Company considers the Groups exposure to financial risks, including exposure to specific countries and trading counterparties, to be low.
During 2018, hedging of the Groups foreign currency risks was carried out solely with leading banks including Barclays plc.
Further information on the Groups use of financial instruments is set out in note 25 to the annual accounts on page 124.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47 Corporate.
888. com Directors Report Continued Research and development activities Post-period events In 2018, the Group maintained its focus on enhancing the products The following important events affecting the Group occurred since offered, expanding its platform which is accessible on mobile devices 31 December 2018: and further developing its gaming platform capabilities.
"In February 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of a portfolio Some relevant achievements during the year in the field of research and of bingo brands, including Costa Bingo, as detailed on page 19 development included: In March 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of the BetBright Implementation of a cross-Group project to ensure the Groups sports betting platform, as detailed on page 18 compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation In February 2019, 888 signed an RCF with Barclays Bank plc, ""GDPR"" as detailed on page 23."
Development of new front end for our Sport in Casino offering Future developments Major investment in compliance management and monitoring Likely future developments in the business of the Group are set out in Increased foothold in regulated markets: Portugal Casino and the Market Overview on page 06.
Sweden Sport, Casino and Poker The opening of the US market for 888sport NJ betting, which gave Auditors 888 the opportunity to be amongst the first companies to operate in A resolution for the reappointment of Ernst and Young LLP and EY this market Limited, Gibraltar, together, EY, as auditors of the Company will be Launch of a new and advanced platform for 888casino Orbit in proposed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
regulated markets, including full integration with registration and During the year ended 31 December 2018, Ernst and Young LLP were cashier, new smart search, fully responsive, personalised experience, reappointed as auditors for the purposes of the Company preparing improve user flow and interface financial statements as required pursuant to the UK Listing Rules and Improvement of real time abilities improving player experience the DTRs.
EY Limited, Gibraltar, which is approved as a registered of campaigns auditor under the Gibraltar Financial Services Auditors Act 2009, is the statutory auditor of the Company including for the purposes of Integration to new Casino game providers Pariplay, Evolution, NyX issuing an audit report pursuant to the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Major infusion of new 3rd party games to 888casino on PC and Details of audit and non-audit fees charged by EY to the Company are mobile platforms.
set out on page 77 of the Audit Committee Report.
127 unique games added to Casino platform, including 10 new Section8 games, of which 3 entered the top 15 games Directors statement of responsibilities Introduced a new and exciting feature that allows Sport players to Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements race against each other when betting on their favourite leagues in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
A new user interface for Poker DL table.
Exciting user experience that International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements will create additional level of engagements on top of the common present fairly for each financial year the Companys and the Groups poker engagement and provide to our players experience that no financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
"This requires other poker room has provided the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition First step into the realm of AI on 888casino a new game criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the recommendation model with a personal list of top picks which International Accounting Standards Board's ""Framework for the suggests games to players according to a smart algorithm preparation and presentation of financial statements""."
In virtually all More payment capabilities in our Bingo offering, new and unique circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with bonuses, and more games: and all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: A new tournament format Progressive Knockout, released in order to encourage Poker ecosystem growth.
consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Greenhouse gas emissions that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Details of 888s greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 38. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU is insufficient to enable members to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
48 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors' report which complies with the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Financial statements are published on the Company's website in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company's website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
All of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Company's auditors for the purposes of their audit, and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
On behalf of the Board: Itai Pazner Chief Executive Officer 12 March 2019 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49
