C Corpor orpora at te e. 888.. 888. c com om Our Marketplace A GROWING The online gambling industry continues to experience significant growth and be shaped by two key forces: developments in technology and regulatory changes.
Many jurisdictions are adopting new regulatory frameworks that are specific to online gaming.
This can increase the costs of operation but helps to provide a safer environment for customers and creates an environment in which operators with scale and technological advantages, such as 888, are able to prosper.
$50.8BN 2018 global online 2023 estimated global gamblingmarket onlinegambling market 41.3% from mobile 53.0% estimated from mobile Source: H2 Gambling, February 2019.
2 2 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 S Str tra at tegic R egic Report eport 2018 estimated market size by product 2023 estimated market size by product CAGR US$ US$ % SPORT 25.6bn 35.1bn 6.5 5.2 CASINO 13.5bn 17.4bn 2.7bn 1.3 POKER 2.9bn 1.9bn 3.7 BINGO 3.4bn TOTAL 50.8bn 6.7 70.3bn GAMBLING Source: H2 Gambling, February 2019.
Safe and secure 888s primary goal is to ensure that all those who visit our entertainment sites can do so with confidence and that those for whom Conducting business responsibly, our games are not intended, notably underage individuals and putting our customers first, and those vulnerable to addiction, will not be drawn into Protecting is fundamental to the future the gaming environment.
In addition, we aim to quickly success of 888.
We understand that identify those few customers who might develop a a responsible approach is both the the vulnerable gambling problem and ensure that they helped by our correct way to do business and one trained teams.
We are constantly developing new and that enhances credibility with all innovative ways to deliver a safe gaming environment.
888 is committed to providing its players with a fair and enjoyable gaming experience.
Our brands are well established and trusted by customers we strongly oppose Fair play foul play in any form.
We leverage our technology and analytics capabilities to ensure that our customers enjoy the fairest and most enjoyable experience possible.
888 takes comprehensive steps to minimise fraud, including customer checks, and implement effective anti-money laundering policies.
The Group has developed leading fraud detection mechanisms which allow the business to react in real time to any potential Anti-crime or evolving fraud patterns.
We regularly request supporting documentation from customers to verify their source of funds to ensure that the deposits our customers make are legitimate.
888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 3 3 e u l a v r e y a l p g n i s a e I r n c c n r I e a s i n g f i r s t Corporate.
888. com 888s Business Model VALUE Our growth strategy Business activities 888s growth strategy is based on five key pillars: Development of coreB2C brands Driving margin growth through operational efficiencies Enhancing efficiencies Safe and secure B2B partner of choice entertainment through Dragonfish Continue to protect our customers and act responsibly Our purpose Key drivers How we create value B2C Customer wins Customer Interaction Customer loses B2B Branded Agreed share Partners of net revenue 4 4 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 t i m n e o i d t i e s p i u o q s c i t a o r r e s y a l p r e p t s o c e h t g n i c u d e R Strategic Report Influencing factors 1.
Continuously developing our proprietary technology-edge 888s online gaming platforms underpin the Groups ability to entertain and protect customers, operate efficiently and adapt to new regulations.
The Group is constantly evolving and developing its proprietary platforms and industry leading back office systems to maintain its competitive advantages.
Safe gambling 888s upmost priority is the safety of its customers.
The Groups in-house monitoring tool, Observer, was developed by 888s responsible gaming and research department.
It was first launched in 2008 and since then has been continuously fine-tuned and developed to become the sophisticated and effective tool it is today.
Observer employs information from our customer database and measures changes in gaming behaviour, such as unexpected increases in time or money spent on the site.
Over the last 10 years, we have more than tripled the number of factors used to detect potentially problematic behaviour.
Maintaining our strong and trusted brand A strong brand is a key advantage in what is a competitive global online gaming market.
888s consistently innovative and engaging brand is amongst the most trusted and recognised in the industry.
Product development and a seamless customer experience Product innovation is central to 888s progress with the Group continually investing in developing its products across verticals and both mobile and desktop platforms.
This includes adding new games, increased personalisation and new features that continue to support in differentiating the 888 experience in our customers eyes.
5. Business analytics 888s teams from product development to marketing to customer support draw on 888s extensive and constantly evolving data set and analysis capabilities to drive 888s continued success.
Marketing and CRM recycles Marketing plays a critical role to 888s business.
Drawing on the Groups analyticswinnings driven insights and expertise, 888 is relentlessly focused on developing its marketing techniques and channels, both online and offline, that adhere to strict return-on-investment criteria and are always directed within the Groups responsible gambling policies.
In addition, once a customer joins 888, underpinned by sophisticated data insights, statistical models and customer understanding, 888 interacts with its customers on a more personalised basis.
Excellent customer support First-class customer support is offered through telephone, email and online chat functions to customers around the world in nine different languages.
Payment processing winnings 888s leading proprietary payment supports more than 35 payment methods in 18 languages, both for desktop and on mobile tablet devices.
B2B partnerships Through its Dragonfish B2B division, the Group offers gaming partners a comprehensive end-to-end solution, encompassing technology, operations and advanced marketing tools, as well as online best practice.
The Dragonfish team is uniquely placed to support its partners and deliver a cutting-edge online proposition.
Contribution to Group revenue 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 5 5
