888. com Board Of Directors MANAGEMENT 1 Brian Mattingley 2 Itai Frieberger Chairman Chief Executive Officer Age: 67 until January 2019 Age: 48 Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Brian Mattingley was Deputy Chairman of the Company and Senior Independent Itai Frieberger was appointed Chief Non-Executive Director from March Executive Officer of the Company on 2006 until March 2012, and was then 2 March 2016.
He was previously Chief Chief Executive Officer until March 2016.
Operating Officer since April 2011, He joined the Board in August 2005.
He and was appointed to the Board as was previously Chief Executive of Gala an Executive Director on 13 May 2015.
Regional Developments Limited until He also served as Managing Director 2005.
From 1997 to 2003 he was Group of the Companys Israeli subsidiary, Finance and Strategy Director of Gala Random Logic Ltd.
He has worked for Group Plc, prior to which he was Chief the Group since 2003, and previously Executive of Ritz Bingo Limited.
He has served as Senior Vice President of held senior executive positions with Product Technologies, as well as leading Kingfisher Plc and Dee Corporation Plc.
various parts of the business such as marketing, product and business In his capacity as Chairman of the UK development.
Prior to joining the Group, Bingo Association, Mr. Mattingley spent he held several management positions a great deal of time with regulators, at Orange, one of the worlds leading which has assisted in the Board's telecommunications operators.
understanding of UK gaming regulation and laws.
Mr Mattingley has been in the Mr. Frieberger stood down from his role gaming industry since 1993, and launched as the Groups Chief Executive Officer one of the UKs first online Bingo sites in January 2019, and in order to ensure whilst at Gala.
a smooth transition will remain as a Director for a period of up to 12 months.
Read more from Brian on pages 06 and 07 3 Itai Pazner 4 Aviad Kobrine Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer from January 2019 Age: 55 Age: 46 Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial Mr. Pazner was appointed as COO in Officer of the Company since June November 2017 and as Chief Executive 2005, and was appointed to the Board Officer of the Company in January 2019. in August 2005.
From October 2004 He was appointed to the board in he was a consultant to the Company.
Previously, he was a banker with the Media Telecoms Investment Banking He has worked for the Group since Group of Lehman Brothers and prior 2001, initially launching the 888. com to that, he was a senior associate with brand in the UK and positioning Slaughter and May.
He holds a Masters 888. com as a top 3 UK online gaming in Finance from the London Business operator.
Other roles included Global School Distinction, a BA in Economics Offline Marketing Director, Senior Vice and an LLB from Tel Aviv University.
President Head of EMEA, Senior Vice President of B2C Casino and Senior Mr. Kobrine brings with him extensive Vice President Head of B2C.
finance, economic and analytical experience, in-depth knowledge of Prior to joining the Group, Mr. Pazner the Group and detailed knowledge held managerial positions at Internet of the Citys workings.
Read more from Aviad on pages 16 and 23 Read more from Itai on pages 08 and 15 42 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 5 Ron McMillan 6 Zvika Zivlin Senior IndependentDirector Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 66 Age: 53 Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Ron McMillan was the Zvika Zivlin is the Founder and Managing  Global Finance Partner of Tulip Capital, the exclusive Partner, Northern Regional Chairman partner firm of Wells Fargo Securities in of the UK firm and Deputy Chairman Israel, is a strategic partner to Alias Tech and Head of Assurance for the Middle JB Capital, and currently serves on the East firm, in addition to serving as audit advisory board of Infinidat Ltd. engagement leader on a number of Mr. Zivlin has been engaged in projects major listed companies.
He is the Senior covering the fields of insurance, Independent Director and Chairman of the banking, real estate, technology and Audit Committee of N Brown Group Plc, communications, and was previously SCS Plc and B&M European Value Retail SA, Chief Executive Officer of Trans4u Ltd and Chairman of the Audit Committee of and Chief Financial Officer of GSI Group.
Mr McMillan is the Chairman Mr. Zivlin holds an MSc in Economics of the Companys Audit Committee and a from the London School of Economics, member of the Remuneration Committee, an MBA from Tel Aviv University 1st Nominations Committee and Gaming year, with distinction and a BA in Compliance Committee.
Economics and Management from Tel Having worked in PwC's assurance business Aviv University with distinction.
Mr for 38 years, Mr. McMillan brings to the Zivlin is the Chairman of the Companys Board a deep understanding of auditing, Remuneration Committee and a member financial reporting regulatory matters and of the Audit Committee.
A R Ron McMillan was appointed as NonExecutive Director on 15 May 2014, and Read more from Zvika on pages 60 and 76 Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2016.
R N G A Read more from Ron on pages 77 Committee Key 7 Anne fide Kerckhove Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 46 A Relevant skills andexperience Chairman Audit Committee of Committee Anne fide Kerckhove is currently the CEO of Freespee - a fast growing company R in the communication cloud space.
Remuneration Previously, she was the CEO of Iron Committee Member Capital and the Managing Director EMEA of Committee for Videology, Global Director of Reed Elsevier, and COO and International N Managing Director at Inspired Gaming Nominations Group.
Ms. fide Kerckhove is also an angel Committee investor and mentor for early-stage startups and entrepreneurial funds G including Metail, CRE and Daphni, and Gaming Compliance holds board positions with 7digital.
She holds a Bachelor of Commerce from Committee McGill University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Ms. fide Kerckhove is a member of the Companys Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
R N A 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43
