888. com The Online Gaming Cycle DRIVEN APPROACH Gaming cycle 888s highly-skilled team and its internally generated know-how remain major drivers 6.
Marketing of the Companys revenue value.
888 carefully manages and sustains these resources and details of key actions taken in 2018 are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 38 to 41.
Acquisition 888 employs an extensive team of highly trained and experienced Return to business analytics and data-mining professionals.
Teams across 888 cost driven including product development, marketing and customer support leverage this extensive and constantly evolving data and, by applying robust statistical models and subject always to our safe and responsible gaming policies, influence the following factors in the online gaming cycle: 4.
Deposits 10 10 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 Strategic Report 1.
"Customer relationship management ""CRM"" Central to the Groups approach to growth is an unwavering focus on return-to-cost driven marketing."
Once 888 has acquired a customer, our goal is to make The Group continually evolves and develops new sure that they have a great, safe experience with 888. marketing techniques and campaigns, both online Subject always to our safe and responsible gaming and offline, to increase awareness of its brands and policies, tools used to achieve this include personalised create customer loyalty.
The returns to cost ratios of all communications and the promotion of relevant offers marketing campaigns are rigorously tested against strict and bonuses.
criteria before being extended to their target markets.
Activity This helps to ensure that 888s marketing spend remains cost-efficient.
Whilst subject always to our safe and responsible gaming policies, offering a high-quality product helps 2.
Acquisition to increase customer activity and, consequently, lifeEffective marketing helps to attract customers to 888s time value with 888.
888s ability to successfully create brands.
Strong levels of customer acquisition, measured proprietary games, enhance personalisation, offer great by increases in first time depositors, is the fuel for 888s odds, and develop new functionality on mobile and future growth.
desktop platforms helps to differentiate 888 from its competitors.
Gaming revenue Customers need to be able to enjoy a seamless journey from the moment they visit the Groups websites through Player activity leads to revenue for the Group.
This then to making deposits and then enjoying 888s games.
888s enables our marketing teams to invest in campaigns to proprietary payment processing capabilities support a acquire more new customers.
wide variety of languages, methods and currencies and it is vital that the Group is able to offer efficient and easy to use payment processing.
888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 11 11 Corporate.
888. com 888's B2C Proposition OFFERING Product Our offer How we generate revenue 888casino is one of the longest standing online casino Online casinos replicate the real-life casino experience Casino brands in the market.
with players playing against the house across online versions of classic casino table games such as roulette Through continuous product development, 888casino and blackjack as well as video slot and video poker aims to provide the most enjoyable online experience games.
In these games, the house has a statistical available.
888casino combines exclusive in-house advantage or edge.
developed games alongside branded video slots and live Casino games, which offer high-quality video streamed Casino gaming revenue is represented by the difference casino games with a range of professional dealers.
between the amounts of bets placed by customers less amounts won adjusted for bonuses granted to customers.
888sport is a fast-growing sports betting destination.
Sportsbook online gaming revenue comprises bets Sport At the heart of the 888sport brand is genuine passion placed less amounts won adjusted for the fair value for sport, with thousands of live and pre-event betting of open betting positions.
markets on offer, from the obvious to the obscure.
888poker offers a first-class poker environment that In online poker, the operator acts as the virtual host Poker enables players of all abilities to enjoy the games of for the game and provides a platform that enables their choice.
customers to play various forms of poker against each other.
888poker offers Texas Holdem, Omaha HiLo, 7 Card Stud and other poker variations in Pot Limit, Fixed Limit Poker revenue represents the commission or rake and No Limit and Blast formats.
charged from each poker hand in ring games, and entry fees for participation in poker tournaments less the fair value of certain promotional bonuses.
888s leading bingo brands have engaging themes, As with traditional bingo halls, online bingo rooms offer Bingo a variety of games and a strong sense of community, customers the chance of winning prizes by purchasing replicating the experience of traditional bingo halls.
tickets and playing their bingo format of choice.
The Groups bingo brands also benefit from an extensive Bingo online gaming revenue is represented by the rd range of 888-developed and 3 parties slot games difference between the amounts of tickets purchased and scratch cards that are offered alongside traditional by customers less amounts won, less the fair value of bingo formats.
888s portfolio of brands includes 888 Ladies, Wink Bingo and Wink Slots.
12 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
