888. com STATEMENT The Directors have re-examined the time-frame for the viability analysis of 888 pursuant to a two-stage process.
The Directors have first considered the prospects of the Company taking into account its current position and principal risks.
Second, they have considered whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
In this light, the Directors note that the With respect to the period assessed, Furthermore, after careful review of the Company operates in the online gaming the Directors have considered: Groups budget for 2019, its medium-term sector, which has matured substantially plans, liquid resources and all relevant 888s resilience to threats to its viability since the early days of the internet and is matters, the Directors are confident in severe but plausible scenarios: now focused on predominantly regulated that the Company and the Group have markets, meaning that there is now adequate financial resources to continue in Both qualitative and quantitative more stability and ability to assess future operational existence for the foreseeable analyses, including the combined scenarios than ever before.
Having said future and for a period of at least 12 impact of the crystallisation of multiple that, the online gaming industry remains months from the approval of this Annual risks simultaneously, as well as stress fast-moving and dynamic, with change Report.
They have therefore continued testing, reverse stress testing and ongoing in the global regulatory and to adopt the going concern basis in sensitivity analyses, which the Directors competitive landscape, and the industry preparing the financial statements.
consider sufficiently robust to make is subject to greater consolidation than a sound statement: and Details of 888s risk management ever before, meaning that it still remains strategy and how it manages and A broad range of relevant matters that difficult to forecast a period longer mitigates its risks are set out in the may threaten 888s viability.
than three years with any significant Risk Management Strategy on page 25. level of certainty.
The severe but plausible scenarios considered by the Directors included: Management currently forecasts as part exit closure of major markets due to of the business planning process and regulatory or legal events, a major cybercapital investment cycle over a varying attack and or data protection violation, period.
A detailed bottom up model is and anticipated tax developments used to budget the business for a period together with the crystallisation of tax of one year in advance and a top down risks.
"In addition, a ""reverse stress test"" model for a period of three years."
was carried out in order to analyse A longer forecasting period might be combinations of risks which could bring required in the context of equity or debt about insolvency of the Company unless financing, however the Company has capital were raised: in such cases it is not completed any such financing in anticipated that mitigation measures which forecasts were produced since its including reduction in dividends and initial public offering IPO in 2005, and overheads could be implemented in believes that the level of certainty over order to forestall such an outcome.
any such longer period decreases to The Directors confirm their view that they such a level as not to be useful for have carried out a robust assessment of planning purposes.
the principal risks facing 888, including On the basis that the top down model those that would threaten its business is sufficiently detailed for the Directors model, future performance, solvency to review, the Directors consider and liquidity.
that a reasonable period on which In light of the foregoing, the Directors it can and should forecast is three confirm they have a reasonable years.
Notwithstanding, the Board expectation that 888 will be able to acknowledges that the Companys continue in operation and meet its prospects should persist into the liabilities as they fall due over the threelonger term.
36 36 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 S Str tra at tegic R egic Report eport 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 37 37
