Strategic Report B2B Dragonfish, the Partner of Choice Under its Dragonfish arm, the Group offers gaming partners a comprehensive end-to-end solution, encompassing customer support, technology, operations and advanced marketing tools.
Drawing on more than two decades Dragonfish offers its partners a wide of 888s track record and reputation in range of more than 570 games, including online gaming, the Dragonfish team is video slots, progressive jackpots, Live uniquely placed to support its partners Dealer, video poker, table games and and deliver a first-class online proposition.
"Dragonfish powers leading Dragonfish is home to one of the worlds brands such as MoonBingo and World leading bingo networks, providing Series Of Poker ""WSOP""."
software to some of the biggest 888s B2B business model is based on names in bingo.
an agreed share of the revenue generated We are steadfastly committed to by its gaming partners.
providing a safe, secure and compliant environment for each of our partners customers and Dragonfishs flexible platform and tools have been developed and certified to meet the rigorous regulatory requirements of the different jurisdictions in which its partners operate.
888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 13 13 Corporate.
888. com 888's Strategy and Progress PRIORITIES 888 has a consistent strategy for sustainable growth that is built on five key pillars, described below.
The delivery of this strategy is based upon harnessing the Groups organic potential as well as evaluating attractive M&A opportunities.
This strategy is underpinned by the 888s operations are directed by highly strength of the Groups people and sophisticated business analytics which technology.
888 owns and develops are critical to the Groups approach to proprietary online gaming technology product development, marketing and and associated platforms and this customer relationship management.
provides the bedrock of the Groups These strengths enable 888 to deliver success.
Owning and developing first-class and innovative online gaming proprietary technology enables 888 entertainment products and solutions.
to create a differentiated customer During 2018, 888 made further progress proposition, adapt to regulatory against its growth strategy: changes effectively and respond quickly to new opportunities.
1 Strategic pillars 2018 performance highlights Casino continued to deliver solid growth with an 8% Development of core increase in revenue to US$317.6 million 2017: US$293.9 B2C brands million and a 16% increase in active players: excluding the 888 continue to develop its B2C UK, Casino revenue increased 17%.
brands to ensure that it offer customers the most enjoyable Successful gradual launch of Orbit from May, 888s online gaming entertainment most exciting Casino product innovation in recent years, possible.
888 has a portfolio of Sport revenue increased 6% to US$80.3 million 2017: established and strong brands in US$75.5 million : excluding the UK, Sport revenues Casino, Sport, Poker and Bingo.
Sport first time depositors increased by 21% 28% outside of UK and deposits increased by 10% 18% excluding UK.
In March 2019, post the year-end, the Group was delighted to announce the exciting and strategically important acquisition of the sports betting platform and team behind BetBright, giving 888 complete ownership over technology and product development across four key online betting verticals for the first time.
"Continued investment in Poker product with launch of Poker in Italy at the beginning of 2018, launch of Progressive Knock Out ""PKO"" format in 2018, and development of the new Poker 8 platform during the year which began its phased roll out in early 2019."
Post the year-end, in February 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of a portfolio of bingo brands, including the well-established Costa Bingo brand, which previously operated as B2B brands on the Groups Dragonfish Platform.
1 All comparisons are against the same data for 2017.
14 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic pillars 2018 performance highlights Marketing ratio decreased to 29% of revenue 2017: 30% but new Enhancing efficiencies customer recruitment increased therefore cost per acquisition declined Management remain steadfastly focused on maximising reflecting the optimisation and efficiency of targeted marketing investment.
operational efficiencies, including by constantly developing and refining marketing approaches and driving increased volumes.
Overall cost ratio reduced to 80% of revenue 2017: 81% reflecting operational efficiencies and strict cost control.
Revenue from regulated and taxed markets comprised 70% of Group Expansion in regulated markets revenue 2017: 70%.
Excluding the UK, the proportion of revenue from 888s focus is on driving growth in markets where there is regulated and taxed markets increased 5.5%.
a sustainable regulatory framework for online gaming and where we are able to benefit from marketing opportunities The Groups diversification strategy continues with the UK now for our brands.
888 has a proven track-record in successfully representing 32% of Group revenue, down from 37%.
and efficiently launching and growing in attractive regulated Spain revenue increased by 8% with lower Poker revenue partially markets.
offsetting strong double-digit growth in both Casino and Sport.
Italy revenue increased by 29% driven by enhanced Casino content including the launch of Orbit during the second half of the year: the launch of Poker at the beginning of the year and a robust Sport performance.
New licences obtained in Sweden and Malta at the end of the year, and a Portuguese license was applied for during 2018 and obtained in early 2019.
Continued development in the US with the launch of 888sport in New Jersey in September, marking the first time 888 has offered sports betting in the US market, and 149 new Casino games added to the Groups offering in New Jersey during 2018.
Acquisition of the remaining 53% interest in AAPN to support future expansion in the US market.
B2B Revenue declined 8% reflecting the challenges of the UK bingo B2B through Dragonfish market as well as the termination of an agreement with Cashcade, We will continue to invest in and develop our B2B offer a former B2B partner.
to establish Dragonfish as the partner of choice in both regulated and newly regulating markets.
21 new skins added to the Dragonfish Bingo network, including eight added to CasinoFlex.
Sustained focus on and investment in enhancing 888s responsibility tools Continue to protect our customers, employees, and processes during the year to: community and act responsibly The Group is constantly mindful of its social responsibilities, better identify vulnerable or potentially vulnerable players: which includes protecting our customers and ensuring they better identify customers with multiple accounts: and enjoy a truly satisfying experience.
check customer source of funds.
888 continues to invest resources in caring for our customers, protecting the vulnerable, and ensuring that we continue to Further investment in training our team to help them identify and interact entertain those who choose to play with 888. better with vulnerable or potentially vulnerable customers.
888 has policies in place to prevent bribery and corruption, Due diligence processes are in place with regard to the Companys antipromote the well-being and diversity of its employees and bribery policy and anti-modern slavery policy.
Particular focus is given prevent violations of human rights in its supply chain.
888 to bribery risks involved in dealings with foreign government officials periodically reviews the Groups environmental impact, and brokers, and to human slavery risks in respect of service providers however notes that as an online business this is limited, to the Groups offices in less developed countries.
and therefore has not adopted a formal policy at this stage.
The strategic report, from pages 08 to 15, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 12 March 2019.
Itai Pazner Chief Executive Officer 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 15
