888. com Regulation and General Regulatory Developments IN A DYNAMIC GLOBAL MARKET Like its predecessor, 2018 brought many changes to the online gaming industry, nowhere more so than in the United States where the overturn of PASPA by the US Supreme Court ushered in legal sports betting.
The 888 Group continued to seize We look forward to working with the increasing trend towards tailored our partners in the industry and with regulation of online gaming to increase its regulators toward shaping a regulatory presence in locally regulated markets and landscape that is business-friendly grow its licensing portfolio.
In the face of whilst safeguarding the objectives regulatory reforms and increased scrutiny of the industry's regulation.
from regulatory authorities, the Group The following paragraphs summarise the continues to adapt to shifting regulatory main relevant regulatory developments environments, while striving constantly of 2018 and our expectations regarding to maintain the highest compliance changes that may impact 888 in 2019. standards and to support the move towards clearer regulation in the online gaming industry.
32 32 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 Strategic Report Licences Europe UK Italy US Gibraltar Denmark Ireland Malta Nevada Romania Portugal Delaware Spain Sweden New Jersey Europe 2018 saw several European jurisdictions With attention in the EU dedicated Brexit, presently scheduled to occur in adopting new regulatory regimes for to Brexit, there were no noticeable March 2019, could see Gibraltar cease online gaming or significantly amending developments at the pan-European level to be a part of the EU.
Though a growing dedicated to gambling, and regulation based group, with many of its licensed number of European jurisdictions now continued to develop on the national subsidiaries registered in Gibraltar, the have robust regimes in place allowing for level.
Similarly, 2018 saw no landmark Group commenced a restructuring of its the licensing of commercial operators rulings by the European Court of Justice European-facing business during 2018, to to offer various forms of online gaming, on matters pertaining to gambling.
This would see there remain pockets within Europe where part of the Groups operations migrated The entry into force in 2018 of the the regulatory regimes are ambiguous, to other EU Member States, most GDPR had a significant effect on the non-compliant with EU law, or simply notably Malta, where the Group is now privacy and data protection practices ignore the technological advancements a licensed operator.
Other parts of the of companies dealing with information in the industry.
We perceive these as Groups business will remain in Gibraltar.
relating to EU residents, and 888 brought obstacles to the growth of the industry The final form of this restructuring may its practices and policies in line with the and also as an impediment to channelling be dependent on the particulars of the requirements imposed by this Regulation.
commerce towards secure and compliant UKs departure from the EU, however operators, leaving players less protected the Group has put measures in place and with less access to quality services.
to ensure that its operations continue We hope, therefore, that 2019 will see a undisturbed under any variation of Brexit.
further elimination of this situation in those jurisdictions where it persists.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 33 Corporate.
888. com Regulation and General Regulatory Developments Continued The UKGC has reportedly been In March 2018, the German Federal Europe continued working with banks on a plan that Administrative Court upheld the A number of regulatory developments in would give players the possibility current Treatys compliance with European jurisdictions during 2018 have of restricting or blocking gamblingEU law when it comes to its prohibition had an effect on 888s operations and will related transactions directly from of remote casinos, scratch cards and continue to do so in 2019: their bank accounts.
A leading poker games, and restricting sports high-street bank has already made betting contrary to previous rulings In the UK, 888s main market, the such an option available to account by both German and EU courts.
Group continued adapting to meet holders.
This development, as well This ruling, which only formally applies the developing and increasingly more as the introduction during 2018 of with respect to a particular prohibition stringent regulatory requirements, GamSTOP a national self-exclusion order issued in a single German state, a process which continues to program could have a significant raised concerns over a possible shift in require significant efforts and the impact on UK-licensed operators.
the approach to enforcement in other implementation of changes in many German jurisdictions.
An attempt by areas of the business.
We continue In January 2019, the Group obtained a the state of Lower Saxony to prevent to work to adapt our operations license in Portugal in order to bring its payment processors from processing and working modalities to ensure offering to players in this jurisdiction.
payments for German players has been ongoing adherence to the various and linked to this ruling, as have efforts evolving requirements applicable to On 1 January 2019 a new law regulating in the state of Baden Wuerttemberg our UK operations.
the online gaming market came into to give effect to the prohibition force in Sweden.
888 obtained a The UKGC placed significant orders upheld by the Federal Court.
Swedish license under this new law attention during 2018 on the The Company filed a petition to the and now offers its services in Sweden protection of consumers, specifically German Federal Constitutional Court under a local license and in accordance problem gamblers and underage seeking to overturn the Administrative with the new regulatory framework in gamblers, and on raising standards Court ruling, and a ruling on the place in this jurisdiction.
These focal admissibility of this petition is pending.
points will be monitored, as before, In Switzerland, voters in a referendum In parallel, the Company has sought by both the UKGC and the CMA.
upheld a new law regulating the online to engage in constructive dialogue 888 implemented sweeping changes gaming and betting market.
This law, with various German authorities to our problem gambling detection which came into force on 1 January with respect to its operations in this systems, updating triggers and 2019 with a 6 month transitional jurisdiction.
The Group also obtained introducing additional interaction period for enforcement, provides for an interim license from the state of points, in an effort to better identify the licensing of land-based casinos Schleswig Holstein, whose previous potential problem gamblers and to offer online casino gambling.
licensing regime lapsed at the end of prevent the use of our services The Group continues to investigate 2018.
The Group remains hopeful that, by those for whom they are not potential business opportunities in as one of Europes largest jurisdictions, appropriate.
this newly regulated market and will Germany will make moves in 2019 to evaluate its strategy with respect to clarify its regulatory landscape and to During 2018, the UKGC issued fines the Swiss market, in light of the new adopt a regime that is beneficial for to various operators for failings law, accordingly.
consumers, operators and the state.
pertaining to consumer protection, money laundering and the use of In the Netherlands, progress towards In Italy, where 888 renewed its licensed proceeds of crime for gambling.
liberalization of the market continued, status after the expiry of the first We have scrutinized the UKGCs and legislation introducing a new set of concessions issued under the findings and determinations in regulatory framework for online current law, lawmakers imposed these cases and, where necessary, gaming was passed by Parliament an extensive ban on advertising have implemented changes in in February 2019.
In the interim, the related to gambling, which included the Groups business modalities Dutch regulator continued to update a gradual implementation timeline to ensure they are in line with its enforcement policy, based on the and limited grandfathering of existing our understanding of the UKGCs prioritization criteria for enforcement, advertising relationships.
The Group expectations and demands.
and issued several fines, including to has implemented measures to comply large international operators, whose with the new regulations, which are The Group continued to engage operations were perceived to be in anticipated to have an impact on with the UKGC with respect to violation of these criteria.
the growth of this market.
Other cases submitted to its attention jurisdictions in Europe where the Group by the UKGC and is committed to Germanys regulatory landscape operates, including Spain, have similarly continuing its open and productive remains riddled with uncertainty, been considering restrictions on the dialogue with the UKGC on all although the market yielded a few advertising of gambling services.
matters pertaining to our operations.
regulatory and legal developments in 2018.
The future of the German Late in the year, UK licensed Inter-State Gambling Treaty continues bookmakers agreed to self-impose to be a cause for friction between the an advertising watershed.
Several German states came amid calls, including within including, most recently, Hesse have Parliament, for the imposition suggested they would break with the of stricter restrictions on the other German states if progress was advertising of gambling services.
not made towards liberalization of the online gaming market in line with neighbouring jurisdictions.
34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report The United States 2018 saw major shifts in the regulatory landscape in the US.
"In May 2018, the US Supreme Court issued its landmark ruling overturning in its entirety the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act ""PASPA""."
As a result, states were once again empowered to regulate sports betting within their respective territories.
Some states whose laws already allowed for the regulation of sports betting subject to the removal of any federal law impediment, proceeded shortly after the ruling to launch regulated sports betting activities.
Others, including West Virginia and the District of Columbia adopted legislation introducing sports betting to the state in some cases this was restricted to land-based betting only, and in others it included online betting as well.
In Michigan, a bill to regulate online gambling was vetoed by the State Governor in the last days of 2018, returning the issue to the state legislature.
New Jersey, where 888 has been operating for several years, launched regulated online sports betting shortly after the Supreme Court ruling, and the Group commenced offering these services in the state with its local partners.
The repeal of PASPA and the emergence of regulated sports betting on the state level have prompted debate in Washington DC around new federal legislation either banning sports betting or imposing a federal layer of regulation on the industry.
A bill on this matter was tabled in the US Senate in the final days of 2018, but with the commencement of a new session of Congress it is unclear whether and in what form the federal legislature will address this industry.
In 2018, Pennsylvania launched online gambling under a 2017 law, including Further afield casino and sports betting.
In 2018, Australia adopted a much awaited Brazil, whose antiquated gambling laws did With new legislatures and new amendment to the 2001 Interactive Gambling not specifically regulate online gambling, administrations taking power in various Act, providing the authorities with significant adopted framework legislation late in 2018 states following the mid-term elections, enforcement tools against operators offering which would bring commercial online proposed legislation to reform the unlicensed gambling services.
The Group's gambling to this significant jurisdiction.
The gambling landscape in some key states operations are fully compliant with the law gives the local authorities two years to is anticipated to be tabled during 2019. amended Act.
develop implementing regulations, a process Attention is focused on New York where which has already commenced.
Given the size Two heavily populated districts of Argentina the public debate on the regulation of of this market, an accommodating regime in the State and City of Buenos Aires adopted online gambling continued in 2018.
Brazil could represent a significant opportunity legislation late in 2018 introducing commercial for the Group, though this is not likely to We believe the developments in the gambling services.
Details about the licensing materialise in 2019.
US have the potential to transform the structure and scope are expected in the US into a major gambling primarily coming months.
In parallel, the Argentinian 888 continues to follow these developments betting market, and 888 intends to communications regulator has increased to assess their impact on our business and to follow these developments as they evolve efforts to block access to offshore online identify potential opportunities for growth.
with a view to capitalising on our strong gambling services, a move which may be position in this market.
linked to the anticipated emergence of a locally regulated market.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 35
