169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 8 Managers Report Introduction In common with most other equity markets, UK stocks struggled in 2018.
The FTSE All-Share, which is dominated by large companies, produced a total return of -9.5%.
Small companies were weaker still, with a total return from the NSCI XIC of -15.3%.
Despite the good start to the year described in the interim report, ASCoT generated a net asset value total return of -15.4%.
The principal influences on this performance are described in the Investment performance section of this report.
These weak returns render 2018 the first bad year for UK equities since 2011.
Nevertheless, total returns from the NSCI XIC and the FTSE All-Share since 2011 have been 117% and 66% respectively.
After so strong a run, the chances of a setback inevitably climb, though probability offers little comfort when prices start to fall.
Back in 2011, the Eurozone crisis was in full swing.
Today, the obvious equivalent is the UKs impending exit from the European Union.
Brexit has indeed affected the performance of small caps in general and the portfolio, but, as the year progressed, it became clear that the UK no longer has a monopoly on gloom.
Macro-economic and populist challenges have arisen around the globe to undermine 2017s synchronised global recovery and equity valuations.
Europe, whose growth surprised so positively in 2017, faltered in 2018.
The uncertainties of Brexit inevitably cast a shadow and the European Central Banks move to taper its quantitative easing programme adds further uncertainty.
Meanwhile, Italys populist government has challenged the European Commission with its controversial budget, a confrontation complicated by higher government spending in France as Emmanuel Macron backtracked on fuel duty increases.
Further afield, China has also seen a slowdown in its rate of growth, which at this stage seems as much a function of internal policy to address lending excesses as a result of trade wars with the US.
Donald Trumps America First policies have helped to keep the US economy moving ahead at an enviable rate but have also represented a challenge to the era of globalisation, which has favoured capital over labour to the advantage of financial markets.
One manifestation has been the strong dollar, which is itself problematic for overseas businesses that have taken on dollar borrowings.
Another important influence on the dollar has been the tightening of monetary policy by the Federal Reserve.
Jay Powell, the recently appointed chairman, has thus far proved resolute in balancing the stimulus of the presidents inflationary fiscal policies with quantitative tightening and higher interest rates.
In response, US government bonds repriced, with the ten year yield rising from 2.4% at the start to the year through 3.2% in November.
However, financial markets grew increasingly alarmed about the pace of tightening and the ten year yield dropped back to 2.7% by the year end.
Through all this, the US yield curve the difference between the yields of short and long dated bonds flattened and has come close to inversion.
An inverted yield curve, where long dated yields are below short dated yields, has historically proved a good, though not flawless, indicator of recession.
Such concerns explain much of the weakness of global equity markets as 2018 came to an end after a decade of very low interest rates and quantitative easing, normalisation of monetary policy in the worlds largest economy was never going to be straightforward.
While influenced by these global issues, the UK financial markets remain a case apart and, with Brexit unresolved, scepticism about the domestic economy abounds.
While catastrophe did not follow the referendum, it is clear that the leave vote has imposed an opportunity cost on the UK economy as it has dropped down the G7 growth rankings.
Sterling and asset valuations have taken the strain, but the risk of a hard Brexit and an economic downturn remains.
This risk disproportionately affects small UK quoted companies, which are more reliant on the domestic economy than their larger peers.
However, with valuations already depressed, the opposite also holds true: all else being equal, anything short of a departure without a deal should bode well for the asset class.
Brexit survey To gain a different perspective on the ubiquitous Brexit debate, in September the Managers undertook a survey of the 93 companies held within Aberforth funds.
The questions focused on the companies reactions to the referendum and on potential future actions.
The response rate was 94%, which represents a useful cross-section of the small cap universe.
The overall impression was of frustration with the politics, the Brexit process and lingering uncertainty.
The lengthiest and most detailed responses tended to come from businesses oriented towards the domestic economy.
This is unsurprising, though to an extent reassuring, since it is these companies that have been most affected by the decision to leave the EU.
The survey identified three principal areas of concern.
Employment: executives are worried about the availability of relatively cheap and skilful labour from the EU against the background of the rising national living wage.
Sterling: there is an overwhelming assumption that sterling would weaken further in the event of a hard Brexit, which would be to the disadvantage of domestic businesses but to the benefit of overseas-oriented businesses.
Supply chain: there is concern that a deal-less Brexit would complicate the movement of goods into and out of the UK at least in the short term.
Contingency planning for several companies involves pre-emptive inventory building ahead of March.
The results of the survey need to be considered in the context of the continuing uncertainty about the Brexit process and outcome: company executives are having to operate with limited information and little guidance to date from 8 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 9 Managers Report government.
Nevertheless, the survey did suggest that the companies are not complacent: money and time are being spent on preparations.
This cannot, however, guarantee that the businesses will emerge unscathed, despite the commendable resilience displayed since the referendum in 2016.
Investment performance To recap, the NSCI XIC s total return in 2018 was -15.3%, while ASCoTs NAV total return was -15.4%.
Clearly, the most significant influence on ASCoTs performance was the weak returns from equities in general.
Beginning with the table below, the following section analyses the other important influences in 2018.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2018 Basis points Stock selection -46 Sector selection 89 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 43 after transaction costs of 22 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 2 Cash gearing -9 Purchase of ordinary shares 30 Management fee -70 Other expenses -5 Total attribution based on bid prices -9 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV -15.44%: Benchmark Index -15.35%: difference is -0.09% being -9 basis points.
Sectors The overhang of Brexit means that sector exposure has been an unusually large influence on the performance of ASCoT and of small caps in general since the referendum.
The following comments on sectors are not made with reference to the NSCI XIC s forty or so industrial classifications that determine the Sector selection data in the table above.
Rather, sector exposure here refers to two distinct groups of companies: those that derive a majority of their sales from the domestic economy and those more dependent on overseas markets.
The fortunes of these two groups have diverged substantially since the referendum, with the domestics under-performing the overseas earners by 24%.
This reflects different profit dynamics under the influence of sterling weakness.
The overseas companies have seen their sterling profits rise as income streams earned in euros or dollars have been translated into pounds.
In contrast, the domestics have had to deal with insipid consumer spending and a hit to gross margins as foreign currency input costs have risen in sterling terms.
The table below sets out the geographical exposures of the portfolio and of the benchmark.
These are calculated by reference to the sales of the underlying companies.
In comparison with the NSCI XIC, ASCoT was well positioned for what followed the referendum and relative performance benefited accordingly.
However, the extent of the underperformance by the domestics is such that their valuations have become increasingly attractive.
Consistent with the Managers value investment discipline and as part of the usual bottom-up stock selection process, this resulted in capital within ASCoTs portfolio gradually moving from overseas to domestic businesses.
It is worth noting, though, that the pervasive market weakness of the fourth quarter has levelled the playing field somewhat: there are opportunities in all parts of the stockmarket.
ASCoT NSCI XIC Overseas Domestic Overseas Domestic End 2018 38% 62% 42% 58% End 2016 47% 53% 41% 59% Style & Size Following a bad year for value investment in 2017 the ninth worst since 1955 the interim report noted the improved performance of the style through the second quarter and suggested that this might have been assisted by the sharp rise in US government bond yields.
The second half of the year saw the market question the lofty valuations of many of the USs high growth internet businesses, but the relapse in bond yields into the end of the year undermined the rotation towards value.
In addition, style dynamics within the NSCI XIC were influenced by the specific issue of Brexit: todays typical small cap value stock is sensitive to the economic cycle and so is likely to be particularly affected by the uncertain outlook.
Data from the London Business School suggest that, despite its strong start to the year, value modestly lagged Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 10 Managers Report growth over 2018 as a whole.
Given the Managers value investment philosophy, this represented a hindrance to ASCoTs returns.
Turning to size, this was an important factor within the UK stockmarket.
Against the backdrop of heightened riskaversion, particularly through the latter part of the year, small companies under-performed large in 2018, with a total return of -15.3% from the NSCI XIC and -9.5% from the FTSE All-Share.
However, within the NSCI XIC itself, size was not a significant influence on performance.
The NSCI XIC represents the bottom tenth of the total value of the UK stockmarket.
This means that its largest constituent has a market capitalisation of 1.3 billion and that 59% of its total value is made up of an overlap with the FTSE 250.
A useful gauge of size effects within the NSCI XIC is to compare the performances of the FTSE 250 and FTSE SmallCap.
In 2018, the latter fell by slightly less than the former.
Therefore, since ASCoT retains its bias towards the more attractively valued smaller small companies, the size factor would have been a modest boost to performance in 2018.
Balance sheets To generalise, the boards of companies within the NSCI XIC reacted to the financial crisis by conserving cash to strengthen their balance sheets.
This was an understandable reaction to what they had endured in 2008 and 2009.
In more recent years, there have been signs of a return to more normal levels of confidence, with unusually strong balance sheets put to work in the form of greater investment, acquisitions or returns of cash to shareholders.
Assuming that investment propositions have been well judged, the Managers welcome this development, but there is the risk that balance sheets become over-stretched as happened in the years before the crisis.
This would not yet appear to be the case, as shown in the table below, which sets out the distribution of the portfolio and of the NSCI XIC by balance sheet strength of the underlying companies.
Net debt EBITDA Net debt EBITDA Based on 2019 estimates Net cash 2x 2x Loss makers ASCoT 21% 52% 27% 0% NSCI XIC 27% 38% 28% 7% As 2018 progressed, there were indications that banks have become choosier in their lending and that credit conditions are becoming less easy, with the retail and construction sectors appearing to be under particular pressure.
It is too early to determine whether this is simply a consequence of Carillions failure or if the lenders are girding themselves in the run-up to the departure from the EU.
Income Dividend growth has been one of the most positive features of the small cap universe in recent years.
Between 2012 and 2017, annual growth from the NSCI XIC averaged 9%, adjusted for inflation, well above the 62 year average rate of 3%.
History dictates that a slowdown is inevitable and there are indications that it may have started in 2018.
It is tempting once again to identify Brexit concerns as an influence.
However, such a theme is not explicit in companies results statements and the deceleration would appear to be a function of one-off cuts and fewer special dividends.
Clearly, though, this might change in the event of a hard Brexit.
Turning to the portfolios dividend experience, the table below splits holdings into categories that are determined by each companys most recent dividend announcement, excluding specials.
Notwithstanding the previous comments about small cap dividends in general, the message from the table is similar to that of recent years: a handful of dividend cutters, the persistence of several nil payers and a bias to companies that most recently increased their dividends.
As a reminder, the Other category includes companies that have returned to the dividend register or that have paid dividends for the first time and that therefore do not have a meaningful comparative payment in the previous year.
While the outlook for ASCoTs dividends will be substantially influenced by the fortunes of smaller companies in general, the balance sheet picture described above and average portfolio dividend cover of 2.9x continue to offer support.
Down Nil payers No change Increase Other 7 18 24 28 4 Corporate activity Against a backdrop of buoyant M&A activity around the world, Brexit concerns contributed to a quieter period for corporate activity within the NSCI XIC.
Only 14 bids for NSCI XIC constituents were completed or were outstanding at the end of the year, down from 17 in 2017 and from 33 two years before that.
Of the 14, ASCoT held three, one of which was announced towards the end of 2017.
Overall, M&A dragged on ASCoTs relative returns in 2018.
10 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 11 Managers Report Despite some ambitious advisers and what is reputedly a full pipeline of potential deals, the frequency of IPOs also declined in 2018, with 13 completed against 21 the previous year.
ASCoT did not participate in any of the 13: in the opinion of the Managers, the valuations of the companies did not offer sufficient compensation for the information advantage enjoyed by the sellers.
Turnover Portfolio turnover was 26% in 2018.
This compares with 22% in 2017 and with a long term average of 35%.
As usual, an element of the 26% was driven by situations in which ASCoT is effectively a forced seller, such as when a holding is taken over or is deemed too large to remain in the NSCI XIC.
Excluding such situations, the underlying rate of turnover was low at 14% in 2018, which is below the long term average on this basis of 23%.
Underlying turnover tends to be influenced by investment performance: if the stockmarket chooses not to re-rate ASCoTs holdings, there is not the scope to rotate capital into cheaper companies and so turnover is low.
Conversely, better relative performance tends to be associated with a pick-up in turnover.
Active share Active share is a measure of how different a portfolio is from an index.
It is calculated as half of the sum of the absolute differences between each stocks weighting in an index and its weighting in the portfolio.
A higher active share would indicate that a portfolio has a better chance of performing differently from the index, for better or worse.
The Managers target a ratio of at least 70% for ASCoT in relation to the NSCI XIC and at the start of January 2019 the ratio was 77%.
Active share can be flattered by holding companies that are not constituents of the comparable index.
The Managers believe that it is important for investors to know in what part of the stockmarket ASCoT is invested and accordingly there are limited circumstances in which the portfolio can hold companies that are not in the NSCI XIC.
At the start of January 2019, all of the portfolio value was represented by constituents of the index.
Valuations There is no shortage of data to suggest that sterling assets are particularly unloved at present.
Anxiety has intensified as Brexit enters, presumably, its final phase.
The bias of small companies to the domestic economy renders them particularly vulnerable to a badly handled departure.
As the table below shows, this has been reflected in a sharp fiderating of the asset class, with the historical PEs of both the NSCI XIC and the portfolio dropping sharply through 2018.
At 10.9x, the PE of the index is 19% below its average since 1990.
The only two occasions in which the multiple has been lower for a sustained period of time have coincided with recession, specifically in the early 1990s and during the financial crisis.
31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Portfolio Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 81 359 86 350 Weighted average market capitalisation 524m 732m 712m 878m Price earnings PE ratio historic 9.6x 10.9x 12.5x 14.3x Dividend yield historic 3.7% 3.6% 2.9% 2.8% Dividend cover 2.9x 2.6x 2.6x 2.5x The table below provides forward-looking valuation data using the Managers favoured metric of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA.
Ratios are shown for the portfolio, the tracked universe and certain subdivisions of the tracked universe.
The tracked universe refers to the 284 companies that the Managers follow closely and that account for 97% by value of the entire NSCI XIC.
EV EBITA 2018 2019 2020 ASCoT 9.7x 8.3x 7.5x Tracked universe 284 stocks 10.5x 9.6x 8.5x - 49 growth stocks 16.5x 14.7x 13.2x - 235 other stocks 9.7x 8.8x 7.9x The table demonstrates the valuation advantage enjoyed by the portfolio, which has been a constant feature of ASCoTs portfolio over its 28 years and is a function of the Managers value investment philosophy.
Underlying that valuation advantage are three particular features of todays universe of small UK quoted companies.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 12 Managers Report Despite pressure on the valuations of some of the worlds technology titans in recent months, the table shows that growth stocks remain significantly more expensive than value stocks.
In the UK context, that premium would be challenged by a period of more buoyant economic conditions and by progress towards a normalisation of monetary policy.
There remains a distinct premium for size and, by extension, liquidity.
The average 2019 EV EBITA ratio of larger small companies i. e. those with market capitalisations of at least 500m is 27% higher than that of the smaller smalls, despite no obvious difference in the underlying business prospects for the two groups.
Using average 2019 EV EBITA ratios, overseas facing companies enjoy a 12% premium to the domestics, which are perceived as potential Brexit victims.
The premium is not vast, but the profit dynamics of the two groups have diverged as sterling weakness has taken the profits of many overseas earners to all-time highs but has eroded margins of the domestic players.
Outlook & Conclusion The uncertainties surrounding the UKs departure from the EU have clearly been a fundamental influence on the UK stockmarket over the past year and, with the matter yet to be resolved, it continues to affect the valuation opportunities described above.
It is tempting, as many have done, to portray investment in small UK quoted companies as binary at the current time.
In the event of a hard Brexit, the economy would be vulnerable to a further slowdown and, given presently low rates of growth, recession.
Renewed monetary stimulus would be likely.
It is possible that the risks of a downturn and further uncertainty would prove not to have been fully reflected in share prices and in sterling.
Weaker sterling would insulate the overseas earners, but businesses reliant on the domestic economy would come under renewed pressure.
A softer Brexit, along the lines of the prime ministers withdrawal agreement, would avoid a near term downturn and, through the removal of uncertainty, might see an acceleration in the economy as businesses increase investment.
Sterling would plausibly recover at least some of its losses since the referendum and the outflow from UK assets would start to reverse.
Some of the current headwinds facing the profits of domestic businesses would presumably turn to tailwinds, with the opposite being the case for the overseas earners.
However, this stark portrayal of ASCoTs investment proposition feels rather short term.
On the one side, it ignores the likelihood that political uncertainty will continue to beset the UK even if an immediate hard Brexit is avoided.
On the other, it implies something close to Doomsday for small companies, whereas the events of ten years ago in the financial crisis proved their resilience.
Good management and the support of the equity markets in the refinancing of 2009 allowed businesses to recover and grow.
From its previous peak in May 2007 to the end of 2018, the NSCI XIC doubled in total return terms.
The Managers therefore suspect that, after the inevitable short term adjustment to a hard Brexit, a degree of clarity would return to allow small companies to resume their well established habit of creating wealth for their shareholders.
The binary view also risks ignoring economic and financial developments in the rest of the world, which, as the events of the fourth quarter demonstrate, will affect perceptions of and future returns from UK equities.
Notably, there is potential for a normalisation of US monetary policy to upset the established investment strategies since the financial crisis.
This is not to argue that the valuations of growth stocks cannot move even higher or that the path to a normal cost of money will be short and without setbacks.
However, to judge by the portfolio profiles of investment and unit trusts investing in small UK quoted companies, the desire to own growth stocks is extreme, while value investing remains very much out of fashion.
Finally, the binary characterisation is essentially the consensus view.
This in itself does not mean that the view is wrong, but history suggests that a strong consensus can often lead to opportunities within financial markets, such as in 1981 when 364 economists penned a poorly timed letter criticising government policy.
The strength of the consensus against the majority of small UK quoted companies is evident in their unusually depressed valuations.
The Managers believe that the differentiation of ASCoTs well diversified portfolio keeps it relevant and that, with sentiment towards UK equities, small companies and value investment so negative, it is well placed to generate good returns in the future.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 25 January 2019 12 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
