169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:18 Page 4 Investment Policy and Strategy Investment Policy The Company aims to achieve its objective by investing in small UK quoted companies.
These are companies with a market capitalisation, at time of purchase, equal to or lower than that of the largest company in the bottom 10% of the main UK equity market or companies in the NSCI XIC.
At 1 January 2019 the date of the last annual index rebalancing, the index included 359 companies, with an aggregate market capitalisation of 140 billion.
Its upper market capitalisation limit was 1.3 billion, although this limit changes owing to movements in the stockmarket.
If any holding no longer falls within this definition of a small company, its securities become candidates for sale.
Portfolio risk is spread by diversification of holdings in individual companies: the portfolio will usually have holdings in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
The Company may, at time of purchase, invest up to 15% of its assets in any one security.
However, in practice, each investment will typically be substantially less and, at market value, represent less than 5% of the portfolio on an on-going basis.
The Companys policy towards companies quoted on the Alternative Investment Market AIM generally precludes investment, except either where an investee company moves from the Main Market to AIM so as to avoid being a forced seller or where a company quoted on AIM has committed to move from AIM to the Main Market so as to enable investment before a full listing is obtained.
The Company does not invest in any unquoted companies.
Neither does the Company invest in securities issued by other UK listed closed-ended investment funds except where they are eligible to be included in the NSCI XIC.
In any event, the Company invests no more than 15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Managers aim to keep the Company near fully invested in equities at all times and there is normally no attempt to engage in market timing by holding high levels of liquidity.
The Company may employ gearing.
The Board, in conjunction with the Managers, is responsible for determining the parameters for gearing.
When considered appropriate, gearing is used tactically in order to enhance returns.
The Board believes that small UK quoted companies continue to provide opportunities for positive total returns over the long term.
Any material changes to the Companys investment objective and policy will be subject to Shareholder approval.
Investment Strategy The Managers adhere to a value investment philosophy.
In practice, this approach utilises several valuation metrics, recognising that flexibility is required when assessing businesses in different industries and that buyers of these businesses may include other corporates as well as stockmarket investors.
As a result of this philosophy, the Companys holdings are usually on more attractive valuations than the average for the NSCI XIC.
While there is good evidence that a value approach within small UK quoted companies results in superior returns over the long term, there can be extended periods when the value style is out of favour.
The Managers select companies for the portfolio on the basis of fundamental or bottom-up analysis.
Analysis involves scrutiny of businesses financial statements and assessment of their market positions.
An important part of the process is regular engagement with board members of prospective and existing investments.
Holdings are sold typically when their valuations reach targets determined by the Managers.
In order to improve the odds of achieving the investment objective, the Managers believe that the portfolio must be adequately differentiated from the benchmark index.
Therefore, within the diversification parameters described in Investment Policy, the Managers regularly review the level of differentiation, with the aim of maximising the active share of the portfolio.
Dividend Policy The Board confirms its commitment to a policy of progressive dividends.
In addition, in order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must not retain more than 15% of its income from any financial year.
The Company pays an interim dividend in August each year based on the forecast net revenue position for the current financial year.
A final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, is then paid in March each year based on the actual net income for the financial year just ended and the future earnings forecasts.
4 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
