Delivering economic growth Acacia is a major contributor to economic growth in Tanzania and supports the country's US$3bn In total we have spent over socioeconomic advancement in line with the US$3 billion with Tanzanian suppliers to support our Government's Development Vision 2025. businesses since inception Our financial contributions include royalties, taxes, employee salaries, payments to suppliers and contractors, as well as investment in our 10% local communities.
Acacia plans to increase its annual spend with Tanzanian-owned suppliers by 10% to US$140m by mid-2019 US$92.5m Total investment in Tanzania in 2018 US$1.3billion US$4.0billion Acacia has paid a total of over US$1.3 billion in taxes and royalties in Tanzania Acacia and its predecessor companies have made over US$4 billion of capital investment in Tanzania over the past 15 years 4 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT US$441m Acacias contribution to the Tanzanian economy in Case study 2018 through suppliers, employees and taxes Growing our Local Supply Chain Our investment and operations in Tanzania open 2018 for services such as construction and up unique opportunities for local industry and facilities management.
suppliers to establish and grow businesses Johansen Kajuna, Hajokas founder and US$273m while also contributing to economic growth in managing director, recalls that the company the regions around our mines.
The amount Acacia received its big break in 2014 when he won spent with suppliers based With this in mind, we have progressed a a tender to manage facilities at the Buzwagi in Tanzania in 2018 number of strategies within our Supply Chain mine.
Since then the business has provided function with the goal of further increasing our employment to around 300 staff and its annual spend on goods and services with revenue from contracts with Acacia has suppliers based in Tanzania.
As part of this we grown to more than US$3 million.
plan to increase our annual spend specifically Acacia has had a huge impact towards the with Tanzanian-owned businesses to growth of our company, Mr Kajuna explains.
US$127m approximately US$140 million by mid-2019.
Their business has helped us gain expertise The amount Acacia At all three of our sites we aim to support local and increase our capital to source world-class contributed in taxes and businesses which have the opportunity to bid equipment and expand our operations.
I feel royalties to the Tanzanian for valuable tenders at the mine.
Hajoka honoured that our growth has not only Government in 2018 International is a Tanzanian contractor based benefited us but also had a positive impact near our Buzwagi mine in the Shinyanga region in our communities and economy at large.
and the company has benefitted significantly in recent years from contracts it has won with the mine.
The company was founded just five years ago and has quickly grown to be one of the regions largest general contractors, winning tenders with Acacia worth US$1.1 million in 168 143 127 122 Last 11 years 117 114 111 92 annual tax 70 63 44 contributions 1 2 to Tanzania US$million 1.
Includes royalties, corporate tax, payroll tax, withholding tax, import duties, and fuel and local levies.
Unaudited ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 5 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Building a lasting legacy From our in-house training programmes to our partnerships with leading 96.2% A total of 96.2% of universities in Dar es Salaam, Acacia has our employees are Tanzanian Nationals always invested in people to shape the future of Tanzania's mining industry.
"100 At least 100 Tanzanian students enrolled in mining-related studies benefit from work and training at our mine sites each year 198 87.5% A total of 198 employees graduated from Acacia's flagship ""Rainbow"" training programme in 2018 303 We have reduced the number of international employees by 87.5% in the last six years A total of 303 of our people have completed our Rainbow Leadership Programme since 2016 6 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Investment in Tanzanian Talent We are delivering tailored professional training programmes US$1.4m for our staff in an effort to create tomorrow's leaders in the Acacia has invested mining industry as we transition key business support US$1.4m in training Tanzanian apprentices functions to Tanzania by mid-2019."
in the mining industry Case study Cultivating the Leaders of Tomorrow 70% Around 70% of in Tanzanias Mining Industry our management positions are held by Tanzanians In 2018 a total of 198 of our staff members As Tanzania progresses its industrialisation Over the last ten years the Company has graduated from the companys Rainbow agenda, Rainbow and other professional invested in excess of US$1.4 million across Leadership Development Programme, our training programmes delivered by Acacia its three mines North Mara, Bulyanhulu and flagship professional development training provide a crucial platform for our Tanzanian Buzwagi to train more than 380 apprentices.
employees to progress within the Company Tanzania's minister for education, Professor but also enable them to contribute more Joyce Ndalichako, praised our IMTT offering The latest graduations took place as the widely to the countrys economic growth and and its alignment with the national development Company progressed plans to transition key development goals, Janet Reuben-Lekashingo, agenda saying, This programme serves to business functions in support of our Tanzanian Acacias General Manager for Organisational uplift training standards to produce highly operations such as Supply Chain, Sales and Effectiveness, said.
skilled artisans in Tanzania, competent enough Payroll into Tanzania.
to work in any mining or manufacturing At the same time we continue to advance our Rainbow is a six-month programme that operation.
Integrated Mining Technical Training IMTT develops talent among staff in first-level programme.
This is an intensive vocational management roles and forms part of our long-term course that ensures young apprentices are strategy where we aim to have our Tanzanian equipped with the right skills, training and assets being led and operated by Tanzanian qualifications before they begin their careers employees.
Various company training programmes in mining or other similar industries.
have enabled the business to reduce its international workforce by 87.5% over the last six years.
As of 31 December 2018, 96.2% of Acacias employees were Tanzanian nationals.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 7 Creating a social impact It is key for us to be a responsible and committed partner.
We are proactive in US$5.5m We have invested US$5.5m over our partnerships and aim to add further the last seven years in improving the quality of healthcare value through investment in education, available to our communities health and infrastructure.
38% Approximately 38% of our Sustainable Communities investment over the last five years has been in education 150,000 In 2018 our Sustainable Communities projects positively impacted over 150,000 Tanzanians US$8.8million US$92million Our strategic social investment in 2018 Our strategic social investment in the communities around our mines since 2010 8 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT During the year, Acacia continued The teacher training programme Case study its support for the advancement has followed on the back of our of Tanzania's education sector support for the renovation and Teacher Training and the needs of schools in the construction of several schools communities around our mines.
and educational facilities in our Delivers Education Boost In August, our North Mara mine local communities over the last supported training for more six years.
Between 2012 and in Tarime District than 240 primary and secondary 2018 our North Mara mine teachers in the surrounding invested more than US$12 million Tarime district.
around TZS 28.6 billion in building vital educational infrastructure Participants in the three-day including classrooms, science programme learnt important laboratories, teachers houses, skills to help improve teaching and libraries.
standards in core subjects such as Mathematics, Science and In line with our social investment English Language.
The teachers strategy the mine now seeks to were also given training on how to add value to such public facilities improve lesson plans and provide by helping to deliver improvements effective learning aids to pupils.
in the delivery of teaching and schooling while also developing The Assistant Secretary of the a culture of learning that lends Tarime District Council Teachers itself to academic achievement.
Service Commission, Julius Christopher Agutu, expressed his thanks to North Mara for the teacher training initiative stating that he was optimistic that it would, Help bridge the missing link between the already available infrastructure and academic performance.
Case study Investing in Local Healthcare for our Communities at North Mara We completed the construction Since its renovation at a and renovation of the Nyamwaga cost of over US$600,000 Health Centre in April 2018 and the health centre can treat the facility now plays a critical 60% more patients than before role in the delivery of health care 800 each month thanks to services in the Tarimedistrict.
the wider availability of services.
The facility has also The renovation included a range reduced the distance people of new medical facilities such have to travel to access health as a surgical theatre, mortuary, services to a maximum of maternity ward, consultation rooms five kilometres.
and a drugs dispensary, all of which now benefit around 75,000 residents in the North Mara area.
The new health centre also boasts its own staff housing and sanitary 60% facilities.
Acacia's investment in the Nyamwaga Health Centre means it can treat 60% more patients ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 9
