AUDIT COMMITTEE Activities in 2018 and plans for 2019 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Objective Achieved Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, Andr Falzon skill set and qualification requirements.
Committee chair Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of corporate governance developments.
Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, scope Meetings Percentage of of work, compensation, the findings arising from all external audit work Members attended meetings attended and external auditor performance.
Reviewing Acacias periodic financial reporting.
Andr Falzon Chair 5 100% Rachel English 5 100% Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in financial reporting Steve Lucas 4 80% and regulatory environment.
Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit reports, findings and monitoring related action plans.
Introduction Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation.
I am the Chair of the Committee and a CPA, CA, CGA Canada, with over 30 years of financial and management experience within Reviewing the progress of the annual anti-corruption compliance programme.
During the year, Rachel English and Steve Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting requirements Lucas acted as the other members of the Committee.
Details of under Acacias Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption policies members experience and qualifications are provided as part of and other reports from the Companys compliance function.
the Board of Directors biographies.
Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates as regards the principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight on behalf The composition of the Audit Committee, whose members have of the Board.
a wide range of experience with an emphasis on financial and Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment.
audit committee experience across the extractive industry, meets the enhanced requirements of the 2016 edition of the Review of carrying value of assets, in light of, among other things, ongoing UK Corporate Governance Code and of the revised FRC Audit uncertainty arising from the continuing operational challenges in Tanzania Committee Guidance published during 2016 which became Review of appropriate measures to be taken to preserve cash and to effective during 2017. protect the Companys balance sheet, in light of continuing operational challenges in Tanzania.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least four times a year, and in 2018 we met five times, holding meetings in person In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the and by conference call.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
Financial Officer, the Head of Legal and Compliance, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, members of the Companys finance function and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation.
We also hold individual meetings with Acacias external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and Acacias internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including its risk management framework.
In addition, we receive reports from the Chief Compliance Officer as regards anti-fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance programmes, these being directly related to our oversight of whistleblowing arrangements and related policy reviews.
80 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant issues considered by the Committee in 2018 concentrate revenues recommencing in Q1 2020 and the resumption of production from underground mining at Bulyanhulu in late 2020.
"VAT Impact of mineral concentrate export ban and negotiations refunds were assumed by management to recommence and historic with the Government of Tanzania ""GoT"" carried forward tax losses assumed to continue to be available to The Committee has considered the ongoing impact of the mineral offset against future taxable profits from 1 January 2020. concentrate export ban in Tanzania on Acacia's assets, liabilities and Management considered that, in conducting the review of carrying values cash flows."
The Committee has also considered the status of in accordance with applicable accounting standards as at 31 December negotiations with the GoT, the prospect, timing and final terms of any 2018, the discount rate used should: a reflect the uncertainty around comprehensive negotiated settlement that might be agreed with the the final terms of any comprehensive settlement that might be agreed GoT and approved by the Company, and the possible impact of the or whether settlement will be reached at all, and b best reflect the terms of any such settlement.
potential reduction in value as a result of the proposed 16% free carry Carrying value review interest for the GoT which cannot otherwise be included in calculations Management identified a number of potential triggers for impairment of value at a CGU level conducted on a 100% basis.
Therefore, for the testing of the carrying value of the Companys assets, including the purposes of the carrying value review of the affected CGUs, management ongoing uncertainty surrounding a potential resolution of the disputes used a discount rate of 11% compared to Acacia's calculated weighted with the GoT, the revised Bulyanhulu business model, the updated average cost of capital of 6.5%.
geological models at North Mara and Bulyanhulu, and the fact that In light of these assessments by management, as well as management's Acacia's market capitalisation has been lower than its carrying value assessment of variables such as future commodity prices and timing and during the 2018 reporting period.
As a result, management has approval of future capital and operating expenditure, management undertaken a carrying value review of the Groups affected Cash estimated that the recoverable amounts for each of the CGUs supported Generating Units CGUs, being Bulyanhulu, North Mara and Buzwagi, the carrying value for those assets as at 31 December 2018. based on an assessment of their recoverable value, and long life Accordingly, no impairment charge was considered necessary.
The Committee has reviewed and examined key assumptions used by The determination of recoverable value was based on the higher of value management for impairment testing.
In particular, the Committee has in-use, being the net present value of future cash flows expected to be reviewed and challenged in this context the assessment as to the generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose.
There is no likelihood of a settlement being reached with the GoT, and as to the active market for the CGUs.
Consequently, fair value less costs to terms of such settlement, given that Acacia has not yet received for dispose was derived using discounted cash flow techniques net present review and approval a detailed proposal that has been agreed between value of future expected cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market Barrick and the GoT, and no conclusions can be made by Acacia as to participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose was based on management's whether any particular terms of settlement would be approved by Acacia, best estimates of future selling costs: costs attributable to the disposal in the event that any proposal is received in the future.
In addition, the of a CGU are not considered significant.
Committee has reviewed other assumptions used, such as the long-term For the purpose of carrying value assessments, management based its average gold price, and the discount rate used and the factors relevant to calculation of future cash flows of the affected CGUs by reference to the this selection, such as operating cash cost levels and related factors key terms of the framework announcements by Barrick and the GoT in underpinning relevant mine planning, budgets and forecasts.
Based on Barrick's announcements, and absent any contributions of the external auditors as regards the impairment testing changes in its position in discussions and exchanges with Acacia, Acacia procedures and key assumptions used formed part of the Committees understands that it remains Barrick's belief that it will be able to agree review of these matters.
Following these reviews, the Committee with the GoT a detailed proposal for a comprehensive settlement of the satisfied itself that the process used to ascertain the carrying value of situation, and that this will be in a form that Barrick could recommend to the Companys CGUs had been appropriately reviewed and challenged Acacia for review.
Key assumptions applied by management in these and that the resulting assessments of such carrying value were therefore calculations include a 50% share of future economic benefits for the GoT sufficiently robust for use.
The Committee also reviewed the disclosures in the form of taxes, royalties and a 16% free carry interest in the CGUs, contained in this Annual Report, including the disclosure contained in as well as a US$300 million payment in relation to historical tax claims the notes to the consolidated financial statements relating to the paid in instalments as concentrate sales recommence.
In addition, the sensitivities provided with respect to the CGUs, in order to satisfy itself framework announcements provided for Acacia to contribute certain of the accuracy and suitability of the disclosures so made.
monies to fund specific projects in Tanzania.
With no updated information from Barrick, management had to make a best estimate of what can reasonably be assumed for timing of conclusion of discussions between Barrick and the GoT and an agreement of a proposal to be put to Acacia for review, with consequent timing for the commencement of concentrate sales and potential resumption of underground mining at Bulyanhulu.
Management considered that it is reasonable for review purposes to assume a six month prolongation to the end of H1 2019 of the discussions between Barrick and the GoT, and that in these circumstances there would be a further three to six months delay thereafter for the resumption concentrate sales and exports, with ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 81 Uncertain deferred tax positions Going concern review The Group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year In addition to the matters stated above, all of which are relevant to the tax loss assessments that continue to be in dispute with the Tanzania Boards assessment of Acacias position as a going concern, the Revenue Authority TRA.
The Group also has US$300 million of statement relating to which is provided on page 55, the Committee also provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions, on the basis it is more reviewed other matters relevant to Acacias liquidity, namely the ongoing probable than not that this amount may be paid to settle outstanding availability of net cash balances, mine plans, the cash flow impact of an assessments as part of a broader negotiated settlement with the GoT.
extended concentrate export ban, the potential impacts of any This is based on a review undertaken by the Company in 2017 of its comprehensive settlement with the GoT, including payments relating to position in light of Barricks announcement in October 2017 that Barrick historical tax matters, gold prices and Acacias hedging strategy and had increased its provision with respect to historical uncertain tax policy, capital expenditure and financing plans, and material contingent positions from US$128 million to US$300 million.
liability exposure and various cash optimisation opportunities, the latter also being a focus for the Board.
Management reported to the The Committee has reviewed and examined the key assumptions used by Committee on each of these matters and was questioned accordingly.
In management for the purposes of assessing the deferred tax balances this regard, the Committee has also taken into account the views of the and the provision for uncertain deferred tax.
In particular, the Committee external auditors in order to satisfy itself of the position taken by the has reviewed and challenged in this context the assessment as to the Board as regards to the appropriateness of the going concern likelihood of a settlement being reached with the GoT, and as to the assumption contained in this Annual Report.
terms of such settlement, given that Acacia has not yet received for review and approval a detailed proposal that has been agreed between Risk reviews Barrick and the GoT, and no conclusions can be made by Acacia as to Throughout the year, the Committee has continued to have delegated whether any particular terms of settlement would be approved by Acacia, oversight of certain financial-related principal risks and the Companys in the event that any proposal is received in the future.
Views and risk management framework itself, as a component of internal controls contributions of the external auditors as regards the key assumptions systems generally.
Further information regarding risk management and used by management formed part of the Committees review of these risk governance is provided and the principal risks for which the matters.
Committee retains oversight are identified on pages 30 to 35.
In this regard our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of periodic risk reports Based on this review the Committee concluded that the Company has and the monitoring of trends and development relevant to risk sufficiently provided for any uncertain tax positions.
The Committee is environment, as supported by managements oversight and also satisfied with the suitability of the related disclosures contained in implementation of day to day risk management across our operations.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the amount of deferred tax recognised with respect to losses incurred in previous Fair, balanced and understandable review periods and was comfortable with the amounts recognised.
Once a At the request of the Board, the Committee has also reviewed the formal detailed proposal is received regarding the framework between narrative content of the Annual Report in order to make a Barrick and the GoT, the Company will conduct a further assessment recommendation that the report satisfies the narrative reporting of the potential impact of the arrangements on the Companys historical requirements in that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, tax position.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Indirect tax recoverability business model and strategy.
In this regard the Committee has taken As part of ongoing monitoring and review of taxation matters, the advice from the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant Committee has reviewed the status, recoverability and classification of legal and regulatory framework underpinning this disclosure standard.
the Groups indirect tax receivables relating to VAT charged on imports and the domestic supply of goods and services.
In this regard, the Committee has received reports from management on the status of discussions and negotiations of such matters between management and the TRA.
We have also reviewed managements ongoing calculations of amounts so outstanding, the procedure established to recover refunds and amounts due under the escrow account established to fund refunds due in respect of portions of the receivable, the audit process followed to confirm such refunds, and the overall time frame for the receipt of such refunds against amounts outstanding under the receivable from time to time.
The Committee has also taken into account the views and contributions of the external auditors regarding recoverability and classification of relevant indirect tax receivables.
Based on the foregoing, the Committee has satisfied itself that the Groups indirect tax receivables remain recoverable and appropriately classified in the circumstances and is satisfied with the suitability of the related disclosures contained in this Annual Report.
82 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal and external audit reviews to this, the lead audit partner rotates at least every five years.
The Throughout the year, the Committee received regular reports on matters current lead auditor partner Jonathan Lambert began his tenure for the under review by the internal audit function, and has reviewed such financial year ended 31 December 2014 and has therefore completed his matters and raised questions with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit five years.
Simon Morley, will replace Jonathan Lambert having shadowed accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal audit charter, mandate and him through the 2018 audit.
performance in order to assess ongoing effectiveness, following which Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to the Committee concluded that the internal audit function remains approximately US$0.3 million 2017: approximately US$0.3 million effective and performs in accordance with requirements of the business.
representing 19% of the 2018 audit fees.
Audit related and non-audit We have also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process services provided by the external auditors included their review of the via responses to surveys received from the Chief Financial Officer, Companys half-year report.
Further information on audit and non-audit members of the finance and treasury function, and in particular members fees paid to PwC can be found in Note 10 to the consolidated of the Companys financial reporting team and the Company secretariat.
The survey comprised a range of factors including the following: As a Company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment of Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan any former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence is Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting not undermined.
The Committee has adopted a formal written policy and audit judgements and communication of the same between regarding the recruitment of former employees of the external auditor.
management, the Committee and the external audit team The policy prohibits the hiring of any former member of the external audit team into any financial oversight role or as an officer of the Company for Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional a period of two years following their association with the audit, save in guidance on rotation of lead audit partners instances where the appointment has been pre-approved by the Qualifications, expertise, resources and the external auditors own Committee.
Between meetings, the Committee Chair has delegated assessment of their quality control procedures authority to deal with such appointments at his discretion.
Any such interim approval must be ratified at the next meeting of the Committee.
The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of In addition, any employee of the external auditor who accepts the continued appointment of  LLP PwC as employment with the Acacia Group whatever the role must cease all external auditors.
Based on this assessment, the Committee audit activity immediately and tender their resignation to the audit firm.
concluded that the external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming AGM in light of this assessment.
As regards external audit tender considerations, PwC have acted as external auditors for the Group since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2010.
The Committee has reviewed the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Order, which requires mandatory tendering of audit services every ten years by FTSE 350 companies, and determined that an audit tender will be required in respect of the 2020 financial year at the earliest.
We are therefore compliant with the requirements of the Order.
We intend to conduct our first audit tender in 2019.
With respect to non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the Committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a quarterly basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate provide prior approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the external auditors to ensure that any such work can be conducted without adversely affecting auditor independence.
The Committee also reviews the proposed provision of non-audit services against the backdrop of UK and EU prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services to ensure the Company complies with all restrictions and requirements applicable to it.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence, objectivity or violate any professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which do not impair their independence, and where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Committee.
For example, this may include the conduct of certain matters relating to Tanzanian taxation assessments, given PwC's expertise and knowledge locally in Tanzania and their understanding of the historical issues.
The Companys procedures require that any non-audit services proposed to be provided by the auditors be supported by a justification as to why the appointment of the external auditors to provide the services is in the Companys best interests, and how auditor independence would be safeguarded in the specific context of the proposed services.
In addition ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 83 EHS&S COMMITTEE Activities in 2018 and plans for 2019 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Objective Achieved Reviewing Committee composition, based on succession planning, skill set Rachel English and qualification requirements.
Committee chair Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment.
Meetings Percentage of Reviewing Group-wide EHS&S and SC strategies and priorities, Members attended meetings attended performance, metrics, trends and incident reports.
Overseeing the development of our SC strategy and programme as a driving Rachel English Chair 4 100% component of our approach to strategic social investment.
Andr Falzon 4 100% Reviewing key risks in the Groups operating environment regarding EHS&S Peter Geleta 4 100% and SC.
Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the EHS&S and SC operating environment.
Introduction Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and safety targets and systems.
I am the Chair of the Committee, with extensive experience of corporate social responsibility and Sustainable Communities from Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas in the context of performance and strategic reviews, as relevant to EHS&S and SC matters.
my work with the World Bank Group, as well as Helios Social Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates regarding the Enterprise, which I founded to develop renewable energy access principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight on behalf of projects in rural sub-Saharan Africa.
Peter Geleta was appointed to the Board.
the Committee upon becoming Interim Chief Executive Officer with Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment.
Details of members experience and qualifications are provided as In light of the tragic fatality suffered by an operator of one of our contractors part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference in a vehicle-related accident at North Mara during the first half of 2018, the require us to meet at least twice a year.
Committee has monitored the investigation into the incident, has reviewed Those involved in the Companys environmental, health, safety and and challenged the findings from that investigation, and has monitored the security EHS&S and Sustainable Communities SC functions also implementation of the recommendations arising from that investigation.
The attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation, in Group continues to target zero injuries, and a key role of the Committee is to order to report on EHS&S SC developments and performance.
ensure that Acacia's culture and operational procedures create an Key responsibilities environment in which this target is achieved.
Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above activities that are of core importance to Acacias social licence matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
These include Acacias strategy and policy on management and oversight perspective, the specific EHS&S-related principal environmental, occupational health and safety, SC and security risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight are identified as part of matters: reviewing the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and the principal risks and uncertainties table on pages 32 to 35.
In this regard controls: and generally overseeing managements monitoring and our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of periodic risk reports and the evaluation of emerging SC issues to assess the potential impact monitoring of trends and developments relevant to risk environment, as on Acacias business and operations.
In addition, we also have supported by managements oversight and implementation of day-to-day risk delegated oversight of human rights from the Board, in line with management across our operations.
similar oversight responsibilities assumed by EHS&S Committees We have not changed our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility or their equivalent in peers across the mining industry.
notwithstanding the ongoing challenges faced in our operating environment and the continuation of reduced operations at Bulyanhulu during 2018.
Acacia recognises the important role that it plays in supporting local communities around its existing operations.
Hence the EHS&S Committee takes great care to ensure that the SC programme is appropriately shaped, implemented and monitored.
During this year the Committee has also been involved in establishing the Group's initiative to increase further our commitment to sourcing locally first, where viable.
We plan to increase our annual spend on goods and services with Tanzanian-owned businesses by 10% during the first half of 2019 compared with the equivalent period in 2018.
There would be a further significant increase in local spend in the event that an appropriate resolution to the disputes with the GoT is achieved, so as to allow for the resumption of full operations at Bulyanhulu.
The Committee will continue to monitor these activities during 2019 to ensure that they are appropriately executed.
84 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Objective Achieved Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment.
Providing oversight and review of the Boards and Board Committees annual performance evaluation and overseeing the adoption of recommendations for 2019 work plans.
An overview of the 2018 performance evaluation is provided on page 78.
Reviewing and mapping the skills brought by Board members, in light of Rachel English anticipated departures, to assist with succession planning.
Committee chair Recommending the appointment of Rachel English as Interim Chair following the resignation of Kelvin Dushnisky as Chair.
Reviewing periodic training and development requirements for Directors.
Meetings Percentage of 1 Members attended meetings attended 2 In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above Rachel English Chair 2 100% matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
2 Kelvin Dushnisky 1 100% An overview of the succession planning activities overseen by the Committee Michael Kenyon 3 100% is provided on pages 17 and 70.
As noted, an update on these activities will Steve Lucas 2 67% be provided prior to the 2019 AGM.
1 B ased on the number of meetings held during the relevant individuals period of membership of the Committee.
During early 2019 the terms of reference for the various board committees 2 K elvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Committee upon his resignation from and the Group's various corporate governance policies have been reviewed the Board with effect from 31 August 2018.
With effect from 1 September and, where appropriate, revised to reflect the requirements of the 2018 2018, Rachel English was appointed to the Committee in the role of Chair.
edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies from 1 January 2019, as well as other recent trends and developments in corporate Introduction governance best practice.
I act as Chair of the Nomination & Governance Committee since As a Group we continue to base all recruitment on the premise that we strive my appointment as Interim Chair of the Board with effect from to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and non- 1September 2018.
Michael Kenyon and Steve Lucas act as the traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and other members of the Committee.
We recognise the value of a diverse Details of members experience and qualifications are provided as workforce and the creative potential that individuals of different backgrounds part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference and abilities bring to their work, to increase and leverage diversity of thought, require us to meet at least twice a year.
In 2018 we met three enhance our risk management capability, drive innovation and remove barriers times.
The Chief Executive Officer and members from the Company to success.
In connection with our current process for identifying and secretariat also attend Committee meetings by invitation to appointing new non-executive directors as part of our sucession planning discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
activities, one of the criteria on which the selection of the successful candidates will be based is the extent to which the candidate will Key responsibilities enhance the diversity of the Board.
We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and We have employment policies in place which demonstrate the Groups composition of the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board commitment to equal opportunities for all employees, workers and applicants appointments and succession planning requirements.
We also for employment, and to ensuring that they will not be subject to any have primary responsibility for making recommendations to the discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation on the grounds of age, Board on the composition of Board Committees and we manage colour, disability, ethnic or national origin, gender, gender expression, gender recommendations for the retirement and replacement of Directors.
identity, marital status, pregnancy, race, religion or belief, or sexual orientation.
In addition, our remit of responsibilities includes delegated These policies are supported by appropriate harassment, disciplinary and authority from the Board to oversee and review Acacias corporate grievance procedures.
governance policies and procedures, including independence reviews and the monitoring of Company procedures for the Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights contained in management of actual and or potential conflicts of interest.
the Relationship Agreement, Board appointments are made on the basis of pre-determined job descriptions which include, as regards independent Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time commitment requirements.
From a Activities in 2018 and plans for 2019 recruitment and candidate search perspective, our existing Directors provide access to a wide network of potential Board appointment candidates, Our activities during the year were wide ranging, particularly within the extractive industry, as a result of their collective and comprised the following in particular: experience and standing within the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we look to retain external search consultants to assist us in identifying potential Objective Achieved candidates for Board positions, when appropriate to do so.
We did not make Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set any new appointments to the Board in 2018, however, Heidrick & Struggles and qualification requirements.
have been engaged by the Company to assist with the process for appointing Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of a permanent Chair and the process for appointing new independent nonongoing developments within the Companys business and operating executive directors.
Heidrick & Struggles have no other connection with Acacia environment and developments within a corporate governance context.
or with any of the Directors.
In addition, we have satisfied ourselves that Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context of the Companys strategic and business objectives.
Heidrick & Struggles take active steps as part of their process to identify a diverse range of credible candidates.
Reviewing the Companys core corporate governance policies in line with best practice developments and recent trend developments.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 85 INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE Activities in 2018 and plans for 2019 Our activities during the year included the following in particular: Objective Achieved Monitoring the nature and extent of engagement by the Company in the discussions between Barrick and the GoT.
Reviewing the disclosure of information by the Company to Barrick, having Michael Kenyon due regard, among other things, to the Relationship Agreement between the Committee chair Company and Barrick.
Reviewing the Companys strategy in connection with the operational challenges in Tanzania, including strategies and actions that may be appropriate in light of these challenges.
Meetings Percentage of Communicating with Barrick regarding the discussions between Barrick Members attended meetings attended and the GoT.
Michael Kenyon Chair 18 100% Monitoring the need for disclosure to the market in connection with Rachel English 17 94% developments in the discussions of which the Company becomes aware.
Andr Falzon 18 100% Communication with shareholders regarding the discussions between Barrick and the GoT.
Steve Lucas 15 83% Monitoring ongoing compliance with the independence requirements of the Listing Rules and other applicable regulations in connection with the Introduction discussions between Barrick and the GoT.
"The Independent Committee was formed by the Board during 2017 as a result Assessing the implications of the announced merger between Barrick and of the commencement of discussions between Barrick and the Government of Randgold Resources Limited with respect to Acacia's rights under the Tanzania ""GoT"" regarding the issues impacting the Companys operations in Relationship Agreement between the Company and Barrick."
The Committee comprises the Independent Directors of the Company.
Details In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above of members experience and qualifications are provided as part of the Board matters.
As and when any detailed proposal is provided to the Company for a of Directors biographies.
Meetings are held at such frequency as I consider comprehensive resolution of the Company's disputes with the GoT, the appropriate.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of senior management and external Independent Committee will be responsible for reviewing and evaluating these advisers may also attend Committee meetings by invitation to discuss matters arrangements, including the terms of any document or agreement proposed to within our remit of responsibilities.
be entered into by the Company.
We will then provide a recommendation to the full Board of Acacia on the appropriate course of action.
In considering its Key responsibilities strategy, the Committee will consider all of Acacia's alternatives including its We are responsible for overseeing all aspects and implications of the rights under its existing contracts with the GoT, the existing contractual discussions between Barrick and the GoT, and any related proposals.
international arbitration claims and proceedings brought in respect of the This includes responsibility for ensuring that due consideration is taken of Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines, and Acacia's position with respect to pursuing Acacias interests with regard to Barricks discussions with the GoT and any arbitration claims against the GoT under the bilateral investment treaty related proposals.
In discharging its role, the Committee must ensure that due consideration is given to the Boards overall responsibility to promote the between the United Republic of Tanzania and the United Kingdom.
long-term success of Acacia, and the responsibility of the Board to exercise its independent judgement in the context of Barricks discussions with the Any proposal for a resolution of Acacia's disputes with the GoT will require GoT and any related proposals.
The Committee reports back to the Board and shall make recommendations as it sees fit as regards any deliberations and decisions that the Board may consider in the context of this process.
The Committee is entitled to communicate directly with third parties including Barrick or any of their advisers.
In my role as Chair, I provide leadership to the Committee and preside over Committee meetings.
I also facilitate the flow of information to and from the Committee and foster an environment in which Committee members may ask questions and express their viewpoints.
My responsibilities also include reporting to the Board with respect to the significant activities of the Committee and any recommendations of the Committee.
During 2018, the Committee considered the implications of the merger between Barrick and Randgold with respect to Acacia's rights under the Relationship Agreement between Acacia and Barrick.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Barrick has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the exploration of gold or silver in Africa, or acquire, whether through an asset purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in Africa that competes with Acacia, without giving Acacia the option to exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of Acacia the Pre-emption Right.
Randgold had a portfolio of gold mines and exploration programmes in West and Central Africa.
Accordingly, the transaction triggered the Pre-emption Right in favour of Acacia under the Relationship Agreement.
After consideration by the Committee and consultation with its advisers, Acacia concluded that it would not exercise its Pre-emption Right with respect to Randgold.
Acacia has reserved its position regarding the exercise of the Pre-emption Right with respect to any future proposals by Barrick to acquire or to increase any African gold or silver mining or exploration rights, irrespective of scale, that Barrick might consider in the future and in respect of which Acacia's Pre-emption Rightapplies.
86 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
