CHAIR'S STATEMENT New Interim Chair Rachel English You were appointed as Interim Chair on 1 How have you and the Board supported the September 2018.
What have the Boards and Groups relationships with key stakeholders?
your priorities been since your appointment?
Throughout the year, the Board continued to I was delighted to be appointed as Acacias be focused on the Group's relationships with all Interim Chair following Kelvin Dushniskys of its stakeholders: including our employees, departure.
On behalf of the Directors I would suppliers and local communities, as well as like to thank Kelvin for his contribution to the our shareholders.
It has been a great pleasure Company during his five-year tenure as Chair.
"meeting our people in my visits to Acacia's Rachel English The ongoing challenges facing our operations operations in 2018, and to see their Interim Chair of the Board since the Government of Tanzania ""GoTs"" commitment, professionalism and strength decision in March 2017 to ban the export of despite the challenges we face in our operating gold concentrate have continued to provide a environment."
It has also been a pleasure to I was delighted to be appointed backdrop to many of the Board's discussions meet shareholders in my capacity as Chair.
as Acacia's Interim Chair on during 2018.
The operating environment We continue to demonstrate our long-term deteriorated further in October last year with commitment to Tanzania, contributing over 1September 2018.
The ongoing criminal charges brought by the GoT against US$127 million in taxes and royalties to challenges facing our operations three Group companies as well as three national and regional governments, spending have continued to provide a current Acacia Group employees and a former over US$273 million with local suppliers in backdrop to many of the Boards employee, three of whom continue to be held Tanzania, maintaining a rate of 96.2% local under non-bailable offences.
My priorities since employees and investing nearly US$9 million in discussions during 2018.
My my appointment have included ensuring that our Sustainable Communities initiatives, further priorities since my appointment the Company pursues all available avenues details of which are set out on page 58 and 59. have included ensuring that the of engagement to seek to resolve these In the event that an appropriate resolution to Company pursues all available challenges, advancing plans for orderly Board the disputes with the GoT is achieved allowing a succession and continuing our strong focus resumption of full operations at Bulyanhulu, avenues of engagement to resolve on corporate governance.
there would be a further significant increase in these challenges as well as advancing local taxes and royalties, and expenditure with plans for orderly Board succession local suppliers.
and continuing our strong focus on corporate governance.
I would Acacia formed an Independent Committee of like to thank our shareholders the Board in 2017.
What have been the main and employees for their resilience challenges which the Independent Committee and commitment to Acacia has had to address this year?
From a strategic perspective the Board, through the Independent Committee, has monitored closely the ongoing discussions between Barrick and the GoT, while continuing to protect our assets via the arbitration process pending the outcome of the Barrick discussions.
16 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance in focus: Ensuring the best Please can you talk through the main You didnt pay a dividend again in 2018 changes in the Board during the year and any for the second year in a row, please can interests of all further changes you envisage regarding Board you explain why?
shareholders The Board has not recommended a The main change in the Board this past dividend for 2018 as a result of the 1 year was my appointment as Interim Chair in continuing inability to export gold September following Kelvin Dushniskys concentrate following the imposition of departure.
Following my appointment, and with the concentrate export ban in 2017, the the Nominations and Governance Committee, uncertainty around the ongoing resolution we have completed an analysis of the skills of the Companys dispute with the GoT brought by Board members to ensure that and the need to safeguard liquidity these reflect an appropriate range and balance requirements.
The operating environment 1 of capabilities, as part of our wider review and in Tanzania remains challenging and, discussion on Board effectiveness, Board while there remains such an uncertainty composition and succession planning.
As a regarding future resolution of the situation, result of this review, the Board identified the the Board did not consider it prudent to need to appoint a permanent Chair, further declare a dividend.
Independent Non-Executive Directors, 4 including one with a strong background in technical mining, and one with strong financial experience to address Audit Committee succession planning requirements.
Skills and Board composition What do you think are the main challenges profile requirements for each role, against Executive Director 1 facing the Board in 2019?
which various candidates could be assessed, Non-Executive Director 1 have been prepared.
One of the criteria on Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 which the selection of the successful The Board remains focused on ensuring Board skills candidates will be based is the extent to that the Company is able to achieve Geology 1 which the candidate will enhance the diversity African and Regional Affairs 1 a full and comprehensive resolution to its of the Board.
Financial 4 disputes with the GoT, that Acacia and its The succession planning process is ongoing, businesses and people remain safe and and we will provide a further update prior to secure in the meanwhile, and that our plans Member Specialty Nationality the 2019 AGM.
At present, we have not are optimised for the resumption of full Rachel English Finance UK received any indications of Barrick's intentions operations at Bulyanhulu as and when our Interim Chair for nominating additional directors to the disputes with the GoT can be resolved.
In Board, as is their right under the Relationship Michael Kenyon Geology Canada the meantime, I would like to thank our Agreement between Acacia and Barrick.
shareholders and employees for their Steve Lucas Finance UK We will continue to engage with Barrick resilience and commitment to Acacia Andre Falzon Finance Canada on this as part of our overall Board throughout the year.
This is particularly the Stephen Galbraith Finance UK composition assessments.
case for our employees who have shown Peter Geleta African and South Africa outstanding commitment to performance Regional irrespective of the challenges they have Affairs faced in the operating environment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 17
