OTHER INFORMATION The Companies Act 2006 requires Acacias Directors to prepare a For 2018, we have calculated Acacias Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Directors Report for the financial year under review.
The UKLAs Listing footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions.
2 Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules also require Acacia to make certain other disclosures.
The information contained Percentage Year-on-year on pages 102 to 105 inclusive together with all other information in the Total tonnes of total percentage, of CO e emissions % change % Annual Report which has been specifically incorporated into these 2 pages by reference constitutes Acacias Directors Report.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Legal form of the Company Acacia is a public listed company incorporated and domiciled in the Scope 1 emissions127,123 189,32172 76 -4 United Kingdom with the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited Scope 2 emissions 49,816 59,791 28 24 4 business activities itself and trades principally through its subsidiaries Total176,939 249,112 100 100 and subsidiary undertakings in various jurisdictions.
Further information Total CO e emissions for 2018 amounted to 176,939 tonnes CO e, a 29% decrease on as regards Acacias subsidiaries is provided in Note 1 to the 2 2 2017 249,112 tonnes CO e. The decrease is principally due to the ongoing reduction in 2 consolidated financial statements on page 124. operational activity at Bulyanhulu but with the static power stabilising station at Bulyanhulu also enhancing the utilisation of low carbon electricity from the national grid.
Strategic report CO e emission intensity for the year was 0.0191 per tonne of ore milled, this being a 2 33% decrease on 2017 0.0284.
Further information as regards our GHG emissions The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as regards the production reporting for 2018 is provided on page 62 and 63. of a strategic report are satisfied in the Strategic Report contained at pages 10 to 35.
The Strategic Report provides an overview of the Directors interests development and performance of Acacias business for the financial Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in year ended 31 December 2018 and also provides information relevant Acacias Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments to likely future developments in the business.
are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure Guidance Employee share schemes and Transparency Rules, the required content for the management report Details of Acacias employee share plans and long-term incentive plans as referred to in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Employee diversity Directors An overview of female representation percentages across our workforce The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December is provided on page 64.
In addition, the total breakdown of male and 2018 are provided on pages 72 and 73.
An overview of Directors female employees as at 31 December 2018 was as follows: appointments, by reference to current terms under appointment letters, is provided on page 94.
Details of Director re-election requirements are Female Male provided on page 75.
Directors indemnity and insurance Board of Directors 1 5 In accordance with Acacias Articles of Association and to the extent Executive Leadership Team 0 3 permitted by the Companies Act 2006, Acacia may indemnify its Directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result Other employees 146 1,185 of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be An overview of the Group's workforce is provided on page 64.
96.2% of categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity provision under the our workforce is Tanzanian.
The remainder of the workforce is nonCompanies Act 2006.
Acacia has adopted Directors and Officers Tanzanian.
Our non-Tanzanian workforce comprises individuals with liability insurance, which provides insurance cover for any claim brought nationalities from across the world including: Australia, Burkina Faso, against Directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their Canada, Ghana, Mali, New Zealand, South Africa, the United Kingdom positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising and the United States of America.
from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
Dividends As a result of ongoing cash flow impact of the ban of exporting Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions data for period 1 January concentrate from Tanzania, no interim dividend was paid during 2018, 2018 to 31 December 2018 unaudited in line with Acacias cash flow based dividend policy.
The Board will According to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council not recommend the payment of any final dividend for the year ended for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG 31 December 2018. emissions are classified as either direct or indirect, and from there are divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct Share capital GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled As at 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital by the reporting entity.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are comprised 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting a consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at rights of all Acacia Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share sources owned or controlled by another entity.
Each scope is classified carrying the right to one vote.
The Company holds no Ordinary Shares as follows: in Treasury and does not have any class of share other than its Ordinary Shares.
Further details on voting rights and rights relating to the transfer Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or of shares are provided overleaf.
Acacias Articles of Association provide the authority for the Company to Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in consumption of electricity from TANESCO.
the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2018 AGM, the Company activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
obtained shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 102 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT 41,005,550 of its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10% of the issued Relationship Agreement: see page 77 of this report for an overview share capital at the time of approval.
The authority was granted subject of the Relationship Agreement.
In addition to the Relationship to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule Agreement, Acacia entered into a Services Agreement with Barrick requirements and expires at the forthcoming AGM.
The authority was in February 2010 as part of arrangements for the IPO, under which not exercised during the year under review.
An equivalent shareholder Barrick provides certain services to the Acacia Group for the ongoing resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the operation of the business.
These services include support for forthcoming AGM.
Details of Acacias issued share capital and any information technology, technical services and other administrative movements during the year are included in Note 24 to the consolidated and corporate functions.
The agreements termination events include financial statements on page 150. a basis for either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the event of specified breaches of the agreement, Major shareholdings insolvency, analogous events or a change of control.
Whilst this The following persons as at 31 December 2018 are interested in the agreement remains in force, limited services are provided under it following percentages of Acacias issued Ordinary Share capital: and no services provided are deemed to be material or significant.
Credit Agreement: an overview of the Credit Agreement between, Number of Percentage of issued among others, the Company and Citibank International plc as shares share capital % administrative agent, is provided in Note 9 to the consolidated Name financial statements on page 142.
A change of control is a mandatory Barrick International 179,609,530 43.80 prepayment event under the Credit Agreement and, subject to certain 1 Barbados Corp exceptions, a termination event.
1 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd 45,258,970 11.04 Acacias mining concessions are held by its operating companies in 1 PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating Blackrock Inc 24,546,326 5.99 companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals Total 286,793,276 69.94 in Tanzania.
"In addition, each Acacia Group operating mine has a Mineral Development Agreement MDA with the Government of Tanzania ""GoT""."
1 Members of the Barrick Group.
The material terms and conditions of each MDA are substantially similar As at 28 March 2019, we have not been notified of any changes to the and include provisions governing royalty payments, taxes and other interests of major shareholders from those notified above.
charges, banking arrangements, local procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDAs also provide for no expropriation or Relationship with major shareholder nationalisation rights.
Broadly, these rights provide that the GoT will not An overview of Acacias relationship with Barrick and the Relationship nationalise or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of the Acacia Agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing Groups interest in the applicable special mining licences or any of its relationship is provided on page 77. property or its contractors or subcontractors property used for the Political and charitable donations purpose of mining operations or in relation to the applicable special Acacia does not make political donations.
Information as regards mining licences, without adequate compensation.
Each MDA is governed Acacias social and community contributions for the year is provided by Tanzanian law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs is as part of our Sustainability and Financial reviews.
of significant importance to Acacias business, given the agreements overall importance to our operations.
Acacia is carefully monitoring its Information required by LR 9.8.
4R rights under relevant MDAs in the context of the legislative changes and There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save tax assessments made in Tanzania during 2017 and 2018 and both in respect of LR 9.8.
4R 10 Contracts of significance with controlling Bulyanhulu Gold Mine and Pangea Minerals Limited have commenced shareholder in which director interested, LR 9.8.
4R 11 Contracts for arbitrations to safeguard their rights under their respective MDAs in light the provision of services by a controlling shareholder and LR 9.8.
Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder which can be found on page 77 of this Annual Report.
Details of interest capitalised by the Employment contracts for the Interim CEO and the CFO contain change of Group are provided in Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements control provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in on page 141. the event of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in the 12 months following a change of control.
Any payment made under Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and these arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment financial risk management under applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special Acacias policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made under the instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, Companys Stock Option Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in the event of a takeover, found in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements contained reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Compensation on pages 156 and 162 of this Annual Report.
All such information is Committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and to form part of this Directors Report.
circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable Material agreements containing change of control provisions performance conditions.
When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or significant agreements with Directors Controlling Shareholders options, the Compensation Committee may proportionately reduce the The Directors consider the following as material agreements award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day arrangements for Acacias business and operations, which alter of the performance period and the date of the change of control.
or terminate on a change of control of Acacia and or significant Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards agreements with Directors Barrick: where appropriate.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 103 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Going concern Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by The Directors statement on going concern is contained on page 55 of the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares this Annual Report.
or debentures of the Company, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of Corporate governance compliance a share on which the Company has a lien and may apply the same The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the towards satisfaction of the monies payable to the Company in UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is set out in the respect of that share.
corporate governance report on pages 75 to 79 of this Annual Report.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend All information detailed in the corporate governance statement is or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed be withheld, and the Company shall have no obligation to pay interest to form part of this Directors Report.
on it, if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the Articles of Association issued share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special appearing to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a resolution of the shareholders.
Section 793 notice and has failed to supply the information required by such notice within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder shall not be Shareholder rights entitled to elect to receive shares instead of a dividend.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained in the Articles of Association are as follows: The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute Voting rights Acacia a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment shall Articles of Association for any class of share, at any general meeting be forfeited and shall revert to Acacia.
every member who is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of hands, have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy Transfer of shares shall, on a poll, have one vote for each share of which he or she is the Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or holder.
A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of show of hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the of the Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chair: by Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed at least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting: by a by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer of a share member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting, either The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any in person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form membership in relation to a shareholders meeting, unless and until all or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: calls or other sums presently payable by him or her in respect of that it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: share with interest and expenses if any have been paid to the Company or if he she or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has it is in respect of only one class of shares: been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide the required information within 14 days from the service of the notice.
it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: Dividend rights it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall be the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on declared by Ordinary Shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock the amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from good faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that taking place on an open and proper basis.
they may suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
Except as Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be interested be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 shares in shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and the the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not dividend accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the personally in default as regards supplying the information required and date on which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer for registration.
104 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Division of assets on a winding up shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of shares up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of the in connection with a rights issue.
In such circumstances Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash the liquidator may value any assets and determine how the division pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or of shareholder.
Subject to certain requirements, the liquidator may also b otherwise up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 vest any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys total issued the shareholders, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept any Ordinary Share capital at the time of passing the resolution.
assets on which there is a liability.
These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period Variation of rights and will expire on the date of the 2019 AGM.
Equivalent resolutions If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at of different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in the forthcoming AGM.
The resolution sought as regards pre-emption such manner if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the right disapplication reflects the requirements of the Pre-Emption absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing of the Groups revised Statement of Principles that provide for certain holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued non-pre-emptive allocations in the context of acquisitions and shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed specified capital investments.
at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly convened and held.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director Powers of Directors by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary Managing the business resolution.
The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as Acacias business is managed by the Board, and the Articles of an additional Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election Association permit the Board to exercise all of the Companys powers by the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where Board to manage the business is subject to any limitations imposed by a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, the Companies Act, the Articles of Association or any directions given or is persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters by special resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of The Articles contain an express authority for the appointment of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
Barricks rights to appoint Directors Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to are summarised on page 77 Additional information regarding Director delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable re-election requirements is provided on page 75 as part of the corporate by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions governance report.
The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate Related party transactions powers and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year Borrowing powers are contained in Note 35 on page 161 of the consolidated Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and any financial statements.
other applicable law, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Post-balance sheet events Company to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital or any Group since the year-end are contained in Note 37 on page 163 of the part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, whether consolidated financial statements.
Such information is incorporated outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of into this Directors Report and is deemed to be part of it.
Acacia or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted total equity, calculated in accordance Audit information with the procedure contained in the Articles of Association.
Borrowings Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, in excess of this amount require prior shareholder approval.
there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each New issues of shares Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
relating to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication of pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Auditors Company in general meeting regarding the same, the Directors may The Companys auditors are  LLP PwC.
allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options A resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times forthcoming AGM.
Refer to page 112 as part of the consolidated financial and on such terms as they think appropriate.
statements for the Independent Auditors report on such statements.
Acacias shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2018 AGM: The Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition to this, the Directors were also granted authority to allot additional new ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 105
