OUR STRATEGY Desired outcomes Our business Create value and cash flow by operating Strive to ensure that the work environment profitable mines and reasonably managing remains safe for everyone and that we risks.
constantly improve our safety performance.
Operate as a partner for our host countries Continue to provide our Discovery group the best opportunity to discover our next mines.
to ensure shared value for their people.
Desired outcomes Our people Identify, attract and retain talent.
Our culture is underpinned by our Acacia Support and develop our people for the Behaviours that are supported by a set benefit of the business and the country's of tools and systems introduced in our socio-economic goals.
Tufanikiwe Pamoja Together We Succeed and Rainbow Leadership Programmes.
Ensure our assets are increasingly led and operated by national employees.
Our goal is to have every person understand the work of their role and to be operating to Creation of a high-performance culture their potential with a clear understanding of where our people are held accountable, their performance and development.
but are given the tools to succeed.
Desired outcomes Our relationships Build the trust of host governments, Aim to be pro-active in our relationships communities and other stakeholders by with all stakeholders to enable us to develop forming partnerships and being responsible the appropriate support for our business and transparent in our actions.
and become a valued driver for economic development in our host countries.
Develop a reputation as a credible business and trustworthy mining partner Contribute to development priorities that supports local stakeholders and is of our host governments through an attractive investor.
aligning our social investments with national efforts.
24 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic pathways Key drivers Priorities for 2019 Our business Further optimise the efficiency of Bulyanhulu Optimisation Study: Development Planning focused on sustainable cash flow our operations with a strong focus of a business case for the resumption of a new and delivering shared value from our assets.
on cost discipline optimised Bulyanhulu mine, in the scenario that Allocating capital effectively.
the concentrate ban is lifted.
Complete the Bulyanhulu Decentralised operations minimal central Nyabirama life extension North Mara : Optimisation Study systems.
Exploration development with the aim of developing Continue to demonstrate life of mine an underground mine at Nyabirama.
Clear metrics to provide key drivers of extension at North Mara performance.
Supply Chain Optimisation: Maximise efficiencies Transition key business functions and reduce costs across our Focus on value-add activities.
intoTanzania Asset Reliability Optimisation: Create standardised best practice Asset Management strategies and processes across all three sites.
Exploration Portfolio Optimisation: Enabling the discovery of our next mines.
Strategic pathways Key drivers Priorities for 2019 Our people Continue to improve TRIFR towards I-People Project: Implementation of a fully Attract and retain our talent.
goal of zero injuries automated human resources information system.
Train and develop so that people can be their best.
Train and develop our people to Organisational Design Project: Development increase ratio of Tanzanians in Drive performance through the Accountable of an efficient and effective organisation structure Management System AMS.
management positions to support our Company Strategy.
Maintain high standards of technical expertise.
Workforce planning for potential Talent Management System: Design and implementation of a talent management programme resumption of underground mining and accompanying processes that enable the atBulyanhulu Company to attract and retain talent.
Strategic pathways Key drivers Priorities for 2019 Our relationships Strengthen relationships with External Relationship Management: Build strong Create shared stakeholder benefit by working in host governments and trusting relationships that support a social partnership with host governments, local licence to operate and a better business communities and other partners.
Explore and support sustainable and environment.
long-term solutions to our disputes Seek to form and grow strong local relationships.
Reputation Management: Re-establish our with the GoT.
Support local economic advancement and national relationships and reputation in Tanzania.
Implementation of our Sustainable Local Content Project: Development of our local Communities strategy and Manage non-technical risks effectively.
supply chain and increased local employment in development of newly-formed the workforce.
Monitoring and evaluation: measure the impact Sustainable Community Reference of our efforts using clear metrics.
NM Resetting Relationships ASM Land : Groups at all three mines.
Improve our relationships with host communities Progress local content plans and and local government authorities in support of our social licence and a secure operating environment.
increase spend percentage with Tanzanian-owned businesses Sustainable Communities Projects: To contribute to the development of sustainable communities Further reduce intruder numbers and that enjoy a thriving local economy, have access to community grievances at North Mara.
social infrastructure and live in safe, inclusive and equitable surrounding communities.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 25
