Strategic Report How We Do It Our Strategy We have a clear strategy to achieve our goal of building profitable and sustainable business operations for the long-term.
2018 Our strategy is simple: to continue to progress in the UK car insurance market while taking what we do well to new markets and products: keep doing what were doing, and do it better year after year.
David Stevens, CBE Group Chief Executive Officer Investing in our Core Sustained Competitive Advantage OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Maintain our focus on efficient claims management Maintain strong performance of our UK Insurance business.
and pricing to underwrite profitable business, a cost Respond to market conditions through effective pricing conscious culture and great customer service.
and growing at the right time.
Continue to be an efficient business with a focus on expenses and costs.
Continued Growth OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Grow profitably our UK private Motor Continue to take advantage of growth and Household insurance operations.
opportunities in UK Motor and Household.
Focus on customer retention by putting customers at the front of all that we do.
Continued Development OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Maximise the value of our core business and Identify and develop new products for customers lay the foundation for future growth.
Take advantage of new technologies to improve our customers' experience.
18 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2008 Our strategy is simple: continue our profitable growth in the UK and take what we know and do well and do it elsewhere.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE Admiral Co-Founder Investing in our Future Price Comparison OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Develop websites that allow consumers to Continue to develop and grow a multi-product compare a range of general insurance, strategy in Europe and beyond.
financial services and other products.
Continue to provide a platform that attracts customers and improves the customer experience.
International Insurance OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Develop profitable, growing, sustainable Pursue our path towards long term value insurance businesses that mirror the UK model.
creation in Europe and the US.
In the US, continue to drive towards a lower expense ratio and higher retention customers.
UK New Products OBJECTIVE 2019 FOCUS Develop a competitive advantage Develop Admiral Loans and offer UK customers better in products beyond insurance.
products and a better online buying experience.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
