David Stevens & A Q with David, Cristina, Milena and Geraint Our people are shareholders in the business, and are highly motivated to improve processes, better serve customers, as well as maintain a culture of cost efficiency.
which contributes to strong performance What happened with UK motor The internal model is taking longer and a more rational approach.
However, Q market pricing in 2018 and what is Q than expected can you provide there is still a large degree of inefficiency the outlook for 2019 - do you expect a an update on why and when you expect in the market as a whole which allows for turn in the cycle?
to finalise and move to your target opportunity to disrupt and grow.
Cristina: The 2018 motor pricing competitors grow, Admiral does not rest A outlook was influenced by uncertainty Geraint: One of the key objectives of on our laurels we are always challenging on the Civil Liability Bill as well as higher A using our own model is to calculate a ourselves to find ways to improve, innovate than expected claims inflation, particularly capital requirement that better reflects and better serve our customers.
in the latter part of the year.
The Civil Admirals risk profile than the standard Liability Bill gained Royal Assent in model allows for.
Thanks to the huge efforts The Admiral MultiCover proposition allows December 2018, providing increased of our team, we made good progress customers to purchase multiple insurance certainty for a change in the Ogden rate over the past year but we need to further products for their household in one go during 2019. enhance our application before formally this allows for a more seamless customer submitting it to the regulator.
The continued journey, and generally optimal price as they After a decrease in market prices in the growth of the Group and additional add more products.
Hence, customers get a first half, we saw prices turning in the complexity is also leading us to reconsider discount and want to stay with us for longer.
second half of the year as a result of claims the model scope, potentially bringing more inflation.
These price increases are likely Admiral continues to strengthen its business beyond purely UK motor within it.
to continue into 2019 assuming current underwriting advantage through market conditions.
Admiral followed our improvements in pricing and analytics, Therefore we wont make a formal disciplined underwriting approach and kept and pursuing market-leading claims application in 2019 and will possibly not rates flat in the first half of 2018, and then management practices.
Our Claims teams submit it in 2020.
We will update further in increased price ahead of the market in the are encouraged to innovate through a test due course when we have greater certainty second half of 2018, which led to a slower and learn approach, making incremental around the timing.
growth rate in the second half.
Elephant sharpened its focus Our people are shareholders in the business, How will Admiral maintain Q in 2017 how is this approach and are highly motivated to improve Q a competitive edge in the progressing, and when can we expect it processes, better serve customers, as well increasingly competitive UK Motor to reach profitability?
as maintain a culture of cost efficiency.
David: The Elephant team continues Although an intangible measure, I am Cristina: The UK market continues to A to pursue the long-term goal of confident that this underlying culture has A be competitive, with more rational a sustainable, profitable business.
To a large impact on the way we operate and players entering over the past few years.
this extent, Alberto Schiavon, Elephant ultimately contributes to the bottom line.
This has led to a more stable market, which CEO, and his team have been focused on is good for consumers.
Almost 50% of the strengthening the business over the past 2 market consists of direct, listed players years.
The team has focused on attracting and retaining customers that are typically more loyal and improving the combined 22 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Milena Mondini fide Cristina Geraint Focatiis Nestares Jones ratio.
Early signs of this strategy are positive current customer base a large proportion of Compare.
com saw an impairment in persistency has improved by 24%, from 2017 to personal loans are taken out to buy cars, and we Q 2018 does this mean that Admiral has 2018 and the loss ratio in Texas is better than believe there is also the opportunity to build a been unable to crack the US market for price the market benchmark.
In addition, the business car finance business.
has improved its digital capabilities allowing for David: The US market environment has Admiral Loans continued to grow strongly in increased self-service and an improved customer A taken an interesting turn over the past 2018, with loans balances increasing to 300 experience.
This, together with a continued 18 months combined ratios have improved, million from 66 million at the end of 2017. investment in growth to achieve the benefits of resulting in increased growth aspirations for We maintain a prudent approach to growth scale, has resulted in an improved expense ratio.
Positively, this has resulted in more and continue with a test and learn philosophy, So overall, I would say the business is making interest by insurers to join the Compare.
com growing where we see opportunity and good progress towards sustainable scale which panel.
Negatively, the slowdown in insurer slowing growth at less optimal times: we have will be necessary to reach profitability.
price increases means consumer shopping moderated growth in the second half of 2018 in has waned somewhat, while insurers have advance of Brexit.
Early signs for the loans book What is the potential of the European increased competition, and thus costs, in are positive, but we continue to remain prudent Q operations?
acquisition channels used by compare.
This in our approach as we build up experience.
Milena: The European operations achieved directly affects compare.
com as a leading price A an important milestone in 2018 overall comparison business in the US.
This pressure on Is Admiral able to continue to succeed profitability for the first time.
ConTe was marketing spend has resulted in a similar loss Q in the core business without being profitable for the fifth year, Spain close to to 2017. distracted by diversification?
breakeven, and France still loss-making but David: Admiral follows a strategy of focused We believe there is potential for price growing to achieve scale.
We believe there is an comparison to disrupt the US market and being had a strong result due to positive market opportunity to use the competitive advantages an early mover is an advantage however, it conditions and strong loss ratio performance.
we have developed in UK Motor to build other remains a challenging market with consumers In Spain and France, the businesses continue businesses both in the UK and internationally taking time to shift towards this channel.
to grow with improvements in loss ratio and that can add further value to Admiral and our As a result of the more challenging market positive growth.
Building on strong foundations shareholders.
We follow a prudent test and learn environment, we have revised our business for loss and expense ratio advantage in these approach, without investing a large amount plan and also impaired the carrying value of markets, as well as having a very strong and of cash or resources upfront and work with a Compare.
com in the parent company balance experienced management team, I believe they range of partners to further manage the risk sheet by 32.9 million.
are well on their way to produce meaningful understanding the opportunity, taking measured profits for Admiral in the next 5 years.
steps to understand the challenge and the How is the loans business doing?
Why effectiveness of our solutions, and then learning We have placed particular emphasis on Q develop a Loans business, which seems from that experience and the experience of strengthening the operations as a whole and so different to motor insurance?
those who have tried other strategies.
taking advantages of potential synergies as Geraint: The Loans market is large, with a well as transferring skills and knowledge.
A 25 billion of new business per annum for This approach, together with having a very Examples include establishing an IT team in personal lending alone and so I would be happy strong and competent leadership team in Spain that provides support for all European if we were able to successfully capture even our international operations as well as new operations, and the transferring of anti-fraud a small proportion of this market.
How will we ventures such as Admiral Loans, means that the expertise developed in Italy to the French compete?
Well, we hope to transfer some of the leadership team are able to focus on the right and Spanish operations which has resulted in competitive advantages we have built through things at the right time.
UK motor continues meaningful improvements.
In addition, the motor insurance and adapt them to the lending to be the driver of our profits and hence still newly licensed insurance company in Spain business.
These include our skill at risk selection, remains the key part of our focus and strategy.
which underwrites all European operations as digital customer acquisition, excellent customer a result of Brexit, should allow us to further service and expense efficiency.
In addition, we maintain strong governance and increase hope to take advantage of any overlap from our cross-European collaboration.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23
