Corporate Governance Board of Directors Annette Court David Stevens, CBE Geraint Jones Mike Brierley Karen Green Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Trustee of the Waterloo Non-Executive Director of Director of Jardine Lloyd Foundation Phoenix Group Holdings plc.
Council Member, Lloyds of London.
Deputy Chairman and Acting Chair, Aspen Managing Agency Ltd. Vice President, Insurance Institute of London CEO of Europe General David is a founder Director Geraints responsibilities Mike has 35 years Karen Green is the Insurance for Zurich of Admiral and was include finance, experience in Chief former CEO of Aspen Financial Services and recruited in 1991 to set investments and investor Financial Officer CFO UK, comprising the a member of the Group up the Admiral business.
He joined roles within the financial principal UK insurance and Executive Committee Admiral in 2002 and held a services industry.
Most reinsurance companies Prior to joining Admiral from 2007-2010.
Former number of senior finance recently Mike was CFO of of Aspen Insurance David worked at McKinsey CEO of Direct Line Group positions including Head Metro Bank PLC between Holdings.
Other senior & Company, in the formerly RBS Insurance of Finance, before being 2009 and 2018, helping Aspen positions included Financial Interest Group, and member of the promoted to Deputy lead the business from Group Head of Strategy, and Cadbury Schweppes in RBS Group Executive Chief Financial Officer start-up to a profitable Corporate Development, the UK and the USA.
in January 2012 and Chief FTSE250 Bank.
He spent Office of the Group David has an MBA from Previously a member Financial Officer in seven years at Capital One CEO and a member of INSEAD and he was on the Board of the August 2014.
Europe as CFO Europe, CFO the Group Executive awarded a CBE in 2010 for Association of British UK and Chief Risk Officer Committee for 12 years.
A Fellow of the Institute services to business and Insurers ABI.
He has also worked Prior to that, she held of Chartered Accountants the community in Wales.
as CFO for Royal Trust various corporate finance, in England and Wales, Bank, Financial Controller M&A and private equity Geraint spent the early at Industrial Bank of Japan, roles at GE Capital Europe part of his career as an CFO of Gentra Limited and and Stonepoint Capital external auditor at Ernst Director, Business Risk having started her career & Young and KPMG.
Mike is a in investment banking Fellow of the Institute of at Baring Brothers and Chartered Accountants in Schroders.
Originally appointed Originally appointed Appointed in 2014 Appointed in Appointed in to the Board in 2012, to the Board in 1999, October 2018 December 2018 subsequently appointed subsequently appointed to Chairman role in 2017 to CEO role in 2016 64 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 APPOINTED BACKGROUND CURRENT COMMITTEE AND EXPERIENCE APPOINTMENTS MEMBERSHIP Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Justine Roberts, CBE Owen Clarke Jean Park Manning Rountree Andy Crossley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CEO & Founder, Mumsnet.
Chairman of Equistone Non-Executive Director of Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Director and com & Gransnet.
com Partners Europe, Equistone Murray Income Trust plc.
Director of White Mountains Chair of Audit Committee at formerly Barclays Private Insurance Group, Ltd.
Vitality Health and Vitality Advisory board member of Non-Executive Director of Equity, BPE Life Britain Thinks and Portland the National House Building Director of Build America Communications Council Mutual Assurance Company Justine founded Mumsnet in Owen was Chief Investment Jean was Group Chief Risk Manning joined White Andy has 32 years 2000 and is responsible for Officer of Equistone from Officer at the Phoenix Mountains in 2004 and is the experience within the creation, strategic direction 2011 to 2017.
He previously Group from 2009 until June former President of White financial services sector, and overall management.
In led several management 2013, during which time she Mountains Advisors and most recently as Chief May 2011, Justine founded buy-outs for BPE in the held responsibility for the White Mountains Capital.
Financial Officer at Domestic Gransnet, a sister site to insurance and consumer Groups relationship with & General Group from 2014 Prior to joining White Mumsnet, for the over-50s.
finance sectors, including the regulator and founded to 2017.
He spent 14 years Mountains, Manning spent Before that Justine was BPEs participation in the the Board Risk Committee.
at Prudential plc from 2000 two years with Putnam a freelance football and Management Buy Out of Previously, she was Risk as Director, Group Finance: Investments and three years cricket journalist for the Admiral and was a director of Management Director of the Group Chief Risk Officer: with McKinsey & Company.
Times and Daily Telegraph, Admiral from 1999 to 2004.
Insurance and Investments and CFO and Deputy Chief after working for Deutsche He also led BPEs own buy division of Lloyds TSB Executive of Prudential UK.
Bank, managing the South out from Barclays to form and, before that, Head of He previously held senior African equity operation Equistone in 2011.
Compliance and Audit at manager roles at Legal & in US.
General Group plc, where he was Group Financial Jean is a Member of the Controller, and Lloyds Bank Institute of Chartered plc.
Andy is a Fellow of Accountants of Scotland.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Appointed in 2016 Appointed in 2015 Appointed in 2014 Appointed in 2015 Appointed in 2018 Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Committee Chair Group Risk Committee member Nomination and Governance Committee member Senior Independent Director Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
