Strategic Report Other Group Items OTHER GROUP ITEMS FINANCIAL REVIEW m 2018 2017 2016 Share scheme charges 49.0 35.2 31.5 Admiral Loans loss before tax 11.8 4.4 - Other interest and investment return 2.9 8.4 13.4 Business development costs 4.3 5.2 5.2 Other central overheads 10.8 6.2 4.1 Finance charges 11.3 11.4 11.4 UK commercial van broking 0.3 1.1 2.0 Other Group items 84.0 52.9 36.8 Share scheme charges relate to the Other interest and investment income launched in 2017 and newly launched Groups two employee share schemes of 2.9 million was lower than in 2017 business in Turkey.
refer to note 9 to the financial 8.4 million.
The 2017 result included Other central overheads of 10.8 statements.
Charges increased by a 5.4 million realised gain from the sale million continue to reflect the cost of a 13.8 million in 2018, to 49 million.
of investments held by the Group, which number of significant Group projects, The increase in the charge is mainly due was not repeated in 2018.
Both 2017 and including the one-off cost of Brexit to a non-repeating change made in 2017 2018 include the impact of unrealised reorganisation approximately 3 over which the charge is spread without losses relating to forward foreign million and a number of other nonthis change, the 2017 charge would exchange contracts 2018: 2.3 million, recurring costs relating to ongoing have been approximately 6 million 2017: 2.3 million.
The higher number Group projects.
Other factors for the increase in 2016 of 13.4 million benefitted from include a change in the vesting outcome 6.5 million of unrealised gains from Finance charges of 11.3 million 2017: assumptions for variable awards forward contracts.
11.4 million mainly represent interest including 2016 which vests in 2019, on the 200 million subordinated notes Business development costs include and reflects the significantly higher issued in July 2014 refer to note 6 to the costs associated with potential new profit in 2018 and an increase in the financial statements.
ventures, including the investment number of awards, reflecting the in Preminen's ventures related to the increasing Group headcount over a price comparison businesses in Mexico three year vesting period.
ADMIRAL LOANS m 2018 2017 Total interest income 15.0 1.6 1 Interest expense 4.3 0.4 Net interest income 10.7 1.2 Other fee income 0.4 - Total income 11.1 1.2 Expenses 22.9 5.6 Admiral Loans result 11.8 4.4 1 Includes 0.7 million Intra-group interest expense.
48 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Brexit continues to bring risks to the Group, Background UK EXIT FROM THE EUROPEAN which include: UNION BREXIT Admiral Loans launched in 2017, and currently distributes unsecured personal Admiral has adopted a prudent approach The potential for market volatility, and loans and car finance products through in relation to Brexit, designed to mitigate the potential for the uncertainty or the price comparison websites and also direct the risks to our European businesses of a emerging terms of exit to trigger or to consumers via the Admiral website.
potential hard Brexit, which could have exacerbate less favourable economic prevented those operations from continuing conditions in the UK and other countries The Group employs a prudent test and learn to trade due to reliance on passporting rights.
in which Admiral operates though it approach regarding growth in customers is worth noting that car insurance has and loan advances, consistent with other The businesses that potentially would have tended to be resilient to economic new business launches.
Initial results are been impacted, being the European insurers downturns: and Admiral Loans has encouraging, and the business has grown and European price comparison businesses, adopted a cautious approach to volumes significantly since launch, with loan balances have been restructured so as to fully and credit quality in advance of Brexit.
increasing to 300 million in 2018 2017: 66 mitigate a no deal outcome.
This has been As part of the Own Risk and Solvency million.
The Group continues to expect the achieved for the European insurers through Assessment ORSA process, the business to make losses in its early phase Admiral receiving approval for an application Group has performed a stress testing as a result of the upfront accounting for to establish insurance and intermediary exercise for its Brexit assessment of acquisition costs as opposed to interest companies in Spain, such that from 1 January the impact of a recession through 2019 income earned on loans which is spread over 2019, all of the Groups European insurance on the UK insurance business, including the life of the loans.
Admiral is encouraged business is underwritten by a regulated the increase in claims costs following with the performance of the business and entity in Spain, Admiral Europe Compania a spike in inflation.
This includes the credit quality of the loans portfolio.
All existing liabilities and negative movement in interest rates, contracts relating to these businesses have Admiral Loans has secured external funding currency, investment yields, inflation, been transferred through portfolio transfer during 2018 of up to 300 million through unemployment and GDP, alongside a processes, also effective from 1 January 2019. the securitisation of certain loans via hard Brexit i. e. no deal outcome.
Given transfer to a special purpose entity SPE In addition, the Groups European price the results of the stress testing the Group which remains under the control of the comparison businesses Rastreator and is comfortable that it is able to manage Group.
The securitisation and subsequent LeLynx have successfully been merged into the potential outcomes of such scenarios issue of notes does not result in a significant price comparison companies established in should they occur.
transfer of risk from the Group.
Spain Comparaseguros Corredia fide Seguros Also as part of the ORSA process, a and France LeLynx SAS respectively.
specific economic stress test scenario Result which captures the potential outcomes The Group expects AIGL, the Groups The Admiral Loans business grew from a no deal Brexit has been applied Gibraltar insurance entity, to be able significantly during 2018, and recorded to the Admiral Loans business in order to to continue to carry on trading in an a pre-tax loss of 11.8 million increase assess the potential impact.
The stress uninterrupted manner after 29 March 2019. from pre-tax loss of 4.4 million in 2017. results in an increase in the loss provision This is reliant on the passing of relevant The higher loss predominantly relates to that would be required as a result of the legislation by UK government which is the cost of acquiring new customers which deterioration in economic environment.
is expensed immediately with interest As for the UK insurance business, the income recognised over the life of the loan, Group is comfortable that it is able to typically three to four years.
manage the potential outcomes based on the results of the stress test and relevant As a result of growth, net interest income management actions.
increased and expenses also increased driven by factors including the acquisition Potential changes to the rules relating to cost of growth and changes to provisioning.
the free movement of people between the UK and the remaining EU member Admiral Loans also adopted the new IFRS9 states.
The Group has followed external accounting standard as at 1 January 2018 advice on planning for the small number of which has accelerated the recognition EU citizens working within the UK and UK of expected losses on loans advanced citizens working in the EU, for the Group.
Potential for impact on the import of car Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic Report Other Group Items continued parts with potential impact on claims At present, the Group does not foresee costs.
A working group is in place to a material adverse impact on day-tomanage and review this risk, with day operations including customers commercial negotiations ongoing to or staff.
The Group recognises the mitigate risks arising from a no deal potential economic disruption that Brexit.
may arise from a hard Brexit.
Whilst the Group is comfortable that it is Modest potential operational able to manage potential outcomes difficulties relating to the provision of following the review of the stress green cards to customers wishing to testing noted above, it recognises the drive in Europe.
A full communications uncertainties that exist in relation to plan has been developed for customers Brexit and the potential for adverse wishing to drive their vehicles in Europe impacts to the Groups capital position after 29 March 2019. and future dividend payments.
Sensitivities to the Groups regulatory solvency ratio are presented on page 29, including a number of specific market risk sensitivities.
The cost of the restructuring activity has not been material to the Group.
Managers Awards Our Managers Awards were first awards carry a great deal of prestige.
There are now 20 Each recipient receives a plaque to awards in total, which are named keep and his or her name is added to a after executives and senior managers company plaque for each award, which reflecting the skills and qualities that are then displayed in reception in all particular manager values, such as the our sites so everyone can see them.
Louisa Scadden Dont Just Sit There There are no rules with the awards, so award or the Stuart Clarke Details if someone only works part time, they Make a Difference award.
Each have just as much a chance as a full-time manager chooses the recipient of his employee to win one.
or her award and consequently, the 50 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
