Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Admiral has a remuneration structure which reinforces our unique culture and creates strong alignment with our shareholders.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, We do not pay annual cash bonuses Geraint Jones received his award of and instead have in place a bonus 5,000 salary shares, equivalent to I am pleased to introduce the Directors structure the DFSS Bonus that is 98,225.
In line with policy, these Remuneration Report for the year directly linked to the number of DFSS shares will vest after three years ended 31 December 2018, which has awards held and actual dividends paid subject to continued employment.
An been prepared by the Remuneration out to shareholders.
additional two-year holding period Committee the Committee and will apply and malus and clawback approved by the Board.
Our remuneration structure is aligned provisions will apply during the to our philosophy around the efficient 2018 has been a positive year for vesting and holding periods.
Further use of capital and distribution of Admiral Group.
Earnings per share in details on these shares can be found profit.
It focuses heavily on reinforcing the year were 137.1 pence 2017: 117.2 on page 91: collective performance through the pence and return on equity was 56% use of the DFSS and DFSS bonus, but 2017: 55%.
Total dividends for the also reflects individual and business financial year including the proposed unit performance through the final dividend of 66.0 pence per share allocation of awards and the application will be 126.0 pence per share.
of adjustments to their vesting.
Remuneration in 2018 At the 26 April 2018 AGM, we asked Admiral has a remuneration structure shareholders to approve a new which reinforces our unique culture Remuneration Policy, which included and creates strong alignment with our updates to align with evolving best shareholders: practice and regulatory requirements and to improve the alignment of the Base salaries are targeted at the CFOs remuneration with both the lower end of our peer group, and market and other senior Admiral executives are encouraged to build up executives, as well as our Annual Report significant shareholdings in the Group on Remuneration.
We were pleased to note that the Our main incentive plans are a majority of our shareholders approved Share Incentive Plan SIP, which both resolutions with a 99% vote for the encourages wide share ownership Remuneration Policy and 90% vote for across our employees, and the the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Discretionary Free Share Scheme approved Remuneration Policy came DFSS, which incentivises Earnings into effect from the date of the AGM.
per Share growth, Return on Equity In line with this policy, the Committee and Total Shareholder Return vs. made the following decisions: the FTSE 350 excluding investment companies over a three-year period.
88 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In September 2018, Geraint Jones was developed in 2018 and consistency with Agreed the basis for linking the CEOs also granted an award under the DFSS of the wider senior management population remuneration to gender-diversity targets.
50,000 shares, equivalent to 1,020,000 was preferred: and The Committee strongly believes that or 416% of salary.
This award will vest David Stevenss salary was increased the Remuneration Policy and structure on three-year EPS growth vs. LIBOR, by 2.5% to 416,048 effective from 1 remains fit for purpose, aligning executives TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment September 2019 and the cash element of to the collective culture at Admiral and to companies and ROE.
David Stevens Geraint Joness salary was also increased shareholders interests.
again declined to be included given his by 2.5% to 251,125, effective from 1 significant shareholding.
These increases are below the The Annual Report on Remuneration on this award can be found on page 101: average increase across the Group for 2018. subject to an advisory vote will be put to Based on performance to 31 December our shareholders at the AGM on 25 April During the year ended 31 December 2018, 2018, 87.6% of the DFSS award granted 2019.
We do hope that you vote in favour additional to its regular activities, the in 2016 will vest.
The EPS condition was of the report.
I am available to meet and Committee also: partially achieved, vesting at 75.5% of this discuss our Remuneration Policy and Annual element and the ROE condition was also Report on Remuneration with shareholders.
Developed and implemented a malus and partially achieved, vesting at 87.5% of this clawback framework: element.
The TSR condition fully vested Established a fixed variable pay policy for at 100% of the element.
This means that staff in control functions: Geraint Jones will receive 43,800 vested Reviewed the DFSS vesting and bonus Owen Clarke DFSS shares.
The Committee reviewed arrangements for Executive Directors, this vesting outcome and concluded that Chairman of the Remuneration senior management and relevant staff it was appropriate.
The Committee made Committee Material Risk Takers covered under no adjustment for the EPS enhancement 6 March 2019 Solvency II: during the period from the partial reversal of the provisioning for the Ogden rate Agreed changes to the DFSS vesting change two years ago as this approach conditions for our European Insurance is consistent with that taken previously businesses, Elephant Auto and by the Committee for the vesting of the Compare.
com so that vesting is linked 2014 DFSS awards where no adjustment to business unit, rather than Group, was made to neutralise the substantial performance: negative impact on 2016 EPS from the Reviewed remuneration arrangements for initial provision for the Ogden rate change: Confused and the other European price Last year, we stated that the DFSS bonus comparison businesses, replacing DFSS for the CFO would include a - 20% awards with bonuses focused on both adjustment based on performance profitability and growth: against a set of risk metrics.
The Reviewed executive and workforce Committee invested considerable time remuneration trends and changes to the in reviewing appropriate measures and UK Corporate Governance Code and best targets for determining any adjustments, practice guidelines: which would also apply for the wider Reviewed alignment of the Groups senior management population in 2019, current remuneration structure with the and the Committee concluded that the Living Wage: adjustment would be first introduced for Reviewed Admirals Gender Pay the 2019 DFSS bonus.
This decision was reporting stats: and taken as the risk metrics were still being Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89
