Our Culture People who like what they do, do it better: this belief is integral to our culture.
We have created an environment where Admiral employees look forward to coming to work and providing great service to customers.
We encourage our people to get involved in innovation, proactively improving our processes, services and working environment.
As responsible employers we aim to create an inclusive working environment and support our staff wherever possible.
This is underpinned by our Four Pillars: 06 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information % of employees believe this is a friendly place to work 95 COMMUNICATION EQUALITY FUN In any organisation, clear communication Being different is what makes us special: We work hard, but also encourage our is vital, and to ensure this we promote were proud to represent people of all staff to have fun, allowing a balanced work open-plan workplaces and constant genders, sexual orientation, ethnicities, environment that builds strong cohesion communication and interaction across and abilities, and are always working among colleagues, and improves morale teams and departments: its little things towards improved representation all round.
In fact, we feel that this is so like this can really help break down the throughout the Group.
Overall, the important, weve even got our own barriers and encourage teamwork and a Group gender split is improving, and Ministry of Fun!
we continue to promote diversity at all management levels.
REWARD AND RECOGNITION We firmly believe that a job well done should be appropriately rewarded, be it with a Board composition since 2010 departmental awards ceremony, the award of additional shares, or even just a simple 12 Employee thank you.
Without the hard work and 9 Gender dedication of our staff, we wouldnt be where 6 we are today.
All of our staff receive shares in Admiral - everyone owns part of the business 3 Male and every job is important and impacts Female 0 their returns.
The share scheme provides an incentive for strong performance, and Male 49% Female 51% promotes collaboration towards building a profitable and innovative business.
253,241 698 online courses classroom sessions completed delivered by Academy Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Our Culture Customer, Customer, Customer We value customers above anything else.
We work hard so that our customers are able to get the most suitable products for their specific needs and can rely on us to be there for them when things go wrong.
08 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information % 98 of customers 1 would buy again CUSTOMER SERVICE COMMUNICATION PEACE OF MIND We set ourselves the highest standards Accessible, clear, and formatted to meet the People buy insurance with the hope of never for customer service and always look requirements of each individual: our approach having to use it, but in an emergency, we to improve.
Regular, in-depth customer to communication reflects our broader want reliable, efficient service and firm feedback, a committed Customer Assurance commitments to our customers, ensuring emotional support.
This is an integral part department, and highly-skilled Customer they know exactly what to expect should of the overall customer experience, and its Services representatives all go together they ever need to make a claim.
Whats more, what were committed to delivering across to deliver the best possible service.
With we provide a wide range of platforms for our the Group.
frequent quality checks and a dedicated customers to stay in touch with us, including training department, our staff are always through Facebook chat, webpage chatbots, supported to give high quality care.
and a dedicated customer portal to keep it green by going digital rather than relying on carbon-intensive post.
% % seconds 96 96.3 74 of customers were average call answer average waiting time for a 2 3 happy with their service rate Customer Services call 1 Average Reevoo score for 2018, based on 42,834 responses 2 Based on 17,755 responses 3 For UK-based Customer Services Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Our Culture Our people play an active role in deciding who we help and how after all, who understands the needs of the community better than the people themselves?
As a global business employing over 10,000 people, we feel even more so that its our responsibility to give something back to our local and global community: whats more is that we feel proud to do so.
10 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information by providing CV workshops, careers talks, COMMUNITY CHEST COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT and work experience to schools, local job Its often said that charity begins at home, and People really are at the heart of what we centres, and Princes Trust beneficiaries with our Community Chest, we aim to provide do, and if we can get involved, were glad to from time to time.
the necessary funding that can breathe life do so.
Teams are encouraged to undertake into all manner of community projects.
As community projects as part of their teamGREEN ADMIRAL applications are submitted by staff who are building activities and fun afternoons for Were committed to reducing our personally involved in all manner of projects, example, the Recruitment team recently environmental impact in any way we can, and from drama groups to sports clubs, we can be spent the day at a residential care home in our Green Team meets regularly to discuss certain that our funding is being spent where Bridgend with an entertaining array of song this.
Examples include an energy-conscious its most needed.
and dance for residents, as well as helping approach to choosing new premises, retroout where possible.
fitting energy-saving devices in our existing HELP TO WORK buildings, reducing non-recyclable cutlery Sometimes charity takes the form of time Brightening the lives Supporting cancer care and cup use in our offices.
Were proud to say that we of children with life facilities and charities information on our efforts, please see help those in search of a career or limiting illnesses in the Cardiff, Swansea, pages 58 to 61. and Newport areas who want to make their own way in life 100,000 100,000 tonnes 0.39 156,415 100,000 100,000 C0 e per employee raised by our 2018 Million 2 Makers team Improving the Helping homeless lives of vulnerable people in Cardiff, elderly people Newport and Swansea % 100 400,000 reduction in waste sent to be spent by the new Ministry to landfill since 2017 of Giving over the next 2 years Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
