Strategic Report Price Comparison Review Global During 2018, we continued to deliver We are increasing our diversification and on our ambition of playing relevant and leveraging our brands, particularly relevant leading roles in our services comparison with the launch of our energy vertical in markets where barriers to entry are low, France and mortgage comparison in Spain.
but barriers to success are high.
In emerging markets, we continue our In our European markets, we have prepared path of organic expansion and we welcome the businesses for Brexit by creating a Tamoniki.
com, as the newest member of the robust organisational structure.
mx in Mexico is also invested in our brands, products seeing the first positive signs of growth.
and data capabilities to strengthen and Elena Betes We prefer to call ourselves Customer diversify our revenue lines.
Portals rather than Price Comparison, European Price Comparison Director We believe that our world requires as the future requires us to not only disruption to improve customer compare prices, but also to give advice experience and we have proven this in on the individual fit between consumer Spain, where by putting the customer first, and service product.
We expect insights we succeeded in getting more reliable based on data analysis and AI will enable us and accurate prices from insurers in 2018. to achieve this, but this is only one of the This is already having a positive impact on many opportunities that 2019 offers to our conversion rates and gives us optimism growing family.
In Confused in the UK, we continued to focus on our priorities and invested in developing attractive new offers for customers.
com has seen and embarked as ever.
Our interactions with customers on many changes in its 16-year history, also changed during 2018 as GDPR came but as the Groups most mature price into force.
comparison business and the company Confused.
com responded to all of these that created the industry, one thing has challenges, growing revenue by 10% remained the same - our focus on saving and profit by 42% year on year, whilst customers time and money.
continuing to invest in technology and In 2018, Confused.
2018 profit margin also improved evolve its driver centric strategy, with a to 15% 2017: 12% as we focused on focus on leading drivers from confusion more effective marketing in response Louise OShea to clarity, and helping people navigate the to market conditions and implemented CEO, Confused.
com noise, clutter and confusion when it comes improvements for customers.
In 2018, we to the hundreds of insurers fighting for also achieved the milestone of 1 billion their attention.
revenue since we launched in 2002, a fantastic achievement for everybody who The price comparison sector remains one has been a part of the Confused.
of the UKs biggest advertisers and in 2018 we saw costs increase across most In 2019, we dont expect the competitive of our marketing channels.
This, together environment to ease, but Confused.
com with a downturn in insurance prices, and will continue its focus on saving time and customers using multiple price comparison money for customers which, after all, is websites, made the market as competitive what it is all about.
44 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Spain 2018 was a mixed year for Rastreator.
process of the customer and being able to Challenging market conditions and close sales by ourselves mortgages, loans investment in new products resulted in flat and insurance policies.
This will allow us to revenue and a decrease in profit.
This, as give a complete and better experience to well as several regulatory changes including our customers.
IDD, Brexit and GDPR did not stop us from In addition, this provides a new way to concentrating on moving towards an communicate and improves our marketing improved customer proposition through our approach towards a better understanding of price accuracy strategy.
the benefits we can provide to customers.
It has been challenging in our relationships This has allowed us to develop a strategic Fernando Summers with insurers but the steps we are taking transformation of our marketing structure, CEO, Rastreator are improving the experience and therefore messages and campaigns.
To make this happen, we have a strong, For 2019 we are focusing in setting up our own ambitious and committed team that truly call centre to get deeper into the contracting believe in this growing future for Rastreator!
France French market growth in 2018 was more The business continues to go from strength volatile following increased marketing spend to strength with a growing team to support by incumbents.
Whilst the car insurance important projects that we anticipate will aggregator market started to show signs of strengthen revenue and profit growth in 2019 maturity, we saw impressive growth in other and beyond.
The plan is to pursue growth and insurance products helped by favourable develop new products that will help consumers regulation for switching.
make the right choices when it comes to insurance, finance, energy and potentially In 2018, LeLynx achieved double-digit revenue other products very soon.
growth of 10% on the back of a well-founded marketing campaign and focus on diversification I am delighted and optimistic about the future Itzal Arbide of the product range.
LeLynx launched a wellof LeLynx and look forward to 2019 in my new CEO, LeLynx received comparison tool for energy suppliers, role as CEO.
And a great team to do in a new market experiencing rapid growth and this with.
simple switching rules for consumers.
USA 2018 was not the year we expected.
Most Another highlight of 2018 was the raising of carriers achieved rate adequacy in late 2017 approximately $35 million to fuel and grow and came into 2018 in growth mode.
Admiral entered an agreement with Henry Engelhardt and his wife, Diane, That was good for us in terms of carrier whereby Diane invested $25 million.
In additions to our panel including Esurance, addition, Admiral Group provided compare.
com Travelers, USAA as well as rates returned to up to $10 million by way of a convertible loan customers our highest national average ever.
instrument, $5 million of which had been drawn It also meant, however, an upward movement down at the year end.
in our acquisition costs as those same carriers sought growth.
That resulted in lower revenue Our 2019 priorities remain similar to 2018: Andrew Rose and quote volumes in 2018 and pressure on grow our absolute volumes while continuing CEO, compare.
Consumers can save billions and we are determined to help This pressure meant an ever-vigilant focus on them realise how easy it can be!
cost management as well as the exploration of new acquisition channels.
Several nice partnerships have developed with a strong pipeline established for 2019.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic Report Price Comparison Review continued PRICE COMPARISON FINANCIAL REVIEW m 2018 2017 2016 Revenue Car insurance price comparison 110.1 108.8 97.7 Other categories 40.9 34.8 31.5 Total revenue 151.0 143.6 129.2 Expenses 144.4 138.2 132.1 Profit loss before tax 6.6 5.4 2.9 Confused.
com profit 14.3 10.1 16.1 International price comparison result 7.7 4.7 19.0 6.6 5.4 2.9 1 Groups share of profit loss before tax Confused.
com profit 14.3 10.1 16.1 International price comparison result 5.5 3.0 13.4 8.8 7.1 2.7 1 Alternative Performance Measure refer to the end of this report for definition and explanation.
Admiral operates four price comparison In the UK, Confused.
com saw market The combined revenue from the businesses: in the UK Confused.
com, in share increases in Motor and Home European operations increased by 4% 2 Spain Rastreator, France LeLynx and Insurance price comparison and to 46.3 million 2017: 44.4 million, the US compare.
Admiral Group efficient media spending led to an reflecting continued growth in traffic owns 75% of Rastreator and 59% of increased profit of 14.3 million and quotes provided to customers compare.
com 2017: 75% of Rastreator: 2017: 10.1 million : in LeLynx and increased competitive 71% of compare.
The European price comparison businesses reported a reduced Combined revenue grew by 5% to 151 During 2018 compare.
com received profit of 1.4 million 2017: 4.1 million 2017: 143.6 million and the investments totalling $30 million, $25 million reflecting investment in a businesses made a combined profit million in an agreement with former more diversified product range as excluding minority interests shares of Admiral Group CEO Henry Engelhardt well as a more competitive market 8.8 million 2017: 7.1 million.
and his wife, Diane, and separately, $10 environment, including a new entrant million by way of a convertible loan The key features of the Price spending on marketing in France: and from Admiral Group, of which $5 million Comparison result are: The UK price comparison market was drawn down in the year.
Henry remains very competitive with has subsequently joined the Board of A loss of 6.9 million 2017: 7.1 increasing advertising spend across compare.
com in the US, all marketing channels, however Admiral Group share.
com updated to small market share increases led 86.8 million from originally reported 87.1 loss before tax remained constant million due to new products which no longer fall Confused.
com to a 10% increase at 10.0 million.
The results reflect under Confused.
com and have been transferred in turnover to 95.1 million 2017: a reduction in sales volumes due to to the Group.
increased market competition and pressure on acquisition costs: 46 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In 2018, a non-cash impairment charge of PRICE COMPARISON 32.9 million was recognised by the parent REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT company in respect of its investment in Confused.
com is regulated by the Financial compare.
This followed the regular Conduct Authority FCA as an insurance review of the carrying values of subsidiary intermediary and is subject to all relevant companies and review of the long-term intermediation rules, including those on strategy of compare.
com, and reflects solvency capital.
challenging conditions for nascent price comparison market in the US.
Given the During 2018 Brexit preparations were challenging market conditions there finalised and Rastreator and Lelynx are remains considerable uncertainty over the now locally licensed, negating the need timing and level of the future profitability to passport insurance intermediary of the business.
The impairment charge is permissions from the UK.
Further recognised in the income statement of the information on the impact of Brexit on parent company and has no impact on the our European operations can be found on Groups consolidated profit for the period or page 49. the Groups 2018 regulatory capital position.
com is a regulated insurance Compare.
coms plans for 2019 and beyond agency domiciled in Virginia, US, and include continuing to scale marketing licensed in all other US states.
The Group anticipates that the Groups share of compare.
coms losses for 2019 will be in the range of $7 million to $14 million.
Preminen, the Groups price comparison venture with Mapfre, continues to explore price comparison in new markets overseas.
mx in Mexico has focused on panel development and growth, Staff General Meeting while Tamoniki, Preminens Turkish price comparison website, was launched in 2018.
The annual Staff General Meeting SGM started in 1998.
All UK-based staff are invited to attend.
They are lively and entertaining meetings where the senior managers give presentations about the performance of the company and inform staff of business plans for the coming year.
The presentations are informative, but the focus has always been to entertain and inspire staff for the year ahead.
This is our only event where senior managers speak to all UK staff face to face on the same day and we think this is a very powerful and effective way to promote a renewed sense of pride in Admiral every year.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
