Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report The Groups principles of respect for Disabled employees and the audited financial statements for the human rights, diversity, health and safety Admiral Group gives full and fair year ended 31 December 2018. and workplace ethical standards not consideration to applications for only apply to staff directly employed by employment made by those with STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Admiral, but also to staff employed by the disabilities, having regard to their particular Group results and dividends Groups outsourced partner in Bangalore, aptitudes and abilities.
To meet this commitment, Admiral The profit for the year, after tax but before UK businesses are Disability Confident Group maintains regular contact with dividends, amounted to 390.5 million Employers.
This means they are recognised its outsourcers management team and 2017: 331.6 million.
as going the extra mile to make sure the Groups senior managers visit the disabled people get a fair chance.
The Directors declared and paid dividends outsourcer on a regular basis, whilst of 332.7 million during 2018 2017: the Group also provides training and The Group will support any employee who 300.3 million refer to note 12b for development to ensure that the team is disabled or has a life-threatening illness further details.
In addition, Admiral and help them to contribute to the Group as Group has appointed a manager based long as their health allows.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend permanently at the outsourced operation, of 188 million 66 pence per share payable Managers in the Group are sensitive to who is responsible for ensuring that the on 31 May 2019. health concerns and special needs and will Groups principles are adhered to by the not knowingly allow any employee with a outsourced partner, and that the wellbeing Employee policies disabling or life threatening illness to suffer of outsourced staff is monitored.
Detailed information on the Groups from discrimination at work.
The Group employment practices is set out in the Anti-Bribery provides staff with access to the EAP Care Strategic Report and on the corporate First confidential helpline which offers advice The Groups Bribery policy strictly prohibits website.
The Group purchases appropriate and support on a range of health issues.
the solicitation or the acceptance of any liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
bribe, whether cash or inducement, to or Communication from any person or company, wherever Diversity, ethics and human rights There are a wide range of communication they are situated and whether they are a Admiral Group respects and values tools used by the Group to communicate public official or body or private person or the individuality and diversity of every with employees, which assists in the company, by any individual employee, Board employee.
The Groups Equality, Diversity understanding of business goals and member, agent or other person or body on and Dignity at Work policy ensures that objectives, including: the staff portal Atlas, the Groups behalf.
every employee is treated equally and fairly internal newsletters, videos, team briefings, and that all employees are aware of their Gender diversity suggestion schemes, staff forums, updates obligations.
The Group is fully committed on the staff share scheme and the annual The table below provides a breakdown of the to the health and safety and the human Staff General Meeting SGM.
In the 2018 gender of Company Directors and employees rights of its employees regardless of annual staff survey, 84% of staff were happy at the end of the financial year: their background.
In addition, the Group with the amount of information they receive maintains a number of employee codes about the Company 2017: 83%.
Male Female of conduct regarding appropriate ethical 1 Company Directors 6 4 standards in the workplace.
2 Other senior managers 41 22 All employees 5,260 5,586 Notes 1 Company Directors consists of the Board of Directors, as detailed on pages 64 to 65.
2 Other senior managers is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report and includes persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company, other than Company Directors.
Any other Directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts that are not considered strategically significant have not been included.
108 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The transparency of our communication Greenhouse gas emissions Going concern philosophy extends to senior managers The annual level of greenhouse gas Under Provision C. 1.3 of the 2016 UK and Directors, who sit amongst their teams emissions, resulting from activities for Corporate Governance Code, the Board is which encourages a dialogue between which the Group is responsible, was 3,926 required to report on whether the business staff of all levels of seniority across all CO e 2017: 3,642 CO e, equivalent to 0.39 is a going concern.
In considering this 2 2 areas of our business.
Furthermore, our 3 tonnes 2017: 0.42 tonnes per employee.
requirement, the Directors have taken into Chief Executive Officer CEO operates an In accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 account the following: open door policy so if any member of our guidance released 20 January 2015, Admiral staff wants to ask him a question, they can The Groups projections for the next 12 is exempt from reporting greenhouse gas email him directly through our Ask David months and beyond, in particular the profit emissions from electricity supply to the intranet initiative.
Our senior managers and forecasts, regulatory capital surpluses and three largest UK offices which meets the Directors also participate in regular online levels and sources of liquidity: GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
The risks included on the Groups risk that Lolivier in France and, Elephant, in the register that could impact on the Groups USA, have been unable to provide data for Contractual arrangements financial position and performance, levels 2018 data and are excluded from the results The Group considers its co-insurance and of liquidity and solvency over the next in this and future reports until they are able reinsurance contracts, as described in the 12 months: and to do so.
LeLynx in France is also excluded Strategic Report, to be essential to the but is immaterial to the overall view due to The risks on the Groups risk register that running of the Groups business.
could be a threat to the Groups business contractual arrangements are considered model and capital adequacy.
The data has been prepared with reference to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas The Groups business activities, together Financial instruments Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and with the factors likely to affect its future The objectives and policies for managing Reporting Standard Revised Edition and in development, performance and position risks in relation to financial instruments accordance with the guidance for corporate are set out in the Strategic Report.
The held by the Group are set out in note 7 to reporting issued by the Department for Strategic Report also includes the Groups the financial statements.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
In addition, the governance report includes the Directors and their interests There are no material exclusions from this Directors statement on the viability of the data.
Exclusions included figures for air The present Directors of the Company are Group over a three year period.
conditioning from all sites because the shown on pages 64 to 65 of this Report, information was not available from the whilst Directors interests in the share Following consideration of the above, the managing agents of the Groups multiple capital of the Company are set out in the Directors have reasonable expectation that office locations.
Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107. the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, a Detailed information on the Groups period of not less than 12 months from the environmental performance and the date of this report, and that it is therefore methodology for the measurement of appropriate to adopt the going concern basis greenhouse gas emissions is available on the in preparing the financial statements.
3 A verage employee number excludes employees from offices for which data could not be collected.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued There are a number of agreements that SHARE CAPITAL, AGM AND RELATED Additional information for shareholders alter or terminate upon a change of control MATTERS Where not provided previously in this of the Company following a takeover bid, Major Shareholders Directors Report, the following provides such as commercial contracts.
None are the additional information required Other than as stated below, as far as the considered to be significant in terms of their for shareholders as a result of the Company is aware, there are no persons impact on the business of the Group as a implementation of the Takeovers Directive with significant direct or indirect holdings whole except for the long term co-insurance into UK law.
Information provided to agreement in place with Munich Re.
the Company pursuant to the Financial At 31 December 2018, the Companys issued Details relating to the Groups co-insurance Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and share capital comprised a single class of and reinsurance agreements with Munich Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details Re agreement are contained in the Regulatory Information Service and on the of the share capital and shares issued during Strategic Report.
the year can be found in note 12d.
Power to issue shares At 31 January 2019, the Company had On a poll, every member present in person At the last Annual General Meeting, held received notifications in accordance with or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have on 26 April 2018, authority was given to the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable one vote for every ordinary share held.
The the Directors to allot unissued relevant interests in the voting rights in the notice of the general meeting specifies securities in the Company up to a maximum Companys issued share capital: deadlines for exercising voting rights either of 95,904, equivalent to one third of the by proxy notice or present in person or by issued share capital as at 20 March 2018.
Number of proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed This authority expires on the date of the shares % at general meeting.
All proxy votes are Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 Munich Re 29,349,400 10.1% counted and the numbers for, against or April 2019 and the Directors will seek to Henry Engelhardt withheld in relation to each resolution are renew this authority for the following year.
& Diane Briere fide lIsle 29,305,472 10.1% announced at the Annual General Meeting A further special resolution passed at that and published on the Companys website BlackRock Inc 14,298,745 4.9% meeting granted authority to the Directors after the meeting.
N. M. Rothschild & Sons to allot equity securities in the Company Ltd. 12,861,068 4.8% There are no restrictions on the transfer of up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share Fidelity Management ordinary shares in the company other than: capital of the Company for cash, without & Research Company 12,337,444 4.2% regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Certain restrictions may from time to Moondance Companies Act 2006.
This authority also time be imposed by laws and regulations Foundation 11,400,000 3.9% expires on the date of the Annual General for example, insider trading laws : and Meeting to be held on 25 April 2019 and the The interests of Directors and officers and Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Directors will seek to renew this authority their connected persons in the issued share FCA whereby certain employees of for the following year.
capital of the Company are given in the the Company require the approval of Remuneration Report.
the Company to deal in the Companys In line with the new principles published by securities.
the Pre-Emption Group in March 2015, and their template resolutions published in May The Company has not purchased any of its 2016, allowing a company the ability to seek own shares during the period.
authority over a further 5% of the issued ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive There are no agreements between the basis subject to certain conditions, it is the Company and its Directors or employees intention of the Company, at the AGM on 25 providing for compensation for loss of April 2019, to seek this additional authority office or employment whether through by special resolution and will confirm in resignation, purported redundancy or the Notice of AGM that such additional otherwise that occurs because of a shares are only issued in connection with a takeover bid.
specified acquisition or capital investment.
110 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Board is of the view that it is in the Appointments of Directors Directors responsibilities best interests of the Group to attract The Companys Articles of Association The Directors are responsible for preparing and retain the services of the most able the Articles give the Directors power to the Annual Report and the Group and parent and experienced Directors by offering appoint and replace Directors.
Under the company financial statements in accordance competitive terms of engagement, Terms of Reference of the Nomination and with applicable law and regulations.
including the granting of such indemnities.
Governance Committee, any appointment Neither the Deed Poll of Indemnity nor Company law requires the Directors to must be recommended by the Nomination insurance cover would provide any coverage prepare Group and parent company financial and Governance Committee for approval in the event that a Director is proved to have statements for each financial year.
Under by the Board of Directors.
At the Groups acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
that law they are required to prepare the AGM on 26 April 2018, new Articles of Group financial statements in accordance Association were approved by shareholders Annual General Meeting AGM with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and which provide that all Directors will retire It is proposed that the next AGM be held at applicable law and have elected to prepare and offer themselves for re-election at each City Hall, Cardiff on Thursday 25 April 2019 the parent company financial statements AGM, in accordance with the UK Corporate at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to in accordance with UK Accounting Governance Code and the Companys shareholders with the Annual Report.
Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced current practice.
Therefore, all Directors will Disclosure Framework.
be submitting themselves for re-election by REPORTING, ACCOUNTABILITY shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
AND AUDIT Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless UK Corporate Governance Code Articles of Association they are satisfied that they give a true and Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate The Articles may only be amended by special fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Governance Code the Code, published by resolution of the shareholders.
and parent company and of their profit or the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April loss for that period.
In preparing each of Power of the Directors 2016 and available on their website, www.
the Group and parent company financial The Directors are responsible for managing frc.
The Companys Annual Report statements, the directors are required to: the business of the Company and may and Accounts, taken as a whole, addresses exercise all powers of the Company subject the requirements of the 2016 Code.
select suitable accounting policies and to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any then apply them consistently: During the year to 31 December 2018, the directions given by special resolution and to make judgements and estimates that are Company has in all respects complied with the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
reasonable and prudent: the provisions of the 2016 Code except The Articles, for example, contain specific with regard to non-compliance with the for the Group financial statements, state provisions and restrictions concerning the provisions as set out in the Corporate whether they have been prepared in Companys power to borrow money.
Powers Governance Report at page 66. accordance with IFRSs as adopted by relating to the issuing of new shares are also the EU: and included in the Articles and such authorities The Directors confirm that the Annual for the parent company financial are renewed by shareholders at the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, statements, state whether applicable General Meeting each year.
is fair, balanced and understandable and UK Accounting Standards, including FRS provides the information necessary for Directors indemnities and insurance 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, have shareholders to assess the Companys Directors and Officers insurance cover is been followed, subject to any material position and performance, business in place for all Directors to provide cover departures disclosed and explained in the model and strategy.
against certain acts or omissions on behalf parent company financial statements.
A Deed Poll of Indemnity was executed in October 2015, indemnifying each of the Directors, and Company Secretary, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that they might incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
The Deed Poll of Indemnity is categorised as qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and remains in force for all past and present Directors of the Company.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping Disclosure of information to auditor adequate accounting records that are The Directors who held office at the date of sufficient to show and explain the parent approval of this Directors Report confirm companys transactions and disclose that, so far as they are each aware, there with reasonable accuracy at any time the is no relevant audit information of which financial position of the parent company the Companys auditor is unaware: and and enable them to ensure that its financial each Director has taken all the steps that statements comply with the Companies they ought to have taken as a Director to Act 2006.
They have general responsibility make themselves aware of any relevant for taking such steps as are reasonably audit information and to establish open to them to safeguard the assets of that the Companys auditor is aware the Group and to prevent and detect fraud of that information.
Auditor Under applicable law and regulations, The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, the directors are also responsible for has indicated willingness to continue in preparing a Strategic Report, Directors office and resolutions to reappoint it Report, Directors Remuneration Report and to authorise the Directors to fix its and Corporate Governance Statement that remuneration will be proposed at the complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the By Order of the Board, maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Mark Waters differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary Responsibility statement 6 March 2019 The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in Geraint Jones accordance with the applicable set of Chief Financial Officer accounting standards, give a true and fair 6 March 2019 view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
112 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
