Strategic Report Business Model How we do it Purpose Statement What sets us apart Admiral Groups purpose is to provide: GREAT PLACE TO WORK Good value financial products to We go out of our way to make this a GREAT place to work and our customers believe that if people like what they do, theyll do it better.
We have created an environment where Admiral employees look forward to Excellent and convenient service coming to work and providing great service to customers.
to all customers EFFICIENT CAPITAL EMPLOYMENT A great place for our people to Sharing risk with coand reinsurance partners is an important part work of Admirals business and these relationships are underpinned by Good returns for our shareholders strong underwriting results.
Sharing risk allows Admiral to only over time provide capital backing for a minority of its business: this results in a superior return on capital for Admiral shareholders whilst also providing protection for losses.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS What we do We are committed to returning excess capital to shareholders.
We believe that keeping management hungry for cash keeps them Motor, household, travel insurance focused on the most important aspects of the business.
We dont Price comparison starve our businesses, but neither do we allow them the luxury of excess capital.
Personal Loans and Car Finance FOCUS ON PROFITABILITY TURNOVER BY DIVISION Admiral continues to focus on bottom-line profitability both in UK Insurance 78% the short, medium and long term, and this perspective guides International insurance 16% the decisions we make across all of our business operations.
The Groups strategy is to build profitable and sustainable business Price Comparison 5% operations for the long term.
Other Group Items 1% CONTROLLED TEST & LEARN All our growth, at home and overseas, has been organic.
We have built each business from the ground up, identifying and understanding the opportunity, taking measured steps to test how well we understand the challenge ahead and the effectiveness of Total Turnover our solutions, and then to learn from that experience and from the 3.28bn experience of those who have tried other strategies.
Satisfied and 16 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Every day revolves around attracting, keeping and satisfying customers.
We value customers above everything else and strive to design products that customers want and that represent value for money.
How we maximise value Motivated Employees Great place to work for employees Voted Voted No.
1 56% best large Return on Risk Mitigation company to equity Attractive returns for shareholders work for in UK Focused Management Team Value for money products and excellent customer service 126p 98% Dividend customers would buy Sustainable Operations again Charitable giving and volunteering in the local community Effective Solutions 156,000 9 10 raised for customer Million Makers satisfaction Princes Trust score following a policy change Valued loyal customers Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
