ACCOUNTABILITY Nomination Committee report Introduction by Ken Hanna, Nomination Committee Chair Monitoring and reviewing the composition and balance of the Board and its Committees is key to the role of the Committee.
By doing so we ensure that Aggreko has the right structure, skills and diversity for the effective management of the Group.
The Nomination Committee is currently made up of all of the Non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent, in addition to myself as Chair.
I have been Chair of the Committee since my appointment as Chairman of Aggreko in April 2012, although I would not chair the Committee when it is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of Aggreko.
In 2018, we had two formal meetings to which we also invited The Nomination Committees role is to monitor the CEO.
and review the composition and balance of the Role of the Nomination Board and its Committees to ensure Aggreko Committee has the right structure, skills and diversity for Review the structure, size and the effective management of the Group.
composition including skills, knowledge, experience, diversity Ken Hanna and balance of Executive and NonNomination Committee Chair executive Directors of the Board and its Committees and make Meetings attended No.
of recommendations to the Board.
Members in 2018 Position meetings eligible to attend Ken Hanna Committee Chair 2 2 Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director 2 2 to ll Board vacancies.
Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director 2 2 Keep under review the time 1 Russell King Former Senior Independent commitment expected from the Director 1 1 Chairman and the Non-executive 2 Senior Independent Director Uwe Krueger 2 2 Directors.
Diana Lay eld Non-executive Director 2 2 Main activities of the Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 2 2 Nomination Committee Miles Roberts Non-executive Director 2 2 during the year 1 Russell King retired from the Board after the AGM in April 2018.
Appointment of a new Chief 2 Uwe Kreuger was appointed Senior Independent Director following the AGM in April 2018.
Financial Of cer We reported last year that Heath Drewett had joined Aggreko as CFO Areas of activity in 2018 Areas of focus for 2019 in January 2018 and as such he stood for election at the 2018 AGM.
Heath has Oversaw the induction of Heath Continued focus on succession successfully completed his first year Drewett as CFO.
In this time he has made Reviewed succession plans.
Monitor the work of the team a great effort to get familiar with the established to look at diversity businesses around the Group and make Monitored the work of the team across the Group.
his presence known to our employees, established to look at diversity across shareholders and the wider stakeholders.
Heath is an experienced CFO and Approved the terms of reappointment proven leader with experience in the of three Directors.
engineering, leisure, transportation Recommended the appointment and industrial sectors.
He has 30 years of two new Committee chairs.
of experience within various finance, corporate finance, business performance, financial and strategic planning roles.
Heath also has extensive international experience in both M&A and corporate development activities.
Heaths biography is set out in full on page 48.
Nomination Committee terms of reference: www.
com Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Senior Independent Director SID Nicola Brewer as Non-executive The Committee recommended that Director, for a second term of three Board Diversity Policy Uwe Krueger be appointed as SID years, to 25 February 2022.
A diverse Board makes prudent following the retirement of the previous Diana Lay eld, as Non-executive business sense and makes for SID, Russell King, on 26 April 2018.
Director, for a further year, expiring better corporate governance.
Uwe joined the Board in February 2015 on 1 May 2019.
Since Diana had already Diversity promotes the inclusion and his experience with other listed served for six years, under the UK of different perspectives and ideas companies and knowledge of Aggreko Corporate Governance Code, any and ensures that Aggreko has the means that Uwe is well quali ed for the proposal to extend a term beyond six opportunity to bene t from all role.
In making the appointment, the years should be subject to particularly available talent.
Committee carefully considered the rigorous review, and should take into question of the continued independence Aggreko seeks to maintain a Board account the need for progressive of Uwe Krueger.
It is clear to the comprising dynamic, expert and refreshing of the Board.
However, the Committee that he continues to be innovative individuals, who together Committee was unanimously of the independent in character, but the demonstrate our values and lead our view that Dianas tenure had not Committee gave particular thought behaviours through a diverse mix compromised her independence in as to whether his previous working of expertise, experience, skills and any way, and that it was important relationship with the CFO, Heath backgrounds.
We aim to ensure that to retain her market and financial Drewett, could affect his independence the skills and backgrounds collectively experience and knowledge of Aggreko, of judgement.
Among other matters, we represented on the Board re ect particularly in light of the retirement noted that Uwe Krueger had served on the diverse nature of the business of Russell King in April 2018. the Board of Aggreko for some three environment in which Aggreko years before the appointment of Heath Succession planning operates.
In particular, we look for Drewett: that he was considered The Committee met with the CEO and a range of technical, financial and independent on appointment: and Group HR Director to review succession market expertise.
We aim to balance that as part of our Board succession plans.
The focus of these discussions long corporate memory with new plan we had identi ed Uwe Krueger was to review our succession plans for insights from other elds.
For the as the potential successor as SID before the CEO and Executive Committee.
purposes of Board composition, the recruitment of Heath Drewett.
The Committee also monitors a diversity is taken to refer, but is not Moreover, he was not directly involved schedule on the length of tenure of the limited to, protected characteristics in the selection process for the CFO.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors covered by UK legislation: other In conclusion, we decided that the and the mix and skills of the Directors.
factors such as business experience appointment of a former colleague The Committee is satis ed that and geography will also be relevant.
as CFO would not compromise the adequate succession planning is in We monitor our net diversity but independence that Uwe Krueger had place for the Board and will keep do not set formal targets or quotas: clearly demonstrated during his time succession planning under review.
our focus is on nding talented on the Board or lead us to change our individuals from as wide a range Board composition and diversity view that Uwe Krueger was the right of backgrounds as possible.
Aggreko acknowledges the importance choice for SID.
of diversity and inclusion to the effective Aggreko is committed to a merit Other Committee changes functioning of the Board.
In 2017, we had based system for Board composition We recommended Barbara Jeremiah reviewed our approach to diversity to within a diverse and inclusive culture, to succeed Russell as Remuneration adopt a formal policy, extracted below.
which solicits multiple perspectives Committee Chair.
Barbara is an The policy was reviewed in 2018 to assess and views.
When assessing Board experienced Non-executive Director and con rm its effectiveness in composition or identifying suitable and has served on the Remuneration promoting a diverse business.
candidates for appointment or Committee since her appointment re-election to the Board, Aggreko will We also acknowledge that diversity in March 2017.
In 2017, Barbara took consider candidates on merit against extends beyond the boardroom and an active role in the shareholder objective criteria, having due regard the Board supports management in consultation process on the remuneration for the bene ts of diversity and the its efforts to build a diverse organisation.
policy and was considered well equipped needs of the Board.
Any search rm In 2018, we monitored the work of the for this role.
engaged to assist the Board or a team established to look at diversity Committee of the Board in identifying We also recommended the appointment on a Group-wide basis, determining candidates for appointment to the of Nicola Brewer to Chair the Ethics & what changes need to be made and Board will be speci cally directed to Corporate Responsibility Committee working with the business to implement include a diverse range of candidates from 1 January 2019. them over the next few years.
Reappointment of Directors As noted on page 47, we have reviewed Since the Committees last report, the the roles of the Board Committees Company has extended terms of in light of the 2018 UK Corporate appointment as follows: Governance Code.
This will include ensuring that the Nomination Ken Hanna, as Chairman, for a further Committee has further visibility of the three years, expiring on the conclusion succession pipeline below Executive of the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
Committee level and delegating formal monitoring of Aggrekos diversity policy to the Committee.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Audit Committee report Introduction by Ian Marchant, Audit Committee Chair Ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and determining whether the judgements taken by management are appropriate are key to the workings of the Committee.
This report provides an overview of the signi cant issues we considered.
This report also shares some insight into the work we have undertaken this year to assess the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor and oversee the Groups systems for internal control and risk management.
The Committee is currently made up of three Independent Non-executive Directors, including myself as Chair.
I have been a member of the Committee since November 2013 and was appointed The role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the as Chair of the Committee in April 2016.
I am a chartered accountant and, prior integrity of the Groups financial reporting and to my appointment as Chief Executive provide oversight of our systems for internal control of SSE 2002 to 2015, I served as Finance Director of SSE for four years and of and risk management.
Southern Electric for two and a half Ian Marchant years.
As a Committee, we bring an Audit Committee Chair appropriate balance of financial and accounting experience, together with Meetings attended No.
of a deep understanding of Aggrekos Members in 2018 Position meetings eligible to attend business and market sector.
All the Ian Marchant Committee Chair 3 3 members of the Committee have 1 recent and relevant financial experience.
Russell King Former Senior Independent Director 1 1 In 2018, we held three scheduled Diana Lay eld Non-executive Director 3 3 meetings.
The meetings are aligned to the Groups financial reporting Miles Roberts Non-executive Director 3 3 timetable, to allow suf cient time for 1 Russell King retired from the Board after the AGM in April 2018. full discussion of key topics and enable early identi cation and resolution of risks and issues.
We invited the Areas of activity in 2018 Areas of focus for 2019 Chairman of the Board, the CEO and the CFO to attend our meetings in 2018, Ensure proper application of new Ensured proper application of new together with the Group Financial accounting standards impacting accounting standards impacting Controller, Director of Internal Audit and the Group in 2019: IFRS 16. the Group in 2018 and 2019: IFRS 9, the KPMG audit partner.
Receive regular updates on the status of the internal control Monitored the review of the Speaking Role of the Audit Committee environment.
Up whistle-blowing process and Monitor the integrity of the financial improvements to associated Monitor the closure of outstanding statements, including reviewing procedures which were planned internal audit findings.
signi cant financial reporting issues for 2018. and judgements alongside the Monitor the position in relation Close monitoring of contract findings of the external auditor.
provisions and tax provisions Review the effectiveness of the Groups Continue monitoring of contract throughout the year, receiving systems for internal control, financial provisions and tax provisions detailed updates in 2018 at the reporting and risk management.
Advise the Board on the effectiveness Received regular updates on of the fair, balanced and understandable the status of the internal control review of the Annual Report.
Oversee the relationship with the Received an update on the external auditor, external audit implementation progress against process, nature and scope of the the refreshed 2018 cyber security external audit, including its strategy.
appointment, effectiveness, Monitored the closure of outstanding independence and fees.
Oversee the nature and scope of internal audit, ensuring coordination with the activities of the external auditor.
Audit Committee terms of reference: www.
com Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 Annual Report were: Area of judgement Reporting issue How did the Audit Committee address the judgement?
Conclusion and outcome Contract One of the most signi cant The Committee addressed contract provisions by considering We concluded that the provisions risks facing the Group is accounting judgements papers, presented by the Chief Financial judgements and estimates Power that of non-payment by Of cer, at its July 2018, December 2018 and February 2019 meetings.
with respect to the Groups Solutions customers under some These papers detailed the latest position of debtors outstanding at contract provisions were Utility of the larger contracts in the half year and year end respectively, including any cash received reasonable and appropriate.
our Power Solutions Utility against amounts invoiced during the year and post the reporting Overall, the Groups business.
The Group period end, and gave an assessment of the likelihood of future contract provision at policy is to consider receipts.
The Committee challenged management and discussed 31December 2018 was each signi cant debtor in detail the main changes during the period and assessed the $83million 2017: individually, within its adequacy of all the provisions.
The discussion focused on key $82million.
Although relevant context, taking customers in Africa, Yemen and Venezuela, where we continued the overall provision was into account a number to see delays in payments during the year.
in line with the prior year, of factors.
These factors In assessing the adequacy of the Groups overall provision, we re ecting the differing include, but are not considered whether it was both suf cient to cover the risks identi ed circumstances by customer, limited to, the political and also whether it was in excess of the risks identi ed.
Historically, the bad debt provision and economic conditions the Group has experienced a low level of bad debt write-offs.
However, against speci c customers in the relevant country, we do operate in countries within our Power Solutions Utility business in Africa, Yemen and the duration and quality where customer payments are more unpredictable and volatile, and Venezuela increased by of our relationship with where political and economic conditions mean that there is a risk of $6 million, while progress the customer, the age of default.
Therefore, the Groups bad debt history may not be indicative elsewhere during the year the outstanding debt of potential future outcomes.
led to a reduction in the and the customers provision against other In forming its view on the appropriateness of the Groups provision payment pro le with customers of $5million.
against its receivables balances, the Audit Committee discussed the us, together with any 15 most signi cant debtors in the Power Solutions Utility PSU More information on our relevant communication business, which accounted for 82% 2017: 78% of the total PSU risk pro le and mitigation exchanges with the overdue debtor value at 31 December 2018 before taking into account for failure to collect customer and other provisions or payment security guarantees.
At 31 December 2018, 81% payment or to recover relevant stakeholders 2017: 83% of the PSU impairment provision related to these top 15 assets can be found on throughout the year.
Among these debtors, the Group had a net exposure above page 44.
$40 million to one customer, a net exposure between $30-$40 million to two customers, a net exposure between $20-$30 million to four customers and a net exposure of less than $20 million to each of the others.
In addition to these PSU debtors, the Committee discussed the Groups overall exposure to Venezuela, which includes some outstanding balances within the Power Solutions Industrial business.
Given the current political uncertainty in Venezuela and the ongoing civil war in Yemen, the Committee considered in speci c detail the Groups net exposure including the private placement notes with PDVSA in Venezuela of $16 million and $10 million, respectively, in each of these countries.
These net exposure positions re ect a combination of bad debt provisions and payment security guarantees representing 78% and 59% of the gross receivable value in each of Venezuela and Yemen, together with a 75% fair value adjustment against the private placement notes with PDVSA.
While we believe that we remain relatively well positioned to recover these net exposure amounts when the current situation in each of the countries stabilises, we also recognise that there is a range of potential outcomes for each, both above and below the net exposure.
Net exposure is fide ned as the gross debtor value plus accrued revenue, less any payment security guarantees and bad debt provision.
KPMG also reported on these contract provisions at both the July 2018 and February 2019 meetings in the context of its half year review and year end audit.
In addition, the Committee is aware that the Executive Committee receives a report on contract exposures each month and has assessed the Groups processes for calculating and regularly monitoring contract risk provisions.
Direct and There is an ongoing The Committee addressed this matter by considering update papers We concluded that the Indirect tax dispute in relation to a tax tabled by the Chief Financial Of cer, which included reference to judgement and approach positionsassessment in Bangladesh.
updated legal opinions, at meetings in December 2018 and February were reasonable and Bangladesh The matter is in court and 2019.
These legal opinions con rm there have been no developments appropriate at this time.
is expected to take many on either our case or other similar cases.
We have As there have been no further developments, in line with expectations, strong legal opinion which the Audit Committee remains comfortable with the approach but supports our case: however, have speci cally requested further regular updates.
we recognise that this is a KPMG reported on this issue at the August 2018 meeting in the judgemental issue due context of the half year review and at the February 2019 meeting in the to the complexities and context of the year-end audit.
uncertainties of local tax legislation.
In addition to the primary areas of judgement outlined in the table above, the Committee also paid close attention to the following items during its assessment of Aggrekos financial reporting: We considered whether there was a risk of obsolescence in our fleet due to changes in market conditions and advances in technology and concluded that there were no issues.
We reviewed the impact of new accounting standards which applied to the Group from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 9 applies to financial instruments, addressing their classi cation, measurement and recognition.
Further detail is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
We also reviewed an initial impact assessment of IFRS 16, a new accounting standard that will apply to the Group from 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 applies to leases and further detail is provided on page 100.
We considered the appropriateness of carrying a deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses in Brazil and our ability to use these in the foreseeable future, taking into account current forecasts and secured long term contracts.
We also considered the overall level of provisions for uncertain tax matters, particularly in respect of historic exposure in our Power Solutions business.
Following completion of the above steps, we agreed to recommend the approval of the 2018 Annual and Interim Reports to the Board.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Audit Committee report continued For the 2018 Annual Report, this KPMG carried out its work using an Main activities of the Audit process included: overall materiality of 9 million, as stated Committee during the year in its report on page 87, and con rmed Review in December 2018, of a Financial reporting to the Committee that there were no summary paper on key messages During the course of the year, the material unadjusted misstatements.
Committee met with the external We also agreed with the external auditor and management as part of the auditor that it would inform us of any Feedback provided by Committee 2018 Annual and Interim Report approval unadjusted misstatements above members on a number of drafts process.
We reviewed the draft financial 0.45 million, as well as misstatements during January and February 2019. statements and considered a number below this amount that warranted Full draft provided to the Committee of supporting papers, including: reporting for qualitative reasons.
and Board seven days prior to the information presented by management Tenure February 2019 meetings to enable on signi cant accounting judgements KPMG was appointed by shareholders time for review and comment and to ensure all issues raised had been as the Groups Statutory Auditor in 2016 to provide a final opinion.
properly dealt with: key points of following a formal tender process.
The disclosure and presentation to ensure Comprehensive management and external audit contract will be put out to adequacy, clarity and completeness: statutory accounts processes, with tender at least every 10 years.
The external audit reports: documentation written con rmations provided by the Committee recommends the prepared to support the viability business unit senior management appointment of KPMG for 2019.
We statement and going concern teams on the health of the financial believe the independence and statements given on pages 45 and 101 control environment.
objectivity of the external auditor and and information presented by the effectiveness of the audit process are Con rmations provided by the management on the process safeguarded and strong.
The Company business unit senior management underpinning the fair, balanced and has complied with the Statutory Audit teams that the Performance Review understandable assessment and Services Order for the financial year text is a fair re ection of their business con rmation on page 85. under review.
During the year, the Group received Effectiveness A veri cation process, involving our an enquiry letter from the FRC, relating The Committee met with KPMG internal audit team, dealing with the to the 2017 Annual Report.
Details of on a number of occasions without factual content of the Annual Report.
the enquiry raised by the FRC and management present and the the Groups proposed response were Committee Chair also maintained A key accounting judgements paper discussed with the Committee prior regular contact with the audit partner covering contract and tax provisions throughout the year.
This enabled the to issuing the response.
Committee to closely monitor its work, included the commitment to make Following its review, the Committee ensure independence was maintained some limited modi cations and was of the opinion that the 2018 Annual and a successful external audit of the enhancements to our Annual Report Report is representative of the year 2018 Annual Report was carried out.
disclosures relating to the cash ow and presents a fair, balanced and statement, signi cant judgements, We also used an internal questionnaire understandable overview, providing pensions, related parties and working sent to Committee members, the the necessary information for capital explanations.
The FRC Business Unit Finance Directors and shareholders to assess the Groups subsequently closed its enquiry with Group Functional Heads in December position, performance, business no further action.
We have reviewed 2018: respondents were asked to rate model and strategy.
the adoption of these modi cations KPMGs effectiveness in a number of and enhancements in the 2018 Annual areas, including quality of processes, Report.
The FRC noted that its review External auditor audit team, audit scope and provides no assurance that the Report communications.
Results were collated The Committee is responsible for and Accounts are correct in all material and presented at the February 2019 making recommendations to the Board respects, and that the FRCs role is not meeting of the Committee for in relation to the appointment of the to verify the information provided, but discussion.
We also approve the to consider compliance with reporting that both KPMG and its audit processes audit plan, terms of engagement and requirements.
The FRCs review is based are considered to be effective, and fees, and assess their effectiveness.
that a good working relationship is on a review of the Annual Accounts Audit plan complemented by a suf ciently rigorous and does not bene t from detailed KPMG presented its audit plan at the and challenging audit approach.
The knowledge of the business.
July 2018 meeting and an update at Committee concurred with this view.
Fair, balanced and the December 2018 meeting, setting Non-audit services understandable reporting out the scope and objectives of the To safeguard the objectivity and Aggreko recognises its responsibility audit, together with an overview of the independence of the external auditor to present a fair, balanced and planned approach, an assessment of from becoming compromised, the understandable assessment in the Groups risks and controls, proposed Committee has a formal policy all of our reporting obligations.
areas of audit focus and coverage.
In governing the engagement of the This responsibility covers the Annual setting the audit plan, KPMG works with external auditor to provide non-audit Report and extends to the Interim internal audit and management at a services.
Non-audit services are normally Report and other regulatory Group and business unit level to identify limited to assignments that are closely announcements.
At the request risk areas for the audit to determine related to the annual audit or where the of the Board, the Committee has where audit effort should be focused.
work is of such a nature that a detailed considered whether, in its opinion, understanding of the Group is necessary.
the 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Any proposal to use the external auditor Internal audit continues to play a key The Committee has completed its for non-audit work requires prior role in assisting the Committee and, review of the effectiveness of the Groups approval of the CFO and, depending as last year, we asked internal audit to system of internal control, including on the nature of the service and fee provide assurance over managements risk management, during the year and involved, authorisation may also be assessment of the effectiveness of up to the date of this Annual Report in required from the Committee Chair the operation of controls within the accordance with the requirements of or the Committee.
We reviewed our Groups Register of Principal Risks.
the Guidance on Risk Management, non-audit services policy and agreed This assessment was based upon the Internal Control and related Financial that it was relevant, having last been results of audits undertaken during the and Business Reporting published by updated in 2017. year, by re ecting on the outstanding the FRC.
It con rms that no signi cant audit issues and in cooperation with failings or weaknesses were identi ed Non-audit fees are monitored by the the business unit controls teams.
No in the review for the 2018 financial year Committee and this year we were variances which would impact our risk and allowed us to provide positive satis ed that all non-audit work scores were identi ed in 2018. assurance to the Board to assist it in undertaken was in line with our policy making the statements required by and did not detract from the objectivity The Committee also maintains a the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and independence of the external programme of in-depth review into Where areas for improvement were auditor.
The majority of the non-audit speci c financial, operational and identi ed, processes are in place to work carried out by KPMG during the regulatory areas of the business.
ensure that the necessary action is year related to the June 2018 Interim These reviews are critical to the role taken and that progress is monitored.
In 2018, we spent 1,361,000 on of the Committee, as they allow us After some low level incidents we audit fees 2017: 1,189,000 and 46,000 to meet key members of the encouraged management to strengthen on non-audit fees 2017: 59,000, this management team and provide controls around local procurement and accounted for 3% 2017: 5% of the overall independent challenge to their this work is well underway.
Areas reviewed in 2018 of the fees paid to the external auditor included: are set out in Note 6 to the Accounts.
Internal audit Reviewing our cyber security Monitoring and review of the scope, The non-audit services policy is available arrangements with the Chief extent and effectiveness of the activity of on our website: www.
com Information Of cer to understand internal audit is an agenda item at each global trends, the evolving threat Committee meeting.
We approve the landscape, and the progress on Risk management annual audit plan prior to the start of delivering the cyber security and internal control each financial year and receive a detailed programme, including employee The objective of our risk framework is report from the Group Internal Audit awareness training.
to provide the Board, Audit Committee Director on audit activities, audit results Receiving a detailed presentation and Executive Committee with a useful and remedial actions at each meeting.
on the management of financial risk management tool to capture, assess and The audit plan is risk-based and includes across the Group, focusing on the proactively manage the risks we face.
themed reviews based on an assessment performance of the financial control Our risk management process also of the strategic risks faced by the Group environment during 2018, progress ensures that we take account of our along with cyclical coverage of key made to further improve identi ed business model and strategy to ensure business processes and locations.
We weaknesses during the year and a alignment with our risk appetite, also speci cally followed up on a revised assurance strategy for 2019. framework and controls.
In turn, this selection of areas where audit actions enables us to fully comply with the were outstanding to ensure the overall Receiving an overview of the volume UK Corporate Governance Code control environment was still adequate.
and geographical split of assurance requirement for a viability statement.
activities undertaken across the Group The process is designed to manage to measure the effectiveness of Speaking Up rather than eliminate risk, and can financial, operational and compliance We encourage all employees to speak only provide reasonable and not controls.
This included a summary of up if they have any concerns.
We have absolute assurance against material high priority findings identi ed from an external independent hotline which misstatement or loss.
these reviews alongside actions taken can be used by all employees to report to address these.
The Board assumes ultimate any concerns anonymously and responsibility for the effective con dentially.
All reports received are The Group has in place an internal management of risk across the Group, investigated thoroughly.
In December control environment to protect the determining our risk appetite as well 2018, we received a brie ng on the business from material risks identi ed.
as ensuring that each business unit types of reports received during the year Management is responsible for implements appropriate internal and the outcome of the investigations establishing and maintaining adequate controls.
The Board has delegated conducted.
We reviewed trends internal controls over financial reporting responsibility for oversight of risk identi ed from these reports and and the Committee has responsibility management to the Committee.
speci c actions arising from for ensuring the effectiveness of those The Committee provides oversight investigations conducted in response controls.
In 2018, the Committee by reviewing the effectiveness of the to the reports received.
continued to receive assurance that Groups systems for risk management, financial controls were in place for internal control and financial reporting.
items on the Group Risk Register.
In 2018, we worked closely with the Group Risk Committee, receiving regular reports which enabled us to review and challenge the risk management framework, review the effectiveness of the control environment and approve the methodology for the viability statement.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee report Introduction by Ken Hanna, Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair Aggreko aims to conduct its business with integrity, honesty and transparency.
We expect all Aggreko employees, consultants and those acting on behalf of Aggreko to adopt these standards.
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting business fairly and professionally and we are committed to maintaining these values in all of our business dealings.
We recognise that our business is exposed to potential risks of unethical conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts and because standards of integrity are not consistent across all of the countries in which we operate.
However, we believe we have a robust The role of the Ethics & Corporate Responsibility compliance programme in place which Committee is to ensure that Aggreko conducts allows us to manage these risks effectively.
business with integrity and transparency and The effectiveness of the compliance programme is monitored by the Ethics in accordance with thelaw.
In future it will also & Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Until December 2018, the Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee was Ken Hanna made up of three Independent NonEthics & Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair executive Directors, with myself as Chair.
Nicola Brewer was appointed as the Chair Meetings attended No.
of Members in 2018 Position meetings eligible to attend of the Committee from 1 January 2019.
1 Ken Hanna Committee Chair 3 3 I have been a member of the Committee since its first meeting in February 2011 Diana Lay eld Non-executive Director 3 3 and became Chair of the Committee in 2 Dame Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director 3 3 April 2012.
I continue to have an interest Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director 3 3 in the work of this Committee and look forward to working with Nicola in 1 Ken Hanna was Chair of the Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee until 31 December 2018. achieving the Committees objectives.
This Committee Report is therefore presented by Ken.
Ken continues to be a member of the Committee.
You will receive a report from Nicola on 2 Dame Nicola Brewer was appointed as the Chair of the Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee progress of the Committee in the 2019 from 1 January 2019.
In 2018, we held three meetings.
We Areas of activity in 2018 Areas of focus for 2019 invited the Head of Compliance, the Reviewed the outcome of the Implement the plan for workforce Group Legal Director and the CEO to regional compliance risk engagement in line with the 2018 attend all meetings.
Oversaw the review, amendment and Conduct a review of the policies Role of the Ethics & Corporate communication of the Third-Party which fall under the remit of the Responsibility Committee Sales Representative Policy.
Advise the Board on the development Oversaw the completion of internal Receive feedback on the of strategy and policy on ethical investigations.
Monitored the actions taken Monitor the completion of refresher Advise the Board on steps to be taken to address sanctions risks.
ethics training across the business.
to establish a culture of integrity and honesty in all of the Groups business Oversaw the implementation of dealings.
measures designed to address risks associated with the new corporate Oversee the Groups policies and criminal offence of the Failure to procedures for the identi cation, Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
assessment, management and reporting of ethical risk.
Oversee the Groups policies and procedures to prevent persons associated with the Group from engaging in unethical behaviour.
Monitor and review the operation of the Groups ethics policies and procedures.
Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Committee terms Monitor and review all payments made of reference: www.
com to third-party sales consultants.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information payments made to, third-party sales we instructed an independent review Main activities of the Ethics consultants.
This included an overview of our compliance programme in order & Corporate Responsibility of the additional measures introduced to benchmark the framework against Committee during the year to further monitor and control the use regulatory guidance and leading Third-party monitoring of third-party sales representatives.
We industry practice, and to identify any We recognise that it is not just our also reviewed and approved a revised gaps or potential areas for improvement.
employees who could be exposed to policy governing the use of third-party This review con rmed that our ethics risks but also our third-party sales sales representatives.
We are pleased compliance programme is well consultants, agents and joint venture to observe the continued focus of the established across the business and JV partners.
The conduct of our business in monitoring all activities there is a clear tone, set from the top, third-party sales consultants remains a in this area.
on our high ethical standards.
The review signi cant risk to Aggreko.
The number identi ed some areas for improvement Sanctions of third-party sales consultants, agents to further enhance the compliance The introduction and extension of and JV partners used by the business programme including targeted risk sanctions in some of the countries in has reduced over the past few years but assessments on speci c anti-bribery which we operate potentially attracts there are circumstances in which sales and corruption risks.
These assessments increased risk for the business.
We consultants continue to be required to were completed in 2018 and we reviewed received brie ngs at each meeting this support some areas of the business.
the outcome of these assessments.
year on development in relation to We have risk management measures In 2018, we also instructed an sanctions, the potential impact to the in place which require all third-party independent review of the policy and business and the actions being taken sales consultants, agents and JV procedures in place to manage the risks to manage potential risks.
This included partners engaged by Aggreko to associated with the use of third-party a review of the sanctions developments conduct business in compliance with sales representatives.
This review in relation to Russia, Venezuela and Iran.
the standards set out in our Ethics Policy con rmed that the process is well and allow us to monitor compliance Effectiveness of the compliance designed to effectively identify and with these requirements.
We also programme manage potential risks.
have controls in place in relation to We are committed to ensuring that Read more about how we manage the remuneration of third-party sales our compliance programme remains our anti-bribery and corruption risk consultants and we monitor all robust and is in line with best practice.
We continually monitor the effectiveness of the policies and procedures and In 2018, we received a brie ng from the recommend areas where further Power Solutions MD on the outcome of improvements could be made.
In 2017 his review of all arrangements with, and An overview of our compliance programme: Our compliance programme is Policy and we require our sales and charitable donations require coordinated by our Head of Compliance consultants to con rm compliance senior management approval and are and Compliance Manager with support with the policy annually.
We also recorded centrally and monitored by from the business units and the central provide ethics training to our sales the Head of Compliance.
Our compliance programme consultants to ensure they remain alert enables us to challenge any donations has a number of elements designed to to potential risks.
We have controls in or sponsorships which could be ensure that we effectively manage place in relation to the remuneration perceived as potentially inappropriate.
compliance risks: of consultants and we monitor all Speaking Up payments to sales consultants to ensure Ethics Policy We encourage all employees to speak that the remuneration structure does Every employee receives a copy of the up if they have any concerns.
We have not incentivise unethical behaviour.
Ethics Policy when they join Aggreko.
an independent compliance hotline This gives us a robust framework to This policy sets out the standards operated by an external agency.
This enable us to clearly understand who and behaviours we expect from our multi-lingual hotline is available to all our third-party sales representatives are employees and is an effective tool to employees and allows any employee and the activities they have undertaken allow us to challenge any improper who has any concerns to report them on our behalf.
This policy also enables behaviours identi ed.
It is supported on an anonymous basis.
All reports are us to avoid engaging with third parties by a number of supplementary policies, followed up, and we regularly analyse who do not meet our ethical standards.
procedures and guidelines to cover the types of report we receive.
Where due diligence, gifts and hospitality, We have a Supplier Code of Conduct appropriate, our Group Internal Audit charitable donations, facilitation which sets out the standards we expect team is asked to investigate the issue payments, con icts of interest and from all other suppliers to Aggreko and report on the outcome.
We provide training to and we require suppliers to con rm Modern slavery all employees on these policies and adherence to these standards.
Any We apply high employment standards we regularly monitor compliance with suppliers who do not agree to the across our business, complying with these policies to obtain assurance that standards or an equivalent standard relevant employment, health and safety the policies continue to work effectively.
will not be engaged by Aggreko.
and human rights laws to ensure our Training Gifts, entertainment and hospitality employees are safe.
We also expect our Every employee receives training, We have a clear approval process for suppliers to adopt a similar approach which is regularly refreshed, via our gifts, entertainment and hospitality in relation to the protection of their multi-lingual online ethics compliance offered by, or given to, Aggreko workers.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct training programme.
All gifts, entertainment and sets out the minimum standards training is supplemented by additional hospitality above a nominal value are we require from them.
It speci cally ethics workshops with senior recorded centrally and monitored by requires our suppliers to comply with management, which gives us comfort the Head of Compliance.
This policy workers fundamental rights including that our employees remain alert to risks.
enables us to challenge any proposed standards of pay, working hours and gifts or hospitality which could be freedom of association.
Our modern Third-party risks perceived as potentially inappropriate.
slavery statement, available to read All of our sales consultants and agents at www.
com, provides are comprehensively reviewed before Sponsorship and charitable more detail on the approach we take they are engaged and this exercise donations in relation to modern slavery.
is refreshed at least every two years.
We have a clear approval process for Our sales consultants are contractually sponsorships and charitable donations required to comply with our Ethics made by Aggreko.
All sponsorships Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
