OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Our strategic priorities will enable us to succeed in a changing world Since we first set out our strategy in 2015, it is clear that our markets have changed, and will continue to do so, and we have evolved our strategy in response to this.
This year we reviewed our strategy, the markets in which we operate and the returns we can expect to make.
We have con rmed that our evolved 2015 strategy remains relevant, although we have reduced our medium term ROCE target.
Our four priorities to drive growth Continued focus on key sectors Real-time pricing governance Focus on key sectors, using our System investment to improve technical capability to enable customer experience us to tackle higher value, more Deployment of end-to-end complex challenges customer journey systems Hybrid solutions using solar power and battery storage to regulate Customer focus Remote monitoring and and integrate power data analytics Tailoring solutions Improved customer service Sales and marketing discipline to improve and product development and process enhancements customer Segmentation and channel experience development, including telesales and e-commerce Continued focus on reducing the Hybrid solutions and storage total cost of energy integration Fuel ef ciency, hybrid solutions Integrating renewables, and emissions storage and thermal assets Deploy to existing sites to improve Complex sector-speci c applications ef ciency and reliability leveraging the technical capability Technology investment of our people Creating speci c applications through Reduce the relevant experience total cost of energy through innovation Remote monitoring platform and data analytics capability More centralised fleet management Deploy Rental Solutions systems to drive utilisation into Power Solutions Industrial Back-of ce and process ef ciencies Remote monitoring and data analytics Cost reduction programme to deliver Reduce maintenance costs 50m of savings Capital ef ciency Improve utilisation Reduction in working capital Optimise deployment of resources Living Always Orange Staying safe and professional at all times Our values underpin all we do and how we behave Safety is the top priority for our people Extensive internal communication ensures that this is fully embraced Professionalism remains core to our reputation and customer Expert people Nurturing our full potential relationships Valuing our people, incentivising Cultivate a high them, monitoring their performance performance and enabling them to achieve organisation greater things Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Plans to improve our returns Improvements to ROCE will be driven in each of the three business segments As part of our 2018 strategy and markets review, we built detailed plans to enable us to meet our revised Group target for mid-teens ROCE in 2020.
While there is considerable overlap, particularly between Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial, which are subject to many of the same drivers, the detailed plans for improved ROCE are speci c to each division, as set out below: Rental Solutions Power Solutions Power Solutions Industrial Utility Operating pro t Sector focus and specialisation Higher value, complex solutions New real-time pricing governance systems Remote asset monitoring to reduce unplanned downtime Data analytics to reduce servicing costs New customer journey systems Introduction of e-commerce Sales disciplines driving revenue growth and margin improvement Cost disciplines to improve margins Cost reduction programme Capital employed Global fleet and inventory management Capital expenditure discipline Utilisation improvements Billing and collections under spotlight and part of the sales process Over the following pages we report on each of our strategic priorities in more detail... Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Customer focus Tailoring our solutions to improve our customer experience Being particular about the sectors we target Offering specialist solutions Being simple to do business with Strongly diversi ed but Our approach Customer-focused disciplines focused on seven key sectors and systems, making us By being particular about the sectors we serve, we can develop our simpler to do business with What our customers have in common expertise, create speci c applications, is the critical need for power and We enhance our sales capability and offer relevant experience and temperature control to solve through a bespoke training advice to ensure that customers get complex problems and provide programme, supported by a new a tailored solution.
online tool which provides detailed knowledge of our products, our Utilities We are also widely geographically sectors, delivery and logistics, Expertise in high voltage and grid diversi ed.
Rental Solutions operates as well as ethics and safety.
connections, providing solutions in North America, Northern Europe, from emergency response to base Continental Europe and Australia Our Market Intelligence Platform load power.
Paci c. Power Solutions, both gives us an accessible, in-depth Industrial and Utility, operate in less understanding of the market Petrochemical & rening well developed markets in Latin dynamics affecting customers in Power and temperature control America, the Middle East, Asia, each of our geographic markets, solutions to optimise processes Africa and Eurasia.
helping us to focus on the greatest and improve production rates.
It uses Our customers requirements range Events data from multiple sources to give our from short-term, simpler, transactional A valued and trusted partner, offering sales teams a detailed view of their rental of equipment, to providing high-prole event knowledge, costmarkets, factoring in economic and temporary power for three to six ef cient design capability combined political stability: ability of customers months where the complexity with exibility and reliability.
to pay: the electricity supply and depends on the sector and geography, demand balance: and fuel availability to longer-term projects where we may Building services & construction and pricing.
be providing a solution for anything Provision of reliable power, heating, up to three years, or even beyond.
cooling and dehumidication solutions Our enhanced CRM customer to our customers in construction, relationship management has The majority of our revenue is derived services and contracting.
been rolled out and gives us a through our ability to manage and better understanding of customer Oil & gas deliver increasingly complex, higherrequirements by analysing our Solutions where the grid is unavailable, value solutions.
This may include the operating history and service provision to eliminate bottlenecks and monetise provision of off-grid, low cost or green and is increasing internal collaboration gas by-products, from exploration power, a high level of reliability and the speed of our service delivery.
whatever the operating conditions, immediate response during For more transactional sales, we are Mining emergencies or sector-speci c evolving our e-commerce platform, Fully exible, cost-effective solutions problem solving, while the balance providing a more agile, cost-effective for every stage of the mining lifecycle.
of revenue comprises shorter, more telesales channel and a better service Manufacturing transactional rental contracts.
Alongside this, our new Solutions to enhance processes and system enables real-time pricing, overcome power and temperature building in much more disciplined control challenges, reducing pricing governance, which should costly downtime.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Challenge Powering the 985km The Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games captivate length of cabling millions of people around the world, and the 2018 Winter Olympic event in South Korea was the biggest ever.
An event of this scale demands a signi cant amount of power.
95 and Paralympic Given the environment and conditions, we knew experts on site deploying equipment on site would be very dif cult Games for all involved and that it would be challenging to 0 -4 C guarantee the reliable service Aggreko is renowned for.
average temperature Solution Our experts devised a turnkey solution that consisted 20 of 140MW: 232 of our containerised generators and 985km of cabling.
We stationed 95 of our engineers on venues powered site: both before, and throughout the Games to ensure that power levels were optimised and constant and the equipment continued to operate in the face of extreme temperatures.
Impact With the successful implementation of our power solution to supply the Games, we delivered on our customers requirements.
This meant that thousands of competitors could entertain the worldwide audience watching the action unfold.
Remote monitoring and data Measuring our performance analytics are bene ting customer service by improving our management of downtime, servicing Customer loyalty Customer activity and the ef cient running of our Measure Measure equipment.
This also enhances our We use an industry standard known Group average power megawatts understanding of our equipment and as Net Promoter Score NPS to on hire.
the sharing of knowledge across the measure and benchmark our Group, which feeds back into the Relevance performance against competitors development of our products and Average megawatts on hire across the and other B2B organisations.
year provides a good measure of the Relevance activity of the business globally.
A Voice of Customer programme It is important that we understand is transforming how we measure Target the extent to which we exceed our our performance through the eyes We will not increase average megawatts customers expectations.
The statistical of our customer.
This programme on hire at the expense of price and insight we now collect is driving our demonstrates that Aggreko listens by this KPI should always be considered customer-focused change agenda delivering greater transparency and alongside our financial metrics.
to enable us to be simple to do clarity on what to tackle and improve business with.
Performance across our business at both a local During the year we have seen a very and global level by tracking the Target slight improvement in the average customer experience throughout Sustainable improvements in the NPS megawatts on hire.
However, the table the contract lifecycle rather than just over time.
below also shows that over the past five measuring the customer experience Performance years this metric has been fairly steady.
With the introduction of multiple This demonstrates the resilience of touch-point surveys this year, through our business and the strength of our the Voice of Customer programme, our products and brand.
pure NPS performance is not comparable with the NPS scores previously reported which only measured performance post-transaction.
We know that our performance is in the top 5% of B2B service organisations on a global basis, and we strive to improve the customer experience further.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Technology investment Reducing the total cost of energy through innovation Developing competitive con gurable products Smarter use of connected systems and data analytics Integrating renewable and storage technology We are encouraged by the We work closely with our strategic An innovative approach opportunity to provide solutions suppliers and, using market leading to reducing costs and or into the developing market for but established technology, we design emissions renewables that require complex and assemble our fleet in a modular, We use our in-house technical control systems to integrate existing mobile format, typically using 20-foot expertise, understanding of local power sources with battery storage to shipping containers which facilitate emissions requirements on a effectively manage security of supply.
transport logistics and lower costs.
country by country basis, and We continue to integrate Younicos, We are increasing the longevity ability to innovate to achieve savings which we acquired in July 2017.
As part of our fleet with the support of our and or reduced emissions for our of this integration, we have merged remote data monitoring capability customers.
Our knowledge of the our Manufacturing & Technology and and data analytics.
Our supplier regulatory requirements and the Global Solutions teams, to create agreements cover the life of the environments in which the fleet Global Products & Technology.
This assets, but we have scope to reduce operates has signi cantly will drive innovation with sales and the initial build cost as well as strengthened our capability to adapt delivery managed by our existing planned and unplanned maintenance.
to the changing market conditions.
divisions, Rental Solutions and The performance data collected on We have implemented a process to Power Solutions.
our equipment provides valuable capture and manage our intellectual insight into the optimum operating property resulting from our design conditions to bene t our customers.
Flexibility and reliability of and operations.
The in-house our fleet driving utilisation Part of our cost saving programme design of our equipment and the is reducing planned maintenance development of unique, tailored Increasing utilisation is a key focus by introducing a condition-based solutions for our customers, for improving our returns.
some of which are patented, is modular and mobile, so it can be have considerable value and are con gured to provide any number shared globally across Aggreko.
of different solutions and moved to where it is needed around the world, which ensures a quick response as well as optimum utilisation.
Upgrading our existing fleet to improve ef ciency and offer greater choice Diesel Gas Hybrid Renewables HFO Average MW on hire 5,296MW on hire 1,332MW on hire 8MW on hire 31MW on hire Integration of new Refurbished 31% of Addition of 323MW Contract in Eritrea Addition of 181MW technology our 1MW fleet to G3 of Next Generation solar and diesel of HFO to our fleet Gas since 2016 since 2016 Bene ts 5% improvement 11% improvement Emissions reduced by 8% improvement in fuel ef ciency in fuel ef ciency 10-13% in ef ciency vs. G3 15% improvement 33% improvement in Provides a reduction Modular and mobile in power output power output at lower in the overall total cost HFO offering using capital cost of energy proven engine Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Challenge Providing clean, 20MW St Croix, part of the Virgin Islands, has a long-term energy power plan, which includes revamping its current ageing and uninterrupted inef cient power generation infrastructure.
In 2017 one of its power generators suffered mechanical failure and $6m power to an island a new power plant was required to avoid power shortfalls.
saving in the first The Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority required two years community a solution for the many businesses, homes and critical infrastructure that keep the island running.
It also needed cleaner energy, to cut costs and to comply with Environmental Protection Agency EPA regulations.
Solution Aggreko is delivering 20MW of power to replace the defective plant from March 2019, using Lique ed Petroleum Gas LPG powered Next Generation Gas NGG generators.
Our new power package comprises 1.2MW power modules to maximise exibility, so the islands unique night and day demands can be met.
Impact This solution will not only bring reliable power to the people of St Croix, but it also lowers emissions, providing cleaner power for this idyllic island and, most importantly, at a lower total cost of energy to both our customer and its end users.
The island itself will bene t from savings of around $6million in the first two years.
Mitigating our environmental Measuring our performance impact In 2018, 99% of our greenhouse gas Power fleet composition Fleet size and composition emissions came from the operation Measure of our fleet and we see it as our Total power fleet size in MW, split responsibility to mitigate the carbon 10,009MW between generation type diesel, footprint of our products where we diesel G3, gas, NGG and HFO.
Three main factors which drive 5 our emissions are the fuel type our 4 1 Relevance customers use: the pattern of their Our strategy is to grow ahead of the usage: and the fuel ef ciency of market.
To remain competitive we have 3 our fleet.
to offer our customers cheaper and cleaner sources of energy that can be Our equipment and processes are adapted to meet their needs.
The best designed to comply with applicable 2 way to do this is through more fuellaws, regulations and industry efficient engines and using cheaper standards wherever we operate in and cleaner fuels where appropriate.
In addition, we constantly explore new ways of reducing 2018 2017 Target emissions from our fleet and Increasing proportions of our market 1.
Diesel 62% 64% increasing fuel ef ciency, and we leading products in fuel ef ciency, 2.
Diesel G3 16% 14% regularly review product technologies the diesel G3 and NGG engine, and that we can adopt into our product 3.
Gas 17% 18% introducing clean energy sources such portfolio including bio-fuels, fuel cells as solar and storage.
NGG 3% 2% and waste heat recovery.
HFO 2% 2% Performance We also work to reduce the impact During the year we have refurbished 2017 total: 9.9GW of other environmental effects of more diesel engines to the G3 and our operations, such as refrigerant introduced more NGG engines.
We have emissions and noise pollution, in also begun to introduce solar, although which we have made signi cant this remains immaterial in the context advances using custom-built of the overall fleet at this stage.
acoustic enclosures, high performance isolation and attenuation systems to reduce noise.
Read more about our greenhouse gas emissions on page 83 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Capital ef ciency Optimise deployment of resources Being mobile and modular Getting the very maximum out of our assets Striving for the most competitive cost base with high financial gearing.
Therefore, Capital allocation strategy Improved operational we target gearing of around one times ef ciency Effective capital allocation is critical net debt to EBITDA, recognising from to delivering value given the capital We have, over the past few years, time to time it may be higher as intensive nature of our business.
This removed duplication by streamlining investment opportunities present keeps the business focused on return back of ce processes through themselves.
At the end of 2018, on capital employed as a key metric for signi cant savings in procurement net debt to EBITDA was 1.3 times ensuring we deliver long-term value.
disciplines and improved productivity 2017: 1.2 times.
During the year, in HR policies to align performance Our approach to allocating our capital cash ows from operations were and remuneration.
However, there is is disciplined both in terms of capex 423 million 2017: 450million.
more to be done yet to improve and working capital, and we have a operational ef ciency.
ROCE hurdle rate for all new projects.
Optimising the deployment A key objective is to improve our We are targeting improved operating of our assets to improve performance in working capital ef ciency in Rental Solutions and utilisation management.
Power Solutions Industrial through Our scale brings operational ef ciencies the sharing of best practice.
This Our capital allocation is focused on and minimises our capital costs, but we includes extending effective customerorganic investment and we do not have further opportunity to improve journey and remote asset monitoring expect to make acquisitions unless the utilisation of our assets.
Measures systems from Rental Solutions to the rationale for scale or capability are in place to improve utilisation Power Solutions Industrial and is compelling.
including more centralised fleet introducing data analytics to We remain committed to a sustainable management, making it easier reduce costs of regular servicing and ordinary dividend and, where we have to deploy fleet across the world, maintenance in both business units.
excess capital will look to distribute particularly from Utility projects to Our planned cost reduction it to our shareholders.
Subject to the faster growing businesses programme, which is focused on shareholder approval, the proposed Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Power Solutions Utility, is expected final dividend of 17.74 pence 2017: Industrial.
to achieve net savings of 50 million 17.74 pence, combined with the interim Capital expenditure is allocated where in 2021.
The programme includes dividend of 9.38 pence 2017: 9.38 it can deliver the best returns over the condition-based maintenance to reduce pence, will result in a full year dividend long term.
We reduced our investment servicing costs: procurement savings of 27.12 pence 2017: 27.12 pence per in new fleet by 50 million, comparing through the extension of our spare Ordinary Share.
2018 with 2017, and we expect to parts supplier base: optimisation of fleet Our aim is to maintain a balance sheet maintain fleet capex at a similar level in logistics and project manning: a review structure that safeguards our financial 2019.
While there is the opportunity to of regional of ce and support function position through economic cycles.
improve the utilisation of our existing locations and the improvement of Given the proven ability of the business fleet, particularly in Power Solutions sales productivity through training to fund organic growth from operating Utility, we expect capital expenditure to and development.
cash ows, together with the nature remain below depreciation this year.
of our business model, we believe it is Asset monitoring and condition-based appropriate to run the business with a servicing reduce fleet redundancies, modest amount of debt.
However, given helping to extend the working life of our high operational gearing we do not the assets.
believe it is appropriate to couple this Net debt to EBITA calculation is on page 142 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Challenge 32 remote 20,000km The State of Amazonas is the largest in Brazil, it is isolated of river network used and predominantly rain forest.
While most of the area Amazonian to carry the generators is connected by the river Amazon, including the 60municipalities overseen by the areas capital city, communities Manaus, this is not an area that is easy to access.
8 barges Therefore the national grid struggles to provide the commissioned needed power power all the communities needs.
Solution 65MW While the grid could not get there, we could by oating of power provided 65 generators up the Amazon on eight barges that covered about 20,000km of river network.
65MW of power is being delivered to 32 remote locations under a 15-year contract.
This was one of the more challenging projects we have undertaken over the years, but it was also one of the most rewarding, clearly demonstrating our can-do attitude.
Impact 32 isolated communities received the long-term security of supply they need to thrive.
Among the communities that will be supported over the 15-year contract is Parintins, Amazonas second city: Mara, a settlement located within a Sustainable Development Reserve: and Coari, which needs to power its gas industry.
Focus on reducing Measuring our performance working capital Our Group-wide programme Power Solutions: Capital ef ciency to improve our working capital Industrial utilisation Measure management has seen some Fleet utilisation by business unit.
71% Relevance Receivables remain a key focus, we We are a capital intensive business and still have some customers in Africa, 2018 71% in order to generate strong returns on Venezuela and Yemen in particular 2017 69% our capital investment our fleet needs who are taking longer to pay owing to be well utilised.
Across our businesses 2016 63% to issues of liquidity and access to we use megawatt utilisation as the 2015 65% foreign currency.
We believe that metric average MW on hire divided 2014 65% with the introduction of clear targets, by the total fleet size in MW.
increased frequency and levels of review, together with the addition of Target Power Solutions: further resources to focus on this area, In our Rental Solutions and Power Utility utilisation we are beginning to make progress.
Solutions Industrial businesses we are targeting utilisation of 60-70%, while in We have begun to adopt best our Power Solutions Utility business we 66% practice principles in our supply target over 80%.
chain management and our efforts 2018 66% on payables have delivered Performance 2017 73% improvements.
In 2018 we saw utilisation in our Rental 2016 79% Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial In 2018, we increased our focus on 2015 77% businesses improve as our business inventory management with actions 2014 76% priority initiatives helped grow our including the systematisation and businesses.
We need to see further automation of inventory buying across improvements to meet our targets, but Rental Solutions: the Group and the centralisation of the progress is encouraging.
Lower order Rental Solutions utilisation inventory management to ensure intake and a higher level of off-hires in we are utilising stock more ef ciently 2018 resulted in a fall in the utilisation across all our geographies.
We are of our Power Solutions Utility fleet.
62% also working closely with suppliers to establish consignment stock 2018 62% arrangements where we can and 2017 56% proactively working on stock sales 2016 52% and buy-backs.
2015 55% 2014 57% Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED Expert people Cultivating a highperformance organisation Living Always Orange Nurturing our full potential Staying safe and professional at all times At Aggreko we believe our Creating a high-performance Operating safely and culture is a strategic lever for culture Living Always Orange responsibly at all times growth and Always Orange Our people have a good We continue to promote Standard understanding of our Always Orange Zero, setting the foundation for how was implemented in April 2017 culture and the important part it plays we manage risks to ensure we stay to fide ne the culture we in helping us to grow.
83% of our safe and professional at all times need.
Our four values and people stated they agreed with this across the world.
Thirteen speci c their respective day-to-day statement in our 2018 employee HSE risk aspects directly related to our behaviours govern the way survey Be Heard, up 3% on 2017. people and our business are being embedded to ensure we are staying in which we work, remain We expect all our people to act like safe and responsible.
safe and professional, develop owners and have increased our commercial acumen through We have created a Security Incident the expertise of our people, the virtual ROCE learning and Reporting app for our people, in uence our social interaction interactive quiz on our internal wherever they are, to effectively report across our markets and business strategy microsite.
a security incident at any time.
ultimately allow us to deliver We focus on the importance of In our Be Heard employee survey, our business objectives.
managing our assets as well as the 97% of our people state that they more obvious area of improving would use their stop-work authority operating pro t, thereby increasing if a colleague placed themselves in the understanding of the levers we immediate danger or they personally can exercise to in uence ROCE.
were tasked to do something that was unsafe.
Recognising the importance of the technical capability of our We have introduced a Being Expert people to serve our customers, with our Data policy to ensure we and the importance of our brand, comply with the new data protection we continually invest in ongoing regulation and that our people do training and development, and the right thing when they handle sharing of experience.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Be Together Asking the best of each other, Our Always Orange harnessing our scale and diverse culture is supported skills to grow stronger together.
by our values and Be Expert their respective Using our blend of experience, behaviours expertise and planning to keep us ahead of the game.
Be Dynamic Using our entrepreneurial passion to deliver and make great things happen.
Be Innovative Learning from the world for a better today and for great leaps tomorrow.
Nurturing our full potential Measuring our performance The 2018 Be Heard Employee Engagement Survey achieved a Safety Employee satisfaction very high engagement score of 76% up 1% on last year with 88% of staff Measure Measure similar to last year declaring an Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR.
overall pride in working at Aggreko.
Relevance Relevance Lower scoring areas were on the topics Rigorous safety processes are absolutely It is the attitude, skill and motivation of of remuneration and work-life balance.
essential if we are to avoid accidents or our people which makes the difference The feedback helps us focus our efforts incidents which could cause injury to between mediocre and excellent to make Aggreko an even better place people and damage to property and performance.
We monitor permanent to work and we are committed to reputation.
The main KPI we use to employee turnover as a proxy for how improving our scores across all areas.
measure safety performance is LTIFR our employees feel.
It is measured as With the establishment of our Value which is calculated by dividing the the number of employees who leave the Difference team, we are continuing number of recorded LTI cases by the Group other than through redundancy our focus on diversity and inclusion.
number of hours worked at the during the period as a proportion of the We are launching a new mobile Company multiplied by 200,000.
A lost total average number of employees intranet which will include a time accident is a work related injury during the period.
translation feature ensuring that our that results in an employees inability Target people can access information and to work the shift after the initial injury.
We aim to keep permanent employee discussions in their local language.
Target turnover below historic levels in order We also analyse the results of our Continued reduction in accident rates.
to retain the skill base that we have employee engagement survey from developed.
the perspective of gender to ensure Performance we are dealing with underlying Safety continues to be a key area of focus Performance gender-based perceptions.
At the beginning of the year This year employee turnover was in line Gender Pay Gap Report is available we introduced stop work authority, with last year as the measures taken on our corporate website.
designed to empower people to act on to improve engagement take effect.
risks they witness and to ensure that Our employee engagement score Through a globally consistent they dont put themselves or others at continues to rise with a score of 76% in approach to performance and risk.
We also introduced our Leading 2018, up 1% compared with the prior year.
development Be Your Best we Safety programme for our frontline are encouraging the strongest leaders, which focuses on engagement performance from our people by and how to have meaningful and providing training and development positive safety conversations.
and through personal objectives and performance-based remuneration.
We are now aligning any potential bonus payments to individual, Lost time injury frequency rate Employee turnover as well as Company and strategic business unit, performance.
