Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Delivering long-term sustainable value Our overarching business strategy is to deliver long-term sustainable value in all that we do.
Connecting Building Understanding with consumers brands our customers Consumer insight drives our business.
Our We are brand owners and builders, offering Building and maintaining long-lasting and consumers are growing in number, location a diverse and differentiated portfolio of successful customer relationships, across and diversity and we ensure that we take the products that people love.
With our own multiple routes to market, is central to time to listen, to understand their needs and powerful brands, complementary franchise our business.
We work closely with our to offer them a choice of great tasting, high partner brands and a strong track record of customers to develop joint plans which allow quality products.
bringing successful innovation to the market, us to share in success.
We pride ourselves we seek to build brand awareness, grow our on our ability to turn these shared plans into brand equity and outperform the market.
effective actions, supporting our customers with excellent in-store activation of our brand led activities and delivering the highest possible levels of service.
Developing Driving Acting partnerships efficiency responsibly With strong ambitions, both within the We continually strive for efficiency across We believe that how we act reflects who we UK and internationally, we recognise the our business, ensuring strong financial are.
We take our responsibilities seriously advantages that working in partnership controls are in place while also investing and aim to be a sustainable and responsible can deliver.
By working closely with others, for growth.
As our business develops, business that listens to our consumers, takes whether that be brand franchise partners, we are committed to driving continuous care of our people, works to minimise our international distributors or 3rd party logistics improvement across our processes and environmental impact and gives something providers, we develop complementary technology.
As an asset backed business back to the communities we serve.
relationships that deliver shared benefits we drive operational improvements, flexibility and support our growing business.
and efficiency through our expansionary capital investment programme, equipping us with some of the industrys most advanced operational capability.
12 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018
