Strategy in Action Connecting with consumers A core component of our competitive advantage has always been our deep and ongoing understanding of our consumers, their habits, preferences and tastes.
These insights drive our ability to develop our business by providing a growing number of consumers with great tasting products, whether thats Barr soft drinks or Funkin cocktails.
Over the past 12 months we have continued compromising on taste.
At the same time to keep close to our consumers, talking to we know that our consumers like to interact them about their views and opinions and with our brands in interesting and fun new 6m understanding whats important to them.
For ways and to facilitate this we have delivered many, health and wellbeing, and in particular a strong brand engagement programme consumers connected with IRN-BRU XTRA a desire to reduce the amount of sugar in across 2017, through not only advertising, via social media the food and drink they consume, is more sponsorships and brand activation initiatives important than ever, but without but also through innovation.
3-year new partnership with England and Wales Cricket Board 1.5m bottles of water hydrating athletes, officials and volunteers at last summers athletics in London IRN-BRU XTRA goes national After the successful launch in 2016 of IRN-BRU XTRA in Scotland, 2017 saw us introduce our no added sugar, extra taste, new IRN-BRU variant into the English market with a fantastic response.
Supported by national TV advertising, a social media campaign that reached over 6 million consumers, the continued sponsorship of Soccer AM and even some new truck designs, IRN-BRU XTRA has been one of our most successful pieces of innovation in our 140-year history, with the equivalent of 80 million cans sold since its launch.
14 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Strathmore water hydrates world-class athletes As the national partner and supplier of bottled water for both the IAAF World Championships London 2017 and the World Para Athletics Championships, the Strathmore brand hydrated athletes, officials and volunteers at both events in July last year with more than 1.5 million bottles of water.
The events brought together more than 3,000 world-class athletes from more than 200 countries who competed across 20 jam-packed and action-fueled days last summer.
All Strathmore water bottles are recyclable and recycling facilities were provided at the venues to help everyone dispose of their litter responsibly.
Strathmore already has a strong association with sport nationally and internationally and it was a privilege to be able to strengthen our association with athletics even further.
Rubicon Official Soft Drink of the England and Wales Cricket Board In September we were delighted to confirm a new three-year partnership with the England and Wales Cricket Board ECB, covering Englands Men, Women and Disability teams across all the formats of Test, One Day and T20 matches.
Rubicon has a long and proud history of supporting cricket in England and Wales and we are delighted to take our relationship with the England teams and the ECB to a higher level.
The new partnership with the ECB is the biggest ever for Rubicon and helps the brand reach significantly larger audiences than ever before, enhancing its position as the UKs leading exotic juice drink brand.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategy in Action continued Building brands Having invested in both our innovation Over the past 12 months we have made significant market share processes, teams and infrastructure in 2016, gains, well ahead of the soft drinks market performance throughout innovation has continued to play a central the year.
We have continued to invest in the long-term health of our role in our portfolio development across 2017, satisfying our consumers needs brands and all of our core brands grew in both value and volume for great tasting, relevant and exciting terms across the year.
More exciting innovation from Funkin Crowned the No.
1 predicted cocktail trend of 2018 by industry commentators CGA, Funkin is once again at the forefront of cocktail innovation with the launch of Funkin Premium Batched Draught Cocktails supporting the development of easy serve, quality cocktails across the served market.
Ideal for nightclubs, arenas, outdoor events and high volume pubs and bars, Funkin Premium Batched Draught Cocktails include four serves Pornstar Martini, Pia Colada, Pink Grapefruit Gin Collins and Mojito.
All four variants are among the UKs best-selling and most recognisable.
Our range of Premium Batched Draught Cocktails are made with the same blending expertise and know-how used to create our fruit pures, cocktail syrups and pre-batched cocktail mixers.
16 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts The biggest ever year of sales for the IRN-BRU brand with sales up Rubicon sales up Funkin sales up 8% 5.3% 25% Note: Where stated, brand sales growth is based on invoiced revenue for the 52 weeks to 27 January 2018.
Rockstar First Start Rockstar has a proven track record of energising and engaging consumers with high profile promotional partnerships as well as new and exciting product development, and 2017 was no exception.
Innovation continues to play an important role in the energy drink category and Rockstars new First Start brand is a great example of new product development meeting new consumer needs.
With 5% juice content, no added sugar and less than 30 calories per can, Rockstar First Start appeals to a broad range of consumers, delivering a functional and natural energy boost in orange & clementine and mixed berries flavours.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategy in Action continued Understanding our customers Over the past 12 months we have continued to work closely with our customers to build stronger working relationships and deliver shared success.
We recognise that execution is crucial and we have sought to achieve a high level of in-market business development support for our customers and also aimed to achieve constantly improving levels of customer service.
We have been delighted to be formally recognised by some of our key customers as a valued supplier and partner, and acknowledged for the quality of the innovation we have brought to market across 2017.
Winning with our customers We were delighted to be recognised once again by one of our key customers, Bestway Batley Group as their Supplier of the Year.
This was the fourth occasion in the last five years where we have been awarded this prestigious accolade, something of which both our sales team, and the business as a whole, is extremely proud.
Key customer Supplier of the Year for 4th time in 5 years 4th success 18 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Customer service achieved across 2017 over 97% Gold Medal for Rubicon Spring Following on from the commercial success of Rubicon Spring, we were extremely proud to be awarded Best piece of retail innovation at the Federation of Wholesale Distributors Awards.
Rubicon Spring offers consumers a tasty, healthy and hydrating drink, with no added sugar and less than 15 calories in every bottle.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Strategy in Action continued Developing partnerships We further developed and enhanced our partnerships across 2017, working collaboratively to deliver shared success.
Were also delighted to have agreed two new brand partnerships in the last 12 months, with both San Benedetto and Bundaberg Brewed Drinks.
These long-term agreements enhance our portfolio with authentic and premium brands appealing to a range of new consumers and outlets that will support our joint growth ambitions over the long term.
New partnership with San Benedetto Our new long-term partnership agreement with Italys biggest independent soft drinks producer, San Benedetto, will bring the authentic taste of Italy to the UK.
As the new and exclusive UK and Ireland distributor of San Benedettos Prima Spremitura sparkling drinks range, were excited to deliver consumers a premium and indulgent product that delivers on taste, with 12% juice from the first squeeze of the fruit.
Available in two flavours Limone Lemon and Clementina Orange both drinks are made with 100% Passione Italiana and have only 86 calories per can.
20 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 2 12% 6 new brand partners juice and only 86 calories in each can of Prima Bundaberg soft drinks added to our portfolio Spremitura New partnership with Bundaberg Brewed Drinks Were delighted to welcome a new brand the #4 carbonated soft drink in Australia, shares similar values and growth aspirations partner to our portfolio Bundaberg Brewed and increasingly for its complementary range to ours.
Commencing April 2018 we have of brewed beverages, the family-owned entered into an exclusive long-term business based in Queensland, Australia, The Bundaberg brand is already established agreement in relation to the Bundaberg enjoys an increasing level of success through in the UK and we are excited about the brand in the UK, adding 6 new soft drinks to its global footprint.
We are proud to join opportunities our new partnership offers our portfolio.
Best known for its Ginger Beer, forces with such a successful business that to accelerate the brands growth.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Strategy in Action continued Driving efficiency We have invested significantly in improving the efficiency of our business in recent years and have maintained our focus on this across the past 12 months.
From largescale capital investment projects to using technology to enhance our ways of working, we have remained focused on delivering continuous improvement in all areas of our operations.
New production capacity at Milton Keynes Over the past 12 months we have added further production capacity to our operational footprint with the successful installation of a new PET production line at Milton Keynes, a project that was delivered both on time and on budget, with a capital investment of 10m.
This new line provides the flexibility to fill 330ml to 2L bottles at up to 42,000 bottles per hour capability.
10m investment in new high-speed PET production line 22 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Improved ways of working Following a complete refresh of all our employees desktops and laptops in 2016, weve continued to invest in technology that allows our staff to be more productive and collaborative.
Our continued adoption of mobile and cloud-based technology across 2017 has allowed us to deliver solutions faster and more efficiently, enhancing our ways of working.
In particular, our roll-out of cloud-based video conferencing across the business has improved collaboration and dramatically reduced unproductive travel time with many meetings now held virtually our new technology has supported 1.6 million minutes of video conferencing connections in the last 12 months.
1.6m minutes of cloud-based video conferencing connections A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategy in Action continued Acting responsibly We are proud of our business, proud of the contribution we make to society and proud that our values are as important to us today as they have ever been.
Our responsibility agenda underpins all that we do, and over the past 12 months it has remained integral to how we do business.
We remain 100% focused on doing the right thing for our consumers, environment, people and community.
Delivering on our sugar 70% up to 70% reduction in sugar across our reduction brand portfolio promises Consumers tastes and attitudes are changing.
In response to these changes the successful delivery of our reformulation 99% and innovation programme means that 99% of our soft drinks now lower or no sugar of our portfolio is now made up of products that are now defined as lower or no sugar.
An unprecedented number of new recipes have been developed and delivered to achieve our commitment, with some products reducing their sugar content by up to 70%.
What hasnt changed is the importance we place on offering great tasting brands that people love.
24 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Strathmore Doing more with sport Strathmore has continued to forge its reputation as the water of choice for world class sporting teams, sports people and events, from Scottish Rugby to British Athletics, while still supporting more local community sporting and activity related events.
In 2017 we were proud to support Team Strathmore made up of our three amazing Strathmore Brand Ambassadors middle distance runner Laura Muir, swimmer Ross Murdoch and wheelchair racer Sammi Kinghorn.
All of Team Strathmore achieved great success in 2017 collectively winning 5 Gold Medals, and we were especially delighted for Sammi Kinghorn who won Scottish Sports Personality of the Year 2017.
5 Gold Medals won by Team Strathmore in 2017 New employee volunteering policy Our charity partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support has generated extremely high levels of employee fundraising and engagement across all our sites.
In recognition and support of the positivity and energy demonstrated by our employees, we have introduced a new employee volunteering policy which allows employees paid time off to take part in activities which support this great cause.
This policy has already been used to great effect with just one example being from two of our charity champions who volunteered at Strathmore Water Hydration Stations at the Edinburgh Marathon, hydrating those runners raising money for Macmillan.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategy in Action continued Learning at Acting responsibly Work Week continued Underpinning everything that we do is our belief in performance through people.
We have developed a simple behavioural framework central to who we are and how we operate.
The four behaviours Being Brilliant, Always Learning, Results Driven and Relationships that Deliver represent the heart and soul of A. G. Barr and how we should work together to enhance performance.
In support of our Always Learning behaviour we got behind the national campaign for learning by participating in Learning at Work Week 2017.
The campaign ran from 15-21 May and involved all parts of the business.
A learning nudge a short e-Learning module or video linked to our Barr Behaviours was issued each day and an on-line badge awarded for completion.
A total of 801 learning nudges were completed during the five days and the campaign, year after year, continues to be well received by our employees.
801 learning nudges delivered during Learning at Work Week Improving our environmental credentials We have always taken our environmental responsibilities seriously and believe that packaging should be treated as a valuable resource and recycled, not discarded as litter.
All of our packaging is recyclable, with clear recycling messages for consumers on pack, and we have supported a number of anti-littering and recycling initiatives across the country to drive the recycling message home.
With regard to plastic bottles in particular, an area of real focus for the environment, we have reduced the amount of material we use in our plastic bottles by 20% since 2008 and reduced our use of packaging even further last year by removing plastic sleeves from millions of our bottles.
26 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Supporting Macmillan Cancer Support At the beginning of our three year partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support, we committed to support projects in key areas we operate in.
The first project was to support Macmillans investment in The Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre, and were now delighted to confirm that this project is complete.
The project sought to extend and improve the Macmillan Support and Information Centre at the entrance to the hospital to improve the support Macmillan can provide to those using their services, whilst also improving the holistic environment the hospital provides to both patients and visiting friends and family.
The centre, local to our Head Office in Cumbernauld, is regarded as one of the leading cancer centres in the UK, and Scotlands largest, caring for 60% of people diagnosed with cancer in Scotland.
We are proud of our association with Macmillan and the positive impact our employees have made and continue to make.
In considering the requirements of the Gender split Board and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations, the Company Directors have considered the level of detail Secretary Senior Managers All Employees to disclose in relation to our policies and due Male 8 69 702 diligence processes regarding human rights, Female 2 29 265 anti-bribery and corruption.
The Directors do not deem this detail necessary to aid Total 10 98 967 understanding of the Companys development, performance and position.
Susan Barratt joined the Board on 28 January 2018 however is not included in the numbers above which are inclusive up to 27 January 2018.
The Company is a UK Living Wage accredited employer.
Our policy in relation to Modern In accordance with recent regulation we will be publishing our Gender Pay Report on our Slavery can be found on the Companys corporate website www.
co. uk before 4 April 2018 which will provide details of our website at www.
The Audit gender pay profile.
Committee regularly reviews the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy, as AG Barr GHC Emissions in tonnes CO e confirmed on page 45.
2 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
