Business Model Simple, effective, profitable We make We move We pride ourselves on our effective With a fleet of more than 100 vehicles, manufacturing capabilities, producing and long-standing relationships with our key high quality products across our welldistribution partners, we strive to deliver a invested and efficient production sites, in great service to all our customers, from the Cumbernauld, Forfar and Milton Keynes.
biggest food service customer to the smallest From sourcing our raw materials across the local shop.
Operating across multiple routes globe to designing our packaging materials, to market, we have a well established and we strive for continuous improvements, keep efficient distribution network, with our Direct safety at the forefront of all we do, and invest Store Delivery channel in particular setting accordingly to ensure we produce the best us apart, by offering a tailored and personal tasting products as efficiently as possible.
service to thousands of independent retailers across the UK.
6 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts We are a growth-driven, branded consumer goods This simple but effective approach is supported business, delivering long-term sustainable value.
by strong partnerships, talented people and responsible actions.
We build great tasting brands that people love, offering them choice and enjoyment.
Our business model has proven successful for more than 140 years and continues to create Our business model is simple, effective and deliver value in all that we do.
We market We sell Listening carefully to our consumers Building long-lasting relationships with is paramount and by doing so we have our customers across all our key markets developed a diverse and differentiated brand is fundamental to our business.
Whether portfolio of great tasting products to satisfy its a multiple grocer, a wholesaler, a regional their needs and offer choice.
And when it restaurant group or a local independent comes to marketing and building our brands retailer, we work collaboratively with all our we like to have some fun, appealing to our customers to understand their businesses broad range of consumers, whether thats and find winning consumer propositions through national TV campaigns, digital in a practical, fun and profitable way.
media, sponsorship or supporting local community events.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
