OUR BUSINESS MODEL Aggreko creates value by providing mobile and modular temporary power and temperature control Our value proposition Working at the forefront of a We offer maximum fuel exibility, rapidly changing energy market, using diesel, gas, heavy fuel oil we are focused on solving our HFO and renewable fuel sources, customers energy problems by as well as microgrid and storage providing cost-effective, exible, solutions, and we also have tools and more ef cient power and to help our customers adapt to temperature control solutions.
the energy transition the world is experiencing.
Along with our mobile, modular equipment, we bring sectorThe extensive technical speci c expertise in any location, capability and experience of from the worlds busiest cities to our people, together with our its most remote places, for a wide values, continue to reinforce range of commercial industrial our reputation for appropriate, projects, events, emergencies reliable and, where necessary, and utilities.
innovative solutions for every customer.
The sustainable competitive advantages that set us apart 1.
Brand strength Extensive global Investment in Highly trained High-quality Delivery and reputation network of sales solutions to build team of innovation of bespoke Our customers and service our digital specialists and execution solutions for value our exibility, centres capability Our sector Without our customers reliability, ethics We are truly Our Market specialisation, competent We excel in the and innovation in global.
The map Intelligence which is now engineering, data most challenging offering options on page 2 shows Platform, CRM, well embedded analytics and conditions where for lower cost the geographies e-commerce in our sales teams, agility we could Group-wide and emissions.
we cover and the portal and data differentiates not deliver the expertise is location of our analytics capability us from our reliability, exibility brought to bear 195 sales and give us the edge competitors.
or innovation our to deliver speci c service centres.
solutions to the most complex of situations.
Our customers and how we reach them While we focus on seven key sectors We engage with our customers via Our customers can range from in which we have proven specialist our specialist, sector-speci c sales a hospital in urgent need of knowledge and experience, this is team, backed up by a global network backup power, to a country with an not exclusive, and we are constantly of 195 sales and service centres.
unreliable grid: from the organising looking to expand our relevance committee of a big event like the We leverage our experience for the and broaden our customer base.
Olympics, to a mining company bene t of all customers through Our key sectors are shown on page 12 setting up in a new location.
Case formal and informal sharing of with a discussion on our approach studies on our website and on knowledge across the Group.
pages 12 to 17 describe what we Our digital channels are playing are capable of delivering, the an increasingly important role sophistication of our bespoke in the speci cation, monitoring solutions and of our provision of and analysing of operational power in the most challenging performance.
For our more of conditions.
immediate, transactional sales, we are developing an e-commerce platform.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 06 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our three inter-related but distinct businesses Rental Solutions Power Solutions Power Solutions Industrial Utility Key revenue streams Key revenue streams Key revenue streams Focusing on high-value sectors in developed Focusing on natural resource and industrial Focusing on utilities in emerging markets, markets, we use our specialist expertise to sectors, we use our specialist expertise, overlapping with those in which Power deliver our customers requirements, which are: gained from similar industries to Rental Solutions Industrial operates, our customers Solutions, but in different geographies requirements are driven by a lack of reliable Immediate availability for short-term in the developing markets, to deliver our power supply from the grid or seasonal contracts customers requirements, which are: uctuations in demand supply and are: Delivery of secure power supply Delivery of secure power supply and temperature control Temporary power provision, across oneto and temperature control three years generally Ability to work in remote locations Ability to work in remote locations Ability to work in remote locations Flexibility in our solutions Flexibility in our solutions Flexibility in our solutions Environmentally friendly options Environmentally friendly options for large corporate customers Driving our returns for large corporate customers Driving our returns Reducing our cost base to improve Driving our returns operating pro t Growing revenue and improving Growing revenue and lowering the cost Cost reduction programme described operating margins of our operating model to increase in more detail on page 16 Improving pro tability from higher-value, operating pro t Reducing capital employed higher-margin work through specialist Improving pro tability from higher-value, sales resources and processes Focusing new diesel product build higher-margin work through specialist New systems to support the customer programme on fleet upgrades sales resources and processes journey, improve ef ciency and enable Optimising fleet allocation and transfers New systems to support the customer real-time pricing with improved to improve utilisation journey, improve ef ciency, and enable governance real-time pricing with improved E-commerce platform and telesales Our approach to improving our returns governance for the more transactional market is discussed in more detail on page 11.
Offering hybrid solutions to provide Deploying assets more ef ciently new growth opportunities to reduce capital employed Optimising fleet allocation and achieving a more ef cient hub and spoke depot network to reduce capital employed How we create value for our customers and shareholders 1 3 5 Re ning the speci cation Demobilisation and problem solving 6 2 At the end of a contract, we move equipment to new projects to keep costs Our problem solving ability, technical down for customers and improve our capability and knowledge-sharing enable utilisation based on: us to develop more sophisticated solutions and applications, particularly for highly Increased longevity of our equipment 5 3 complex or valuable installations, or where supported by more sophisticated remote environmental concerns are paramount.
data monitoring and condition-based 4 These capabilities include: maintenance programmes Optimisation of fleet logistics and Our constant focus on improving 1 Differentiation to project manning to manage transfers ef ciency without compromising reliability of equipment more ef ciently attract customers Transparent pricing through our cost of energy calculator and other initiatives Our reputation and brand are backed up by our technical capability, experience and Additions to our product portfolio over 6 Preparing for the next understanding of our industry based on: recent years, including hybrid, storage, customer Flexibility through our mobile, modular system optimisation and HFO Both our customers and our own approach with multiple fuel types operational feedback from each contract Scale and global reach with pooled 4 Deployment and are built into our data analytics so that experience lessons can be learned and applied operational support Reliability Group-wide with: By deploying the appropriate equipment Innovation and ability to deliver unique Digitalisation and data analytics for each project, we ensure customer or bespoke solutions supporting decisions on best allocation satisfaction and improved utilisation.
Capability to deal with constraints and ofresources We focus on: requirements on emissions, noise and cost Deploying the right equipment and fuel type whether new, refurbished or bespoke 2 Understanding and Digital applications covering data monitoring of our equipment so we deliver identifying customers needs higher service levels We are particularly well positioned to help CRM to track customers needs and customers with the following needs: our own performance, feeding back Low-cost energy experience and improving our knowledge Reliable energy Immediate or rapid response Access to remote, less accessible locations Cleaner energy Temperature control Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 THE OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR MARKETS We are helping our customers in their transition to the new realities of global energy markets Globally, the energy sector is going through a major transition: the challenge today is to nd the optimal way to secure more energy, affordably and sustainably.
The challenges of the energy transition Global population is expected to There are also vast geographic areas increase by one billion during the where the population density does next decade with 94% of this in urban not, and may never, support grid populations of less developed regions.
Demographic change In these regions, power supply is often unreliable.
The World Bank reports means that grid investment is not that electricity supply in 26 such keeping up with the growth in the countries has deteriorated since 2016 worlds urban population.
and there are currently 1.1 billion people, mainly in Africa, without access to power.
15% growth in urban population by 2025 and 25% by 2030 Demand for lower-cost generation In emerging markets, off-grid or technologies, renewables, exibility behind the meter power systems are and security of supply has led to an increasingly important self-supply rapid growth in the demand for solution and distributed energy could decentralised power generation, represent between 40% and 60% of all Decentralisation including distributed or off-grid the remaining investment required to leads to demand for exible power solutions.
The 6GW of new microgrid provide universal access to electricity.
solutions addressing more complex projects planned affect all segments With $55 billion invested in distributed power systems.
of the energy market business, energy hardware rooftop solar, smart residential and communities.
metering, behind the meter storage, etc.
in 2017, decentralisation 1GW represents a rapidly growing and of microgrids in the past few years: sizeable market opportunity.
we believe a further 6GW of capacity is planned Decarbonisation imperative is causing storage capacity as these sources are pressure to improve the ef ciency expected to be cheaper than running of existing installations and to limit existing grid-scale coal and gas plants emissions.
This comes at a time when on a levelised basis by the late 2020s.
population and economic growth are Increasing renewable capacity will Decarbonisation pushing up both energy demand require exible power units, including drives investment towards renewables and CO emissions.
Decarbonisation 2 batteries and small peaking gas and lower emission fuels.
represents both risks and opportunities plants, and demand management for our activities in these key markets.
to effectively balance the system.
By the late Higher energy ef ciency and Hybrid systems, which include thermal investment in renewables are generation, provide a pathway to expected to be the main enablers of 2020s integrate more renewable energy CO emissions reductions.
The falling 2 while reducing CO emissions.
renewable technologies are expected 2 cost of renewable technologies will to be cheaper than conventional drive investment in wind, solar and thermal technology Digitalisation improves electricity Digitalisation may have its biggest systems by increasing connectivity, impact in renewable energy where visibility and performance of devices there is a growing need to integrate through digital communications, a diverse mix of energy systems, analytics and insight.
Implementing including distributed generation and Digitalisation digitalisation at each stage of the energy storage.
As the main renewable will help optimise operations, driving value chain of the energy system can energies are intermittent and power out cost and ensuring integration of enable increased ef ciency, stability systems more complex, digitalisation intermittent renewable power.
and reliability through monitoring and will help to balance the system in the optimisation of a grid and associated most ef cient way.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 08 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The marketplace in which we operate Increasing demand Commodities Competition Improved commodity prices in 2018 To maintain our competitive position for power resulted in a rise in industrial activity in this changing environment we have, Our markets have historically grown as in many of our markets.
in line with our strategic priorities, a countrys economy grows, particularly improved our technology offering, in industrial sectors where finance is The cost of energy is a key concern for customer focus and ef ciency.
Projected global GDP customers in these sectors and our growth of 3.5% for 2019 IMF is sector speci c applications, such as the All markets expected to drive this demand.
solar-diesel hybrid on mining sites and We compete with regional, national are gas-to-power solutions, will be an and local businesses, many of which Globally there is a move for greater important revenue driver for us.
are privately-owned specialist rental integration of networks with crossbusinesses, divisions of large plant Oil & gas border transmission infrastructure hire companies, or OEM Original Oil demand is supported by development.
global GDP growth, particularly In the power sector, there is an Very few provide our sector-speci c in emerging markets.
estimated 2,390GW of capacity solutions or engineering expertise.
Positive oil and gas price forecasts currently under construction or underpin infrastructure projects Developed markets planned in the next few years with and support signi cant capital The larger general rental companies do almost half of this in Asia Platts.
operate in specialist sectors, including Investment in power supply is expected power, heating and cooling, with a focus The oil eld services sector has seen to focus mainly on solar and wind with on transactional equipment hiring.
recovery, particularly in the US, and around 43% from fossil fuels driven by Our strategic priorities and individual current trends remain favourable.
declining costs, batteries and exible country and sector strategies address Liquid petroleum gas LPG is available power solutions such as peaking gas.
the competition in these markets.
in over 130 countries, compared to An increase in distributed energy Emerging markets around 40 for natural gas, and is a resources will tend to decrease the Several competitors cover wide very attractive solution in countries average size of power plants and geographical areas across emerging looking for cheaper, cleaner power.
increase the number of power markets.
However, we believe we are Lique ed natural gas LNG producers.
Construction of those the only company with a truly global development, coupled with investment plants should be faster than large footprint, capable of high standards of in pipeline and infrastructure, will make utility-scale projects, but the innovation for bespoke solutions.
In the gas available more widely.
development, duration and funding utility market, demand has mainly been processes remain challenging.
Petrochemicals and re ning towards longer-term contracts while The global market for petrochemicals our modular, mobile and temporary The high potential for gas technology is expected to grow at an annual equipment favours contracts of one along with batteries over the mid and average rate of 9% by 2023 Energias to three years in length, in which we long term will drive the shift towards Market Research.
The Asia-Paci c believe we have maintained a market decentralised and decarbonised energy region has been the main contributor share above 50% of the addressable systems.
Gas is expected to remain at in the past and is expected to market.
around 20% of the global power mix.
continue leading the sector, with the Increasing demand for power, Middle East remaining the most construction of new power plants, the competitive place for production.
move towards renewables and storage, Mining and increased focus on decentralised, Positive developments in commodity decarbonised energy systems will prices have meant that this sector provide opportunities for Aggreko.
has had access to more funding for new projects.
Gold production levels are expected to grow, particularly in Australia and Canada.
Demand for commodities of the future, such as copper, nickel, aluminium, lithium and cobalt, is being driven by growth in electric 3.5% vehicles and battery storage arising Projected global growth driving demand from pressure to decarbonise.
for power in 2019 IMF 2,390GW 9% CAGR 5.5% Growth rate of global petrochemicals market Power sector capacity currently under Investment growth over the next five years in by 2023 Energias Market Research construction or planned Platts emerging and developing economies IMF Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09
