Board of Directors John R. Nicolson Roger A.
White Stuart Lorimer Jonathan D. Kemp Andrew L. Memmott B.
Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Supply Chain Director Johns career was spent with Roger is a member of the Stuart was with Diageo for Jonathan has had a Andrew joined the Company ICI, Unilever, Fosters Brewing Board of Management and 22 years in a range of roles successful career in various following three years with Group, Scottish & Newcastle Executive Council and is a past and countries, ultimately commercial roles within Cooperative Wholesale Society.
PLC, and latterly as President President of the British Soft as the FD for Diageos Procter and Gamble.
Americas for Heineken NV Drinks Association.
Term of Office and Deputy Chairman of CCU held numerous senior Term of Office Joined the Companys SA Chile.
He held various positions in food group Rank Term of Office Joined the Company in 2003 Project Engineering positions in Marketing and Hovis McDougall.
Scottish PLC Joined the Company as Finance as Commercial Director.
Sales before moving into Chief Executive of the year Director in January 2015.
Appointed Operations Corporate Development and in 2010.
Honorary Doctorate External Appointments Director in 2008. then General Management.
External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Trustee of Community Cricket Scotland Limited.
External Appointments Term of Office Term of Office Integrated Care.
None Joined the Company in Joined the Company in 2002 as 2013 as a Non-Executive Managing Director.
External Appointments External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Troy Non-Executive Director of Income & Growth Trust plc.
Stocks Spirits Group PLC, Non-Executive Director of North American Breweries Inc, and Non-Executive Director of PZ Cussons PLC.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Chair Remuneration Committee 38 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Martin A. Griffiths W. Robin G. Barr Pamela Powell David J. Ritchie Susan Barratt L. L. B. Hons, C. A. C. A.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director A Chartered Accountant, Robin is a past President of the Pam was formerly Group David is a qualified Chartered Susan is a Chartered Martin is a former Chairman British Soft Drinks Association.
Director of Strategy and Accountant and former Accountant, and has spent of the Scottish Finance Innovation at SABMiller plc, Chief Executive of Bovis much of her career in financial Directors Group and a former Term of Office SVP Global Personal Care Homes Group PLC Bovis.
roles including senior finance Director of Troy Income & Joined the Company in at Coty Beauty Inc, and VP He joined Bovis in 1998 from roles in Whitbread plc, Laurel Growth Trust plc, Trainline 1960.
Appointed Director Skincare and Global Brand KPMG as Group Financial Pub Company and Eldridge Holdings Limited, RoadKing in 1964 and Chairman in Director Dove at Unilever plc.
Controller becoming Group Pope where she moved from Infrastructure HK Limited 1978.
Retired as Chairman Finance Director in 2002 and Finance Director to CEO.
and appointed NonTerm of Office Chief Executive in 2008.
He is also a former Senior Executive Director in 2009.
Joined the Company in 2013 Term of Office Independent Non-Executive as a Non-Executive Director.
Term of Office Joined the Company in 2018 Director of Robert Walters External Appointments Joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director.
plc and past Chairman of Rail None External Appointments in April 2015 as NonDelivery Group Limited and Non-Executive Director Executive Director.
External Appointments was young Scottish Finance Committee Membership of Premier Foods plc, CEO of Natures Way Foods Director of the year in 2004.
Audit Committee Non-Executive Director External Appointments Ltd, Trustee of the IGD.
Nomination Committee of Cranswick plc.
None Term of Office Remuneration Committee Committee Membership Joined the Company in 2010 Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit Committee as a Non-Executive Director.
Audit Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee External Appointments Remuneration Committee Remuneration CEO of Stagecoach Group, Committee Chair Non-Executive Co Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Committee Membership Audit Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Susan Barratt was appointed to the Board on 28 January 2018.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
