STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors Report and Dividend payments and DRIP Rights and obligations StrategicReport attached to shares The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP allows shareholders to purchase The Directors Report and Strategic Subject to applicable statutes in this additional shares in Aggreko with their Report for the year ended 31 December section referred to as the Companies dividend payments.
Further information 2018 comprise pages 46 to 85 and pages Acts and to any rights conferred on the and a mandate can be obtained from 1 to 45 of this report, together with the holders of any other shares, any share our Registrar, Link Asset Services, whose sections incorporated by reference.
We may be issued with or have attached details are set out on page 149 and the have included some of the matters to it such rights and restrictions as the shareholder information pages of our normally included in the Directors Company may by ordinary resolution website at www.
Report which we consider to be of decide or, if no such resolution has been strategic importance in the Strategic passed or so far as the resolution does Report on pages 1 to 45.
Speci cally not make speci c provision, as the Board Share capital these are: may decide.
On 31 December 2018, the Company had in issue 256,128,201 Ordinary Shares Future business developments 329 Voting of 4 pence each, 188,251,587 on page 10: and 395 84 Deferred Shares of 9 pence each, 775 Subject to any special terms as to voting Risk information on the use of 1 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares of 775 upon which any shares may be issued financial instruments on page 124. pence each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares or may for the time being be held and 18 of 6 pence each and 573,643,383,325 Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule 25 to any other provisions of the Articles 1 Deferred Shares of pence each LR 9.8.
4R, where applicable, are included 306125 of Association of the Company the comprising 29.43%, 40.77%, 0.56%, on pages 70 to 71 in relation to LongArticles, on a show of hands every 29.20% and 0.04% respectively of the Term Incentive Plans and on page 82 member who is present in person or Companys issued share capital.
Details in relation to the dividend waiver by proxy or represented by a corporate of the changes in issued share capital arrangements in place for our Employee representative at a general meeting during the year are shown in Note 23 to Bene t Trust.
of the Company has one vote.
Both the Directors Report and Strategic On a poll, every member who is present Report have been presented in in person or by proxy or represented by Material share interests accordance with applicable company a corporate representative has one vote law, and the liabilities of the Directors As at 31 December 2018, the Company for every share of which he or she is the in connection with those reports are had received noti cations of the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a subject to the limitations and restrictions following major shareholdings, share the vote of the senior who tenders provided.
Other information to be representing 3% or more of the voting a vote, whether in person or by proxy, disclosed in the Directors Report is given rights attached to the issued Ordinary is accepted to the exclusion of the votes in this section.
Share capital of the Company: of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names stand in the Management report register in respect of the joint holding.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Number % of total Rule DTR 4.1.
Shareholder of shares voting rights The Capital Group Companies LLP 13,446,515 5.24 2019 Annual General Meeting AKO Capital LLP 12,781,545 4.99 The Companys Annual General Meeting Standard Life Aberdeen plc 12,587,779 4.91 will be held at 11.00am on 25 April 2019 at Baillie Gifford 12,584,169 4.91 200 SVS, 200 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5RQ.
The Notice of Meeting is set out Mackenzie Financial Corporation 11,216,580 4.37 on pages 141 to 146 of this document and Prudential Plc 9,351,326 3.65 is also avilable on the shareholder Deutsche Bank AG 8,535,344 3.33 information pages of our website at www.
Between 31 December 2018 and 5 March 2019, the Company received the following noti cations of major shareholdings: Dividends Number % of total Shareholder Date of shares voting rights The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 2 October Lion Investment Partners LLP 06 02 2019 13,307,481 5.20 2018.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or Share in respect of the year, making more in the share capital of the Company.
a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share 2017: 27.12 pence, payable on 24 May 2019 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 April 2019.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The holders of the Deferred Shares are On a return of capital on a windingRestrictions on transfer of not entitled to receive notice of any up excluding any intra-Group securities in the Company general meeting of the Company or reorganisation on a solvent basis, There are no restrictions on the transfer to attend, speak or vote at any such holders of Deferred Shares are entitled of securities in the Company, except that: meeting.
to be paid the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on such Deferred Certain restrictions may from time Restrictions on voting Shares after paying to the holders of the to time be imposed by laws and Ordinary Shares the nominal capital No member is, unless the Board regulations for example, insider paid up or credited as paid up on otherwise decides, entitled in respect trading laws, in particular we operate the Ordinary Shares held by them of any share held by them to vote either a share dealing code which requires respectively, together with the sum of personally or by proxy or by a corporate Directors of the Company and certain 100,000,000 on each Ordinary Share.
representative at any general meeting employees to obtain the approval of of the Company or at any separate the Company before dealing in the The Board may deduct from any general meeting of the holders of any Companys Ordinary Shares and dividend or other monies payable to class of shares in the Company if any a member by the Company on or in The Deferred Shares are not calls or other sums presently payable respect of any shares all sums of money transferable except in accordance by them in respect of that share remain if any presently payable by him to with the paragraph headed Powers unpaid or if they are a person with a the Company on account of calls or in relation to the Company issuing or 0.25% interest as fide ned in the Articles otherwise in respect of shares of the buying back its own shares below and they have been served with a Company.
The Board may also withhold or with the written consent of the restriction notice as fide ned in the payment of all or any part of any Directors.
Articles after failure to provide the dividends or other monies payable in Company with information concerning The Company is not aware of any respect of the Companys shares from a interests in those shares required to be agreements between holders of person with a 0.25% interest as fide ned provided under the Companies Acts.
securities that may result in restrictions in the Articles if such a person has been on the transfer of securities.
served with a restriction notice as The Company is not aware of any fide ned in the Articles after failure to agreement between holders of provide the Company with information Articles of Association securities that may result in restrictions concerning interests in those shares on voting rights.
Our Articles are available on our website required to be provided under the at www.
expressly speci ed to the contrary in the Dividends and other Articles, the Articles may be amended distributions Variation of rights by a special resolution of the Companys Subject to the provisions of the shareholders.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by Companies Acts, rights attached to any ordinary resolution from time to time class of shares may be varied either with Appointment and replacement declare dividends in accordance with the consent in writing of the holders of of Directors the respective rights of the members, not less than three quarters in nominal but no dividend can exceed the amount The rules for the appointment and value of the issued shares of that class recommended by the Board.
replacement of Directors are contained excluding any shares of that class held in the Companys Articles.
They include: Subject to the provisions of the as Treasury shares or with the sanction the number of Directors must not be Companies Acts, the Board may pay of a special resolution passed at a less than two or more than 15: the Board such interim dividends as appear to the separate general meeting of the holders may appoint any person to be a Director: Board to be justi ed by the financial of those shares.
The necessary quorum any Director so appointed by the Board position of the Company and may applying to any such separate general shall hold of ce only until the next also pay any dividend payable at a xed meeting is two persons holding or general meeting and shall then be rate at intervals settled by the Board representing by proxy not less than one eligible for election: each Director must whenever the financial position of the third in nominal value of the issued retire from of ce at the third Annual Company, in the opinion of the Board, shares of the class excluding any shares General Meeting after the Annual justi es its payment.
If the Board acts in of that class held as Treasury shares, General Meeting at which he she was good faith, it shall not incur any liability but at any adjourned meeting one last elected.
However, in line with the to the holders of any shares for any loss holder present in person or by proxy 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, all they may suffer in consequence of the whatever the number of shares held Directors will stand for annual election payment of an interim or xed dividend by him will constitute a quorum: every at the 2019 AGM.
on any other class of shares ranking holder of shares of the class present in pari passu with or after those shares.
person or by proxy excluding any shares The Deferred Shares confer no right to of that class held as Treasury shares is participate in the pro ts of the Company.
entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of the class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED A Director may be removed by special Powers in relation to the Rights under the employee resolution of the Company.
In addition, Company issuing or buying share scheme the of ce of a Director must be vacated back its own shares Estera Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee if: i they resign their of ce by notice of the Aggreko Employees Bene t Trust, The Directors were granted authority in writing delivered to the of ce or holds 0.76% of the issued share capital at the last Annual General Meeting tendered at a meeting of the Board: of the Company as at 5 March 2019 on held in 2018 to allot relevant securities or ii by notice in writing they offer to trust for the bene t of the employees up to a nominal amount of 4,126,149. resign and the Board resolves to accept and former employees of the Group and That authority will apply until the earlier such offer: or iii their resignation is their dependants.
The voting rights in of 30 June 2019 or at the conclusion of requested by all of the other Directors relation to these shares are exercised by the Annual General Meeting for 2019. and all of the other Directors are not less the Trustee and there are no restrictions At this years Annual General Meeting, than three in number: or iv a registered on the exercise of the voting of, or the shareholders will be asked to grant an medical practitioner who is treating that acceptance of any offer relating to, the authority to allot relevant securities up Director gives a written opinion to the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive to a nominal amount of 4,126,149, such Company stating that that Director has all dividends on the shares unless authority to apply until the end of next become physically or mentally incapable requested to do otherwise by the years Annual General Meeting or, if of acting as a Director and may remain Company in writing.
earlier, until the close of business on so for more than three months: or v 30 June 2020. by reason of a Directors mental health, a court makes an order which wholly Going concern and viability Special resolutions will also be proposed or partly prevents that Director from statements to renew the Directors power to make personally exercising any powers non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to The going concern statement is included or rights which that Director would a nominal amount of 1,237,844. on page 101 of the financial statements.
otherwise have: or vi they are absent The Company was also authorised without the permission of the Board The viability statement is included at the Annual General Meeting held from meetings of the Board whether on page 45 of the Strategic Report.
in 2018 to make market purchases of or not an alternate Director appointed up to 25,612,820 Ordinary Shares.
This by him attends for six consecutive Change of control authorisation will expire on the earlier months and the Board resolves that The Company has in place a number of the conclusion of the Annual General his of ce is vacated: or vii they become of agreements with advisers, financial Meeting of the Company for 2019 or bankrupt or compound with their institutions and customers which 30 June 2019. creditors generally: or viii they are contain certain termination rights which prohibited by law from being a Director: A special resolution will also be proposed would have an effect on a change of or ix they cease to be a Director by at this years Annual General Meeting control.
The Directors believe these virtue of the Companies Acts or are to renew the Directors authority to agreements to be commercially sensitive removed from of ce pursuant to repurchase the Companys Ordinary and that their disclosure would be the Articles.
The authority will seriously prejudicial to the Company: be limited to a maximum of 25,612,820 accordingly, they do not intend to Directors con icts of interest Ordinary Shares and sets the minimum disclose speci c details of these.
and maximum prices which may The Company has procedures in place In addition, all of the Companys share be paid.
for monitoring and managing con icts schemes contain provisions which, in of interest.
Should a Director become the event of a change of control, would The Company may at any time, without aware that they, or their connected result in outstanding options and awards obtaining the sanction of the holders of parties, have an interest in an existing becoming exercisable, subject to the the Deferred Shares: or proposed transaction with Aggreko, rules of the relevant schemes.
a Appoint any person to execute on they should notify the Board in writing There are no agreements between the behalf of any holder of Deferred or at the next Board meeting.
Directors Company and its Directors or employees Shares a transfer of all or any of have a continuing duty to update any providing for compensation for loss the Deferred Shares and or an changes to these con icts.
of of ce or employment that occurs agreement to transfer the same because of a takeover bid.
to the Company or to such person Powers of the Directors as the Directors may determine, Subject to the provisions of the in any case for not more than one Disclosure of information Companies Acts, the Articles and to any penny for all the Deferred Shares to the Companys auditor directions given by the Company in then being purchased from him her: In accordance with Section 418 of the general meeting by special resolution, and Companies Act 2006, the Directors who the business of the Company is b Cancel all or any of the Deferred held of ce at the date of approval of this managed by the Board, which may Shares so purchased by the Directors Report con rm that, so far as exercise all the powers of the Company Company in accordance with they are each aware, there is no relevant whether relating to the management the Companies Acts.
audit information as fide ned by Section of the business of the Company or not.
418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of In particular, the Board may exercise all which the Companys auditor is unaware: Securities carrying the powers of the Company to borrow and each Director has taken all the steps special rights money and to mortgage or charge all that they ought to have taken as a or any part of the undertaking, property No person holds securities in the Director to make themselves aware of and assets present and future and Company carrying special rights with any relevant audit information and to uncalled capital of the Company and regard to control of the Company.
establish that the Companys auditor to issue debentures and other securities, is aware of that information.
whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or any third party.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 82 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The tables below present the principal Indemnity of of cers Pensions findings from GHG analysis of the Under Article 154 of the Articles, the The assets of the UK fide ned-bene t previous two years: Company may indemnify any Director or pension fund are controlled by the other of cer against any liability, subject Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Total GHG emissions to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
Trustee Limited: they are held separately by GHG protocol scope The Articles grant an indemnity to the from the assets of the Company and tCO e year 2018 2017 2 Directors against any liability for the invested by independent fund Scope 1 6,259,024 14,716,676 costs of legal proceedings where managers.
These segregated funds Scope 2 17,017 21,414 judgement is given in their favour.
cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been Scope 3 6,999,628 2,954,104 Under the authority conferred by appointed by the Company and, in Article 154, the Company has granted Total 13,275,669 17,692,195 addition, two member-nominated indemnities to Directors and of cers trustees have been appointed.
This fund of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Total GHG emissions was closed to new employees joining The indemnities do not apply to any by fleet nonfleet the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK tCO e year 2018 2017 claim which arises out of fraud, default, 2 employees are now offered membership negligence or breach of duciary duty Fleet 13,149,392 17,556,543 of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
or trust by the indemni ed person.
Nonfleet 126,277 135,652 In addition, the Company may purchase Greenhouse gas emissions Total 13,275,669 17,692,195 and maintain for any Director or other In line with the Companys Act 2006, of cer, insurance against any liability.
In 2018, we emitted 13,275,669 tonnes of we are reporting on our greenhouse The Company maintains appropriate CO e, a decrease of 25% over 2017.
In line gas GHG emissions.
We have used the 2 insurance cover against legal action with previous years, the results show that method outlined in the GHG Protocol brought against its Directors and 99% of GHG emissions arise from the Corporate Accounting and Reporting of cers and the Directors and of cers operation of our fleet when it is out on Standard revised edition, using the of its subsidiaries.
There are three main factors driving location-based Scope 2 calculation our annual GHG emissions: the fuel type method, together with the latest Equal opportunities our customers use: the pattern of their emission factors from recognised public usage: and the fuel ef ciency of the fleet.
Aggreko is committed to promoting sources including the UK Department equal opportunities for all, irrespective for Business, Energy and Industrial As can be seen above, there is a of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any Strategy BEIS, the US Energy signi cant decrease in fleet emissions.
other considerations that do not affect Information Administration EIA, the This is due to the use of more accurate a persons ability to perform their job.
US Environmental Protection Agency ef ciency assumptions in the conversion Our policies for recruitment, training, EPA and the Intergovernmental of running hours to fuel consumption career development and promotion of Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
litres for diesel generators within Rental employees are based on the suitability Solutions RS and Power Solutions Scope 1 emissions are from those of the individual and give those who are Industrial PSI.
In 2018, as part of our activities owned and operated by disabled equal treatment with the able ongoing digital strategy we launched Aggreko, and include fuel combusted bodied where appropriate.
Employees a project to more accurately calculate in the Aggreko generator fleet by far the disabled after joining the Group are the emissions from our thermal assets.
greatest proportion of emissions : fuel given suitable training for alternative Using the data from our 15,000 assets combusted in Aggreko premises boilers: employment with Aggreko or elsewhere.
which are connected to our central fuel combusted in Aggreko owned analytics platform and our advanced vehicles: refrigerant gas lost from analytics capability we were able to Human rights Aggreko A C units or vehicles: and construct a model which provided a emissions of SF6.
Scope 1 emissions As we continue to grow our business in more accurate load factor for 17 of our are considered to be those over which developing countries, we recognise that node sizes.
Previously we have used the Company has the most control.
human rights are a concern in many an assumed average load factor for regions in which we operate.
We have Scope 2 emissions are from electricity each node size but our model was a responsibility to all of our stakeholders consumed in Aggreko owned premises.
able to provide actual values based on to ensure that all of our interactions with Although the consumption of the automated data from our assets.
These them meet or exceed the standards of electricity occurs at Aggreko premises, accurate load factors were used to create compliance set out in our ethics policies, the electricity itself is generated by a new ef ciency assumption conversions approach to equal opportunities, health third party i. e. the power station and for the 17 tested nodes, and also for the and safety policies, environmental actual emissions from the production remainder of nodes within RS and PSI policies and grievance mechanisms, of the electricity occur without using a nearest neighbour approach.
all of which are explained in detail Aggrekos control, hence why this The outcome of this improvement in throughout this report.
In addition, is a separate scope.
accuracy is a decrease in fleet emissions we manage risks in relation to talent of 46% for RS and 36% for PSI, as Scope 3 emissions are everything else, management and health and safety compared to the 2017 assessment.
and consist primarily of the upstream within our risk management framework.
emissions from fuel combusted in the While all these matters are linked, to a Another signi cant change for the 2018 Aggreko fleet upstream emissions are greater or lesser extent, to human rights, results is a shift in emissions from Scope from all activities associated with the we prefer to address them as part of our 1 to Scope 3.
Historically, Aggreko has fuel before it is actually combusted, so operations, rather than as a separate reported the direct emissions from its extraction, re ning, transportation issue.
We continue to evaluate all generator fleet fuel consumption under etc.
: other Scope 3 emissions include potential risks and do not think that Scope 1 for the entire fleet.
However, transport of the fleet by third-party human rights present material issues recent review of Aggrekos operating vehicles: business travel air and rail for our business.
practices has prompted the need to travel etc : and waste and water re-assign a portion of fleet emissions supply treatment.
as Scope 3, with effect from the 2018 reporting period.
Aggreko takes an Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED operational control approach to its Important events since Revenue intensity ration tCO e Greenhouse Gas Assessment, as 2 31 December 2018 thousand GBP described in the GHG Protocol Corporate There have been no important events Accounting and Reporting Standard affecting the Company or any subsidiary revised edition.
Under the operational 2018 7.57 since 31 December 2018. control approach, assets such as the 2017 10.42 generator fleet are considered to fall 2016 11.89 within Scope 1 if the reporting company Political donations 2015 11.76 has the full authority to introduce and No political donations were made during 2014 11.84 implement its operating policies at the financial year 2017: nil.
This is true for Power Note the 2017 value has changed from 10.22 due to accounting changes.
Solutions Utility, where Aggreko sells Approval of the Strategic power to speci ed clients, with Aggreko While normalising emissions by Revenue Report and Directors Report personnel maintaining presence on the can be informative we feel that running project site to control the day-to-day The Strategic Report set out on pages hours the number of hours our fleet is running of the equipment to meet the 1 to 45 and Directors Report set out on operational for is a more suitable power demand.
Within Rental Solutions pages 46 to 85 were approved by the intensity metric to measure year-on-year and Power Solutions Industrial Aggreko Board on 6 March 2019 and have been performance.
The chart below shows rents out fleet equipment to customers signed by the Company Secretary on relative emissions using the running for short to medium-term hire.
Under behalf of the Board.
hours intensity metric for reporting years this contract the equipment is delivered 2014 to 2018. to site by Aggreko at which point the customer takes over operational control Running hour intensity ration tCO e for the duration of the lease.
As outlined 2 running hour in the GHG Protocol, the direct emissions from the fleet rented in this way would be considered Scope 1 for the lessee 2018 0.25 Peter Kennerley and Scope 3 for the lessor Aggreko.
2017 0.34 Group Legal Director and The result is that fleet emissions within 0.34 2016 Company Secretary Power Solutions Utility remain as Scope 1, 0.34 2015 6 March 2019 and fleet emissions within Power 2014 0.33 Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions are now categorised as Scope 3.
In 2015, we undertook an Energy In line with best practice, our GHG Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS accounting systems include an estimate assessment in line with the UK of the upstream GHG emissions Environment Agency requirements and associated with fuel supply chains: can con rm that we are compliant with in 2018, this contributed 16% of fleet the regulations.
Our next assessment is combustion emissions, accounting scheduled for 2019. for 30% of Scope 3 emissions.
In addition, Aggrekos Northern Europe In terms of the nonfleet activities, business achieved CEMARS Carbon emissions from activities associated with and Energy Management Reduction premises use energy, waste, water and Certi cation in 2017.
CEMARS allows refrigerant gases, business travel and large organisations or high emissions company vehicles have all decreased industries to measure their greenhouse compared to 2017.
The most signi cant gas emissions, put in place plans to reduction is observed within premises reduce them and have both of these emissions -38% due to greatly reduced steps independently certi ed.
It is the loss of refrigerant gases.
Conversely, first global greenhouse gas certi cation emissions from third-party logistics have scheme to be accredited to the increased by 68%, largely due to higher internationally recognised ISO 14065 volume of road and sea freight reported standard.
Aggreko was the first rental by Jebel Ali Operations.
company to meet this standard.
The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit of physical activity or Branches economic output, with a declining Subsidiaries of the Company have intensity ratio re ecting a positive established branches in a number of performance improvement.
In 2013, different countries in which they operate.
we chose to report Revenue Intensity as a suitable metric to measure year Auditor on year performance.
Resolutions re-appointing KPMG As can be seen from the first chart, as the Companys and Groups relative emissions expressed in tCO e 2 auditor and authorising the Audit k have decreased signi cantly 27% Committee to determine its from 2017 due to the aforementioned remuneration will be proposed at absolute reduction in fleet emissions.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 84
