BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCES The Board scheduled four Board, three Audit and Risk Committee and two Remuneration Committee meetings in 2018.
These were supplemented with ad hoc meetings to discuss matters arising between these meetings.
Other than the Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, all Directors are members of all Board Committees.
Scheduled Meeting Attendances Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lord Smith 4 4 - - - - Anthony Brooke 4 4 3 3 2 2 Clare Dobie 4 4 3 3 2 2 Chris Samuel 4 4 3 3 2 2 Karl Sternberg 4 4 3 3 2 2 Gregor Stewart 4 4 3 3 2 2 In addition to the above scheduled meetings, the Board met on four other occasions either in person or by telephone during the year and there was one additional Audit and Risk Committee meeting held.
A number of ad hoc committees were established to deal with specific activities during the year which involved some or all of the Directors.
POLICY ON BOARD DIVERSITY Alliance Trust recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board level as important in maintaining good corporate governance and Board effectiveness.
The Board members should include different skills, regional and industry experience, background, race and gender.
These differences will be considered in determining the composition of the Board and when possible should be balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments must be made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
In reviewing Board composition the benefits of all aspects of diversity will be considered including, but not limited to, those described above, in order to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
In identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, the Board will consider candidates on merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
As part of the selection process, where search agents are used, they are currently required in preparing their long list to include female candidates of at least 33% of the number submitted for consideration.
Over time the Board intends to achieve at least 33% female representation on the Board.
As part of its Board and Committee evaluation reported on in more detail on page 41 the Board and Board Committees diversity was considered.
The Board concluded that the current Directors had the appropriate and necessary level of skills and experience to manage the Trust in its current structure and that it would not be appropriate to remove and replace any of the current Board members nor to incur increased expense to appoint additional directors purely to meet its gender diversity target.
The longest serving Director was appointed in December 2014 with the remainder being appointed between June 2015 and May 2016.
DIRECTORS SKILLS We set out in the table below the mix of key skills and experience that the Board recognises it must possess to manage and govern effectively.
In addition to these key skills, the Board also has experience in Investment, Financial Oversight, Risk, Strategy and Change, and Corporate Finance.
Financial Business Asset Investment Marketing and Board experience Services Leadership Management Trusts Distribution Lord Smith Anthony Brooke Clare Dobie Chris Samuel Karl Sternberg Gregor Stewart | 40 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
