BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lord Smith Gregor Stewart Karl Sternberg Chairman Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Lord Smith joined the Board in Chair of Audit and Risk Committee and Member of Audit and Risk Committee member of Remuneration Committee 2016.
He was Chief Executive Officer and of Remuneration Committee of Deutsche Asset Management, Gregor is the Trusts designated financial Karl has been a member of the Board Chairman of The Weir Group, SSE PLC expert on the Audit and Risk Committee since 2015. and the UK Green Investment Bank and is the Director responsible for Karl was a founding partner of Oxford and Non-Executive Director of engagement with the Trusts employees.
He has had an Standard Bank Group Limited.
Gregor joined the Board in 2014 and executive career in fund management Lord Smith was formerly President of chairs Alliance Trusts Audit and Risk at Deutsche Asset Management, the Institute of Chartered Accountants Committee.
He is also a Non-Executive latterly as both its Global Head of Scotland.
He has also been a Director of Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
of Equities and Chief Investment Governor of the BBC, and a member Officer for Europe and Asia Pacific.
Gregor was Finance Director for the of the Financial Services Authority and insurance division of Lloyds Banking the Financial Reporting Council.
Group, including Scottish Widows, and a member of the Groups Finance Board.
He brings over 20 years experience at Ernst & Young, with ten years as a partner in the firms Financial Services practice.
Chris joined the Board in 2015. chairs Alliance Trusts Remuneration Clare ran a marketing consultancy Chris was Chief Executive of Ignis Committee.
Before that she was Asset Management from 2009-2014 Anthony was a Vice Chairman of Group Head of Marketing at GAM and was previously a Director and S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd and until 2010 formerly Global Asset Management Chief Operating Officer of Gartmore was a Non-Executive Director of the and served on its Executive Business and Hill Samuel Asset Management PR consultancy, Huntsworth PLC.
Prior to that, Clare held and a partner at Cambridge Place a number of roles at Barclays Global Investment Management.
He is a Investors, including Head of Marketing.
Current Appointments Current Appointments Current Appointments Quintessentially UK Aberdeen New Thai Defaqto Non-Executive Director Investment Trust PLC Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Investment Committee of Sarasin and Partners LLP Director the National Portrait Gallery Non-Executive Director Member BMO Capital and Income BlackRock Throgmorton Trust PLC Investment Trust PLC Investment Committee of Chairman Non-Executive Director Christs College, Cambridge JPMorgan Japanese Investment Member Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund PLC Trust PLC Non-Executive Director Various Endowments Chairman Adviser UIL Limited Non-Executive Director Listed operating companies and their subsidiaries Unlisted operating companies and their subsidiaries Investment companies Other | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 39
