LARGEST 20 INVESTMENTS LARGEST 20 INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 The following are the largest 20 global stocks selected by our stock pickers.
A number of these stocks have been invested in by more than one of our stock pickers.
A full list of all of our holdings can be found on pages 93 to 96 and on our website at www.
co. uk Country of Listing India HDFC Bank Ltd. HDFC is an Indian bank.
It offers a wide range of services including both corporate Sector Financials banking and custodial services.
It is also active in the Selected by stock pickers 2 treasury and capital markets and provides project advisory services and capital market products such % of quoted equities 2.1 as Global Deposit Receipts, Euro currency loans, and % of MSCI ACWI 0.0 Euro currency bonds.
Value of Holding m 53.1 Country of Listing United States Microsoft Corporation develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports software products including Information Technology Sector Microsoft Office.
The company offers a range of other Selected by stock pickers 3 software products including operating systems, server applications, business and consumer applications.
It also % of quoted equities 1.8 offers software development tools and software for the % of MSCI ACWI 1.8 Internet and intranets.
In addition, it develops video game consoles and digital music entertainment devices.
Value of Holding m 45.7 United States Country of Listing Alphabet Inc. is the holding company for Google but also has other subsidiaries which provide web-based Sector Communication Services search, advertisements, maps, software applications, Selected by stock pickers 3 mobile operating systems, consumer content, enterprise solutions, commerce and hardware products.
% of quoted equities 1.7 % of MSCI ACWI 1.3 Value of Holding m 43.7 Country of Listing United Kingdom Unilever manufactures branded and packaged consumer goods, including food, detergents, Sector Consumer Staples fragrances, home, and personal care products.
Selected by stock pickers 2 % of quoted equities 1.5 % of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 38.5 United States Country of Listing The Western Union Company offers global money transfer services.
It offers consumer to consumer Sector Information Technology money transfer and bill paying services, and sells Selected by stock pickers 2 money orders.
% of quoted equities 1.4 % of MSCI ACWI 0.0 Value of Holding m 35.9 Country of Listing United States UnitedHealth Group Incorporated owns and manages organised health systems in the United States and Sector Health Care internationally.
It provides products for employers to Selected by stock pickers 2 enable them to plan and administer employee benefit programs.
UnitedHealth also provides specialised care % of quoted equities 1.4 services for the elderly.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.6 Value of Holding m 35.7 | 24 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV LARGEST 20 INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Country of Listing United States HCA Healthcare, Inc. offers health care services.
This includes diagnosis, treatments, consultancy, Sector Health Care nursing, surgeries as well as medical education, Selected by stock pickers 1 physician resource centres, and training programs.
HCA Healthcare serves patients in the United States.
% of quoted equities 1.4 % of MSCI ACWI 0.1 Value of Holding m 34.6 United States Country of Listing Oracle Corporation supplies software for enterprise information management.
It offers databases and Sector Information Technology relational servers, application development and Selected by stock pickers 2 decision support tools, and enterprise business applications.
Oracle's software runs on a variety % of quoted equities 1.3 of hardware options including network computers, % of MSCI ACWI 0.3 personal digital assistants, set-top devices, PCs, mainframes and massively parallel computers.
Value of Holding m 32.9 Country of Listing United States Anthem Inc. operates as a health benefits company.
It provides health, dental, vision, and pharmacy Sector Health Care benefits, as well as life and disability insurance.
Selected by stock pickers 1 It also offers a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to large and small employers, % of quoted equities 1.3 individuals and to the Medicaid, and Medicare markets.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 32.4 Country of Listing United States Cigna Corporation operates as an insurance company.
It offers life, accident, disability, supplemental, Sector Health Care medicare, and dental insurance products and services, Selected by stock pickers 1 as well as retirement, health insurance, and annuity products.
Cigna serves individuals, families, and % of quoted equities 1.2 businesses worldwide.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 29.3 Country of Listing United States Charter Communications, Inc. operates as a cable telecommunications company.
It offers cable Sector Communication Services broadcasting, internet, voice, and other business Selected by stock pickers 1 services in the United States.
% of quoted equities 1.1 % of MSCI ACWI 0.1 Value of Holding m 27.2 Country of Listing Hong Kong AIA Group Limited offers insurance and financial services.
It provides life insurance for individuals, Sector Financials businesses, accident, and health insurance, Selected by stock pickers 2 as well as retirement planning and wealth management services.
% of quoted equities 1.1 % of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 26.6 Country of Listing United States Aflac, Inc. is a holding company.
Its subsidiaries provide insurance to individuals in the United States Sector Financials and Japan.
These include accident and disability, Selected by stock pickers 1 cancer expense, short-term disability, sickness and hospital indemnity, hospital intensive care, and % of quoted equities 1.1 fixed-benefit dental plans.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.1 Value of Holding m 26.6 | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 25 LARGEST 20 INVESTMENTS CONTINUED LARGEST 20 INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Country of Listing United States Philip Morris International Inc. operates as a holding company.
The company, through its subsidiaries, Sector Consumer Staples licensees, produces, sells, distributes, and markets a Selected by stock pickers 2 wide range of branded cigarettes and tobacco products.
They also develop smoke-free products that deliver % of quoted equities 1.0 nicotine without the harmful smoke of cigarettes.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.3 Philip Morris International serves customers worldwide.
Value of Holding m 25.1 United Kingdom Country of Listing Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC manufactures and distributes a wide range of household, toiletry, health, Sector Consumer Staples and food products on a global basis.
Its products Selected by stock pickers 1 include fabric treatments, disinfectant spray and cleaners, dishwashing detergent, personal care, % of quoted equities 1.0 food, and over the counter drugs.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.1 Value of Holding m 24.9 Country of Listing Ireland Ryanair Holdings plc provides low fare passenger airline services to destinations in Europe.
Sector Industrials Selected by stock pickers 1 % of quoted equities 1.0 % of MSCI ACWI 0.0 Value of Holding m 24.8 United States Country of Listing Broadcom Inc. designs, develops, and markets digital and analog semiconductors.
It offers a range of Sector Information Technology wireless components, storage adapters, controllers, Selected by stock pickers 1 and other electonic products.
Broadcom markets its products worldwide.
% of quoted equities 1.0 % of MSCI ACWI 0.3 Value of Holding m 24.7 Country of Listing United Kingdom TP ICAP PLC provide brokering services to counterparties operating in major wholesale over-the-counter and Sector Financials exchange traded financial and commodity markets.
Selected by stock pickers 2 It also offers brokering services in fixed income securities and their derivatives, interest rate derivatives, treasury % of quoted equities 1.0 products, equities, and energy.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.0 Value of Holding m 24.1 Country of Listing United States CVS Health Corporation is an integrated pharmacy health care provider.
Its offerings include pharmacy Sector Health Care benefit management services, mail order, retail and Selected by stock pickers 1 specialty pharmacy, disease management programs, and retail clinics.
It operates drugstores throughout % of quoted equities 0.9 the US and Puerto Rico.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 23.5 Country of Listing Denmark Novo Nordisk A S develops, produces, and markets pharmaceutical products.
It focuses on diabetes Sector Health Care care and offers insulin delivery systems and other Selected by stock pickers 1 diabetes products.
It also works in areas such as haemostatis management, growth disorders, and % of quoted equities 0.9 hormone replacement therapy.
% of MSCI ACWI 0.2 Value of Holding m 22.5 | 26 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
