WHAT WE DO OUR INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE As announced last year, we have reviewed our Investment Objective and Policy and are proposing some changes to the wording to reflect our current investment approach.
There will be no change in the way the Trusts portfolio is actually managed.
The full text of the proposed new investment objective will be set out in the Notice of our Annual General Meeting that will be issued to shareholders.
However, we summarise here the proposed changes.
WHAT WE ARE NOT CHANGING PROPOSED INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE Our strategy has not changed and we The changes in wording that are being proposed are: remain committed to investing in global To explain that the Trust will continue to primarily invest in global equities equities.
As part of our agreed strategy we and to have as its objective that it shall be a core investment delivering a are progressing the sale of our non-core real return over the long term through capital growth and a rising dividend.
In addition, the sale of Alliance Trust Savings will, once completed, see the value To explain that through our investment manager we appoint a number of investments in operating subsidiaries of stock pickers with different styles and approaches who each select and reduce to nil.
invest in equities across a wide range of different sectors and industries for our portfolio.
Our maximum level of gearing remains unchanged and we envisage that for the To make clear that we will continue to achieve an appropriate spread of foreseeable future it will remain around risk by holding a diversified portfolio with no single investment exceeding the current 10%.
10% at the time of investment of the Trusts total assets.
To confirm no change to our use of gearing which will continue to be a maximum of 30% of the Trusts net assets and that derivatives can be used to hedge, enhance and protect positions.
CURRENT INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER % Alliance Trust is an investment company with investment trust status.
100 The Trusts objective is to be a core investment for investors seeking 6.6 8.0 1.3 100.0 1.3 increasing value over the long term.
The Trust has no fixed asset allocation 97.4 benchmark and it invests in a wide range of asset classes throughout the world to achieve its objective.
The Trusts focus is to generate a real return for shareholders over the medium to long term by a combination of capital 2.6 growth and a rising dividend.
1.3 The Trust pursues its objective by investing in both quoted and unquoted 90 90.8 90.7 equities across the globe in different sectors and industries: investing 80 70 internationally in fixed income securities: investing in other asset classes 60 and financial instruments, either directly or through investment vehicles and 50 investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to expand 40 30 into other related activities.
20 10 The Trust is prepared to invest any proportion of the total corporate capital 0 in any of the above asset classes, subject only to the restrictions imposed 2016 2017 2018 2019 on the Trust by the regulatory or fiscal regime within which we operate.
However, the Trust would expect equities to comprise at least 50% of its Equity portfolio portfolio.
Changes to the asset allocation will be dependent upon attractive Investments in operating subsidiary companies investment opportunities being available.
Non-core investments Where market conditions permit, the Trust will use gearing of not more than Source: WTW.
30% of its net assets at any given time.
The Trust can use derivative instruments The expected 2019 position shown assumes completion of to hedge, enhance and protect positions, including currency exposures.
disposal of non-core assets and the sale of Alliance Trust Savings.
| 6 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
