GOING CONCERN STATEMENT The Trusts business activities are set out on page 1 and maintaining a business model which is capable of delivering pages 6 to 8 with the principal risks which could impact over time a continuing economic return to shareholders whilst on performance set out on pages 32 to 34.
The financial absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
As at statements are set out on pages 65 to 92 along with an 31 December 2018 the Trusts total net assets were 2.4bn analysis of its borrowings in Note 14 on page 82.
In their with net gearing of 6.9% and gross gearing of 10.2%.
The level assessment of Going Concern the Directors consider of borrowing is comfortably below the investment policy both liquidity and solvency risks and whether the Trust gearing restriction of 30% of net assets at any given time.
has adequate financial resources to continue in operational Most of the likely liquidity requirements such as loan existence for at least the next 12 months.
payments and dividends are timetabled and therefore Liquidity is concerned with the Trusts ability to liquidate readily foreseeable, while others such as share buybacks assets or access new sources of short-term funds in the are subject to the Boards discretion.
The Directors are time needed to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The majority satisfied that unexpected liquidity and solvency needs are of the Trusts assets are in listed securities on recognised not significant relative to the size of the Trusts portfolio stock exchanges which are readily realisable even in volatile and that they could be readily met without compromising markets.
In addition as at 31 December 2018 the Trust also had 133m of Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are unused committed funding lines.
The Trusts total borrowing set out in Note 22 on pages 85 to 89. facility at the year end was 360m, of which 227m was The Directors consider that the Trust has adequate financial drawn down: comprising 67m variable short term loan, resources to enable it to continue in operational existence 100m of long-term loan notes issued in July 2014 and for at least 12 months from the date of these Accounts.
60m of long-term loan notes issued in November 2018.
Accordingly the Directors believe that it is appropriate to Solvency is concerned with the Trusts ability to meet its continue to adopt the Going Concern basis for preparing liabilities in full.
This involves managing the Trusts capital by the financial statements.
| 50 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
