I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV THE INVESTMENT MANAGER HOW WE MANAGE THE PORTFOLIO HOW THE STOCK PICKERS ARE MANAGED 1 We have appointed Willis Towers Watson WTW NASDAQ: Performance of the Trusts overall portfolio is managed by WLTW, a leading investment group with roots dating back to WTWs investment committee.
The committee is responsible 1828, as our investment manager, and it in turn has appointed for driving outperformance of the portfolio, monitoring and a number of managers to pick and invest in stocks for overseeing stock picker performance, reviewing portfolio the Trusts portfolio.
The managers mandate is to pick and blending and risk balancing, implementing any hedging and invest in stocks while WTW manages the overall portfolio gearing - as well as tight cost management.
This process and is responsible for balancing risk at the stock, sector and is supported by stock level data feeds and monitoring, a geographical level.
breadth of analytics tools, and regular meetings with the stock pickers.
2 3 With $116bn of assets under management and $2.5trn under advice, WTWs size and global presence brings investors in The team is led by Craig Baker, Global Chief Investment the Trust advantages that many other investment managers Officer at WTW, with 24 years investment experience.
He is supported by three senior industry professionals with complementary skills and together they have over With a research and portfolio management team numbering 75 years of combined investment experience: 130 42 in equities alone, WTWs primary goal is to identify managers who will deliver long-term value for their clients David Shapiro, Co-portfolio manager, with 31 years of net of fees.
WTW leveraged its scale and industry leading investment experience, 17 of which as UK Equity Fund Manager.
position to design a portfolio that met the specific needs Mark Davis, Co-portfolio manager, with 20 years of of the Trust while at the same time negotiating highly investment experience, Head of Portfolio Management competitive fees.
Although WTW has been successfully running similar Stuart Gray, Senior Equity Manager Researcher, with 15 years strategies for institutional investors for some time, the of investment experience.
portfolio built for the Trust is unique for an investment trust.
While it is not uncommon to bring existing funds together in a multi-manager structure, the Trusts portfolio is different, WTWS EQUITY RESEARCH PROCESS in that it comprises the highest conviction stocks of eight 4 best-in-class managers in a single, bespoke portfolio.
WTW focuses on qualitative factors supported by data analytics.
Most of the eight are not otherwise accessible by UK retail investors.
Between them, the managers cover a range of Universe of equity products stock-picking styles which reduces the risk that is often IDEA 16,850 Multiple research team inputs GENERATION faced by investors selecting a single, star manager or one universe Desk-based research particular style that can move in and out of favour.
We believe this approach of using several complementary stock pickers On-site meetings engagement DUE 3,900 Follow-up research and contact investing with high-conviction increases the chances of DILIGENCE researched Operation due diligence approval outperformance.
HOW THE STOCK PICKERS ARE SELECTED INVESTMENT Devils advocate 210 DECISION Final skill thesis top rating WTW has drawn on its in-depth knowledge of over 1,500 equity managers and 16,850 equity investment products to select the 20 most appropriate stock pickers.
WTWs quantitative analysis top-rated and assessment of qualitative factors are fundamental to its highly-concentrated selection process, and includes consideration of i investment equity products of which professionals, ii approach insight generation, iii portfolio 8 managers management, iv firm and team stability, v opportunity set, pick stocks for vi alignment and vii environmental, social and governance the Trust beliefs.
We discuss our approach to stewardship and responsible ownership on page 36.
Process recognised by asset managers with WTW voted by asset WTWs considerable global buying power enabled it to managers as having the highest Quality of Research negotiate highly competitive fee levels with the eight managers.
Notes: Figures included above are approximated and rounded.
Sourced from WTW as at December 2018.
As a result, the Trusts investors can now gain exposure to a As rated by WTW.
4 combination of some of the worlds best-in-class managers for less than what many off-the-shelf funds charge.
The Alliance Trust Board has appointed Towers Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited TWIMI as the Trusts Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The AIFM has delegated the management of the Trusts portfolio to Towers Watson Investment Management Limited TWIM.
Both TWIMI and TWIM are members of the Willis Towers Watson group of companies.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 9
