I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV BOARD EVALUATION 2017 EVALUATION 2018 EVALUATION The 2017 Board and Committee evaluation was externally Lintstock has again carried out the Board and Committee facilitated.
The evaluation was carried out by the corporate evaluation but this year the evaluation was completed by advisory firm, Lintstock Limited, and the outputs from the way of both questionnaires and interviews with Directors.
evaluation were considered by the Board in February 2018.
The Board was seen to have performed very well during a A number of areas were identified for potential improvement demanding period of transformation.
The Board noted the during 2018.
These were: work that had been carried out in addressing the points raised addressing Alliance Trust Savings performance at the last evaluation including the improvement in Alliance Trust Savings performance, the recruitment of a marketing focusing on marketing and investment performance and communications manager, ongoing communications with developing the relationship with WTW WTW, management of the discount and the sale of most of discount management the Trusts private equity investments.
The evaluation also identified the sale of the Trusts private A key focus identified for 2019 is the adjustment of the equity investments as a priority.
Trusts activities to reflect the simplification of its business.
A number of additional priorities were also identified for 2019.
These were: Reviewing the operating model for non-investment services Improving marketing arrangements Maintaining a strong understanding of shareholder needs In light of the simplification of the Companys investment portfolio and operational experience since WTW was appointed, the Board is reviewing the way the non-investment services it receives are undertaken and how the delivery of these services needs to develop to reflect the simpler Trust.
A third party adviser has been engaged to assist with this review.
The conclusion of this work will impact the way that the Trust and the Board will evolve.
In terms of marketing arrangements, the Board has initiated a qualitative research project on the way the Trust communicates its investment approach.
The output of this work will be reflected in the Trusts distribution plan for 2019.
Manager Review The Board regularly reviews the performance of WTW.
However, this year we decided to also include WTW in our formal external year end evaluation process.
In terms of the top priorities for WTW for 2019, the following matters were identified: reviewing the Trusts operating model and ways to develop the non-investment services WTW provides: focusing on delivering strong investment performance in order to meet the outperformance target and deliver the Trusts progressive dividend: communicating the differentiating factors in the Trusts approach: and, ensuring the investment management team are proactive in engaging with investors.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 41
