INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT suffered significant underperformance.
It is unusual for the INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE market to be so dominated by a relatively small number of The Trusts equity portfolio returned -4.2% in 2018 before very large-cap growth stocks, and we believe this is not a managers fees and including the effect of managers cash situation that will likely persist over the longer-term.
holdings, compared to the benchmark MSCI All Country Looking further back, value managers have suffered persistent World Index ACWI, which returned -3.3% over the same headwinds for many years now.
Traditional value stocks have period.
The Trusts Net Asset Value NAV Total Return was now experienced the longest period of underperformance slightly lower at -5.4%.
The NAV Total Return reflects the relative to growth stocks in recent years.
Of course, history can impact on performance of Alliance Trust Savings, small provide no guarantee of future market movements, but this holdings in some other investments such as private equity unprecedented run of growth stocks over the past decade is a and mineral rights that are in the process of being sold, dynamic that we do not expect to continue in perpetuity.
the negative impact of the Trusts gearing, fees and costs.
It also reflects the positive impact of buybacks.
The Total As the observation often attributed to Mark Twain says, Shareholder Return, which also takes into account the history does not repeat itself, but it often rhymes.
We have movement in the discount to NAV over the year, was -6.1%.
heard several of our managers describe the similarities that they observe between the market in 2018 and past stock While disappointing, the equity portfolios underperformance market shocks in early 2000 and in 2008.
In particular, they versus the benchmark for the 12-month period needs to have highlighted the concentration of capital in technology be put in the context of challenging conditions for equity stocks with lofty growth expectations.
We do not think trying markets, particularly the highly volatile last quarter of the year, to time markets is sensible but we are conscious of warning and what was a difficult period for many active managers.
signs, not just from pockets of lofty valuations but also It is important to note that despite 2018 the equity portfolio central bank behaviour, threats of trade wars and political has still outperformed the benchmark since the current uncertainty.
We are minded that this has been a long cycle investment approach was put in place in April 2017. of growth and that cycles inevitably turn.
Equity Portfolio Of the Trusts eight global stock pickers those that The key driver of negative equity returns in 2018 was monetary outperformed the benchmark four of them represented tightening by various central banks around the world, designed a mix of investing styles but were mainly growth-focused.
to prevent strong economic growth leading to above-target The underperformers four of them represented predominantly inflation.
The Federal Reserve raised interest rates four times, value styles.
The Trusts emerging markets stocks delivered the Bank of England increased them for the second time strong returns relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
since the Global Financial Crisis and the European Central The three managers that struggled the most all favour the Bank announced that it would stop expanding market liquidity.
value style of investing, but their stock selections in particular Additionally, equity prices were plagued by the threat of trade now look especially attractive on a relative valuation basis, and wars between the two largest economies in the world, the US appear well placed to deliver future outperformance.
This contributed to a more volatile market towards Equity portfolio turnover in 2018 was approximately 60%.
the end of 2018, with global equity indices finishing the year in There was an increase in portfolio trading activity during the the red.
fourth quarter as increased market volatility enabled the 2018 was a challenging year for truly active managers, with a Trusts managers to exploit falling valuations and find new, relatively small number of very large-cap companies delivering exciting opportunities.
During 2018, significant additions to significantly positive returns.
In most years, close to 50% of the Trusts equity portfolio included multinational consumer stocks that make up the index outperform and close to 50% goods conglomerates Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser, both underperform, suggesting that active managers have a roughly purchased in March.
Other sizeable positions established even number of winners and losers to pick from.
However, during the year included US health insurer Cigna, US data in 2018, significantly more stocks underperformed than centre and internet connection services provider Equinix, outperformed because it was generally the mega cap growth and research and development focused global drug companies that did particularly well.
Truly active managers manufacturer AstraZeneca.
who take little notice of the benchmark in the short term tend Our target manager allocations remained constant throughout to be structurally underweight the mega caps, and the Trusts most of the year.
In September, a small adjustment was stock pickers were no different.
This was a slight headwind made to the portfolios target manager weights to reduce the in 2018 unlike 2017.
However, stock selection has continued portfolios exposure to growth stocks in response to growth to be the main driver of returns.
While that led to significant stocks having significantly outperformed the index since the outperformance in 2017, it led to moderate underperformance start of the year.
We rebalanced the weightings to reduce in 2018, but outperformance over the period since 1 April 2017. any biases across styles, factors and geographies.
Our high Managers who did not have exposure to this narrow group of level of conviction in all of the Trusts managers remains high performing growth stocks, in particular, value managers, unchanged, and we believe the portfolio is well positioned to who pick stocks they believe are undervalued by the market, capitalise on future opportunities to deliver outperformance.
| 10 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV Performance Attribution Despite experiencing active management headwinds in Largest 5 Contributors to Equity Portfolio 1 year 2018, the Trusts managers have managed to find a number Total Return of big winners over the course of the year.
Amongst the Average most significant contributors to the Trusts return were San Equity Average Francisco cloud-based software company Salesforce.
com, Portfolio MSCI ACWI Contribution an operator of healthcare facilities, HCA Healthcare, and a Security Name weight % weighting % to Return % health insurance company, Anthem Inc.
com Inc 1.2 1.5 0.5 all present in the Trusts top 10 holdings at some point during Salesforce.
As with previously mentioned HCA Healthcare, Microsoft Corp 1.7 1.5 0.4 UnitedHealth, a US-based company that offers healthcare products and insurance services, was also a significant HCA Healthcare Inc 1.1 0.1 0.4 contributor to returns.
Although the portfolio was not UnitedHealth Group Inc 1.5 0.6 0.3 overweight mega-cap growth stocks, we did have some exposure to large technology companies such as Amazon, Largest 5 Detractors Salesforce.
com and Microsoft, which boosted returns.
to Equity Portfolio However, the tide turned in the fourth quarter and some Total Return 1 year of the previous leaders e. g. Apple, in which our managers Average have long been underweight fell significantly.
Fortunately, Equity Average Portfolio MSCI ACWI Contribution our managers have been rotating their portfolios throughout Security Name weight % weighting % to Return % the year, moving the Trusts overall portfolio positioning from a modest overweight technology stocks at the start CommScope 0.6 0.0 -0.4 Holding Co. Inc of the year, to a modest underweight technology and overweight healthcare.
Hain Celestial Group Inc 0.5 0.0 -0.4 Flex Ltd 0.6 0.0 -0.4 In terms of detractors, we note that stocks which are statistically cheap in earnings or asset terms became Western Digital Corp 0.7 0.0 -0.3 even cheaper during the year.
Examples of detractors Amerprise Financial Inc 0.8 0.0 -0.3 included CommScope, a multinational communications Source: The Bank of New York Mellon Performance & Risk Analytics Europe Limited.
network provider, Flex, an electronics manufacturer, and Note: Contributions to total return are for the equity portfolio only, which may differ Hain Celestial, a global leader and first mover in organic from the Net Asset Value NAV Total Return and Total Shareholder Return.
and natural products, all based in the US, were significant detractors over the year.
We are in continuous conversation with each of our managers to ensure that their thesis on such stocks remains intact and conviction remains high.
Whilst there have been some disappointing performers over this particular 12 month period and we do not expect our managers to be right all the time, our confidence in the managers who hold value-oriented stocks is as strong as ever and we feel that the market painted them in a particularly poor light during 2018.
We believe it would be wrong to make a knee-jerk reaction under such conditions.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 11 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED While the stock pickers are not restrained PORTFOLIO RISK by geography, sector or style, we set The Trusts equity portfolio is managed in order to maintain a neutral balance out below an analysis of how the Trusts across investing styles, geographies and sectors relative to the benchmark, portfolio was structured at the year end.
achieved by careful selection and weighting of managers with complementary investment styles and regional sector exposures.
As a result of this approach, REGION as at 31 December 2018, regional and sector exposures of the equity portfolio were broadly similar to the position at 31 December 2017.
The equity portfolio is currently positioned with a small underweight to the US against the MSCI ACWI: but this is a result of bottom-up stock picking, rather than top-down asset allocation.
With US stocks looking expensive relative to their European and Asian counterparts throughout much of the year, managers have been able to find more attractive opportunities outside of the US.
In much the same vein as the preceding year, 2018 saw numerous external risk factors reappear, as political uncertainty and controversy in all corners of the world continued to dominate headlines.
For a Sterling investor, Brexitassociated risks continued to be a major concern throughout 2018, and despite a number of significant developments in the negotiation process, at the time of writing, many of the realities of post-Brexit Britain remain unclear.
North America 45.5% Since the current investment approach was adopted on 1 April 2017, it is pleasing to see the majority of the Trusts outperformance has been due to managers UK 13.4% stock selection abilities, and the Trust has followed a significantly less volatile Europe 21.9% path than that of the benchmark, the MSCI ACWI.
Asia 16.8% Cash 2.4% Risk summary Active risk 2.5% Portfolio volatility 11.9% Active share 80% Benchmark volatility 12.5% SECTOR Beta 0.94 Number of stocks Portfolio 197 Benchmark 2,727 Source: Factset, BNY Mellon Fund Performance & Risk Analytics Europe Limited and MSCI Inc.
The figures shown for Portfolio and Benchmark above are those used for the calculation of the corresponding risk analysis and will differ from the number of stocks held and the number of stocks in the benchmark.
This is due to the classification of stocks for risk purposes and limited data coverage for certain stocks.
Information Technology 15.4% Financials 14.9% Health Care 13.9% Consumer Discretionary 12.5% Industrials 11.7% Consumer Staples 10.8% Telecommunications 8.9% Materials 3.8% Energy 3.5% Cash 2.4% Utilities 1.4% Real Estate 0.8% | 12 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV GEARING ECONOMIC AND MARKET OUTLOOK FOR 2019 We manage the gearing level for the Trust in accordance Our outlook for 2019 is set against a backdrop of increasingly with the gearing policy set by the Board.
We have maintained difficult global economic conditions and political uncertainty.
a gross level of gearing of around 8.0% throughout much of This uncertainty has brought about significant, and broad 2018.
This is towards the lower end of the range set by the based volatility and price weakness in the equity market.
Board and reflects our central view that whilst markets are We expect active management, especially the concentrated, still projecting expectations for relatively strong growth, we best ideas approach we employ for the Trust, can take expect that global growth will soon begin to slow.
advantage of this volatility by identifying companies that have been sold without regard for their true intrinsic value.
Gross gearing levels have fluctuated between approximately Combining the 20 best such companies from each of 7.5% and 9.5% over the course of the year reflecting market our eight high conviction stock pickers, as well as a less movement.
As at the end of December after the market fall, concentrated selection of emerging markets stocks, we the Trusts gross level of gearing was around the higher end of believe we have created a diversified portfolio that will be this range.
This level of gearing will allow the Trust to benefit able to provide investors with a less volatile and hopefully from leveraged returns in the event of a market rebound.
In November, the Trust took advantage of a historically Because economic policy and political uncertainty are low-yield environment to issue fixed-rate long-dated elevated globally, it is increasingly difficult to predict financing of 60m through three equally-sized unsecured economic outcomes, with an increasing range of potentially privately placed notes with maturities of 15, 25 and 35 years negative ones.
We expect growth in the major economies respectively.
During the process the Trust received several to steadily slow.
While there are many drivers for this, rising offers from which the Board was able to select the most interest rates and the unwinding of quantitative easing by attractive pricing.
The proceeds were used to repay short-term central banks will make developed equity markets overall borrowing on existing floating rate facilities and the Trusts more challenging.
We expect liquidity to fall and volatility total gearing level remained unchanged as a result of to rise.
Market expectations for US earnings growth for 2019 are One of the ways in which the Trust is expected to add optimistic leaving scope for earnings disappointment.
value for its shareholders is by securing long-term, cheap As such, under current valuations, we view more risks to borrowings that would not otherwise be available to an the downside in US equities.
On the other hand, emerging individual investor, and invest these borrowings to generate market equities have been declining over 2018 and are higher returns for its shareholders.
We are pleased that the cheap on a relative basis, with greater potential for growth.
Trusts debt offering received such strong interest, which is a reflection of the confidence the market has in the future The Trusts portfolio is managed in such a way as to ensure success of the Trust.
that stock selection drives returns, and it is stock selection that gives us slight underweight position to the US and slight VOTING overweight position to emerging markets.
WTW has given discretionary voting powers to each of the The Trusts concentrated, best ideas approach should be stock pickers in respect of the equities they have selected well positioned to take advantage of volatile markets, as for the Trust.
Between 1 January 2018 and 31 December investors often overreact when facing escalated volatility 2018, they voted on 2,915 resolutions at company meetings.
market weakness, creating pockets of opportunities for active They voted against or abstained from voting on 10% of these management.
Having worked at a range of large investment resolutions.
Of the resolutions where the management management firms before starting or joining their current recommendation was For, the managers voted against or businesses, the Trusts stock pickers all have extensive abstained on 9% of these resolutions and of the 73 proposals experience of a wide variety of market environments over where the management recommendation was Against, many years, including both bull and bear markets.
They the managers voted with management on 42% of them.
are, therefore, highly skilled at identifying companies with attractive earnings prospects relative to their perceived These votes related to many issues, including: board market value.
We have a high degree of confidence in their composition including director remuneration, incentive abilities to identify the winners and we have already heard compensation and appointment, auditor tenure, the reduction from several of our managers that increased volatility is of company capital and the setting of company dividends.
presenting them with opportunities to invest in what they regard as undervalued stocks.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 13
