I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board has assessed the prospects and viability of the The Trusts business model, strategy and the embedded Trust over a longer period than the 12 months required by characteristics of an investment company have helped the foregoing Going Concern statement.
This assessment define and maintain the stability of the Trust over many has taken into account the current position of the Trust and decades.
The nature and activities of the Trust as a closed its prospects, strategy and planning process as well as its end investment trust lead to a reasonable expectation the principal risks, both current and medium and long term, as Trust will be able to continue in operation and meet its set out on pages 32 to 34. liabilities as they fall due in the future.
Contributory factors in this assessment include: The Boards strategy provides long-term direction and is reviewed on, at least, an annual basis, including five-year The Trust has a long-term investment strategy under forecasts showing expected financial performance.
The which it invests mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed resilience of the agreed strategy is further tested in a series securities.
of severe but plausible downside financial scenarios as part As an investment trust, investing in a global equity portfolio, of the annual review of the prudential consolidated Group the Trust is unlikely to be adversely impacted as a direct Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
result of Brexit regardless of the final direction that it takes.
Even the most severe of these scenarios does not result in a breach of the Trusts banking covenants which are The Trust is structured for long-term outperformance, rather borrowings not to exceed 30% of net tangible assets and than short-term opportunities, and although its investment tangible net asset value of not less than 1.5bn.
target is based on a rolling three year period the Board also regard five years as a sensible timeframe for measuring and The ICAAP, covering a five-year period, is prepared to identify assessing long-term investment performance.
and quantify the Groups risks and level of capital which should be held to cover those risks.
The ICAAP provides a risk The Trust is able to take advantage of its closed-end assessment to identify the principal risks that may adversely investment trust structure.
These include inappropriate business The Trust has put in place unsecured long-term borrowing strategy in relation to investor needs, unfavourable markets arrangements going out to 2053. or inappropriate asset allocation, failure of the Trusts main service providers and regulatory and conduct risks.
The Trust maintains large revenue and capital reserves.
As part of the assessment the Board also considers the The Trust retains title to all assets held by the Custodian sustainability of the Trusts dividend and it believes that which are subject to further safeguards imposed on our progressive dividend policy is also sustainable over the the Depositary.
Based on its assessment and evaluation of the Trusts The risk management framework and controls have various current financial position, its future prospects, and long early warning indicator and risk outlook signposts trends term investment horizon and financing, the Board therefore and triggers events to alert the Board to the potential advent concludes there is a reasonable expectation that the Trust of a scenario.
This approach ensures a link to our business will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities model and strategy and allows a robust identification and as they fall due over the coming five years and beyond: the assessment of the principal risks, and mitigating actions, Board expects this position to continue over many more for the Trust and prudential consolidated Group.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 51
