I STRATEGIC REPORT II III IV SHARE BUYBACKS AND DISCOUNT The discount continued to be relatively stable through the year, trading in a range of 3% to 8%.
The discount was 4.0% at the start of the period and 4.9% at the end of the year, despite a notable reduction in the number of shares bought back, and against the background of an increasingly volatile market.
The average discount was 6.0% compared to the Investment Trust Global Sector average of 2.0%.
Buyback volumes for February and March were dominated by two large institutional sell orders.
Following a three-month period to the end of July 2018, which saw very little buyback activity, the second half of the year, and the fourth quarter in particular, was characterised by heightened market volatility.
The Board bought back 1.9% of shares during the second half of 2018, supporting the discount in a narrow range against this backdrop.
Since mid-December, a more stable supply demand pattern developed and buybacks were undertaken only occasionally.
Shareholders may have noticed a sharp narrowing then widening of discounts across the investment trust sector in late December, which saw the Trusts discount almost touch 3%.
This was caused by short but significant falls then rallies in the markets, which were not immediately mirrored by movements in the Trusts share price.
While the relative stability of our discount over much of the year is encouraging, the Board continues to monitor the situation and will take advantage of any significant widening of the discount to buy back shares and produce Net Asset Value accretion for shareholders.
The weighted average discount of the shares bought back during 2018 was 5.5%.
All of the 14.0m shares bought back have been cancelled.
The number of shares bought back in 2018 was the lowest since 2014.
The chart below shows our discount during 2018 and the level of our buyback activity over the year.
SHARE BUYBACKS AND DISCOUNT Discount % Shares m -5.0 4 -5.5 3 -6.0 2 -6.5 1 -7.0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Average discount Share buyback Source: WTW and Morningstar.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 31
