Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Significant shareholdings included in the Directors Report.
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings: Number Percentage In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the following Company of shares of voting rights items have been reported in other sections of the Annual Report and are Volcan Volcan Holdings PLC included in this Directors Report by reference: and Volcan Holdings II PLC 271,802,858 19.35 Details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 74-77 Public Investment Corporation 181,834,825 12.94 BlackRock Inc 81,814,750 5.83 Directors interests in shares at 31 December 2018 and any changes Silchester International Investors LLP 70,110,363 4.99 thereafter, can be found on page 120 of the directors Remuneration Report Genesis Asset Managers LLP 55,426,734 3.95 Events occurring after the end of the year are set out in note 29 to the financial Tarl Investment Holdings RF 1 statements on page 173 Proprietary Limited 47,275,613 3.37 Coronation Asset Management Pty Ltd 42,295,188 3.01 The Strategic Report on pages 2-71 gives a fair review of the business and an Epoch Two Investment Holdings RF indication of likely future developments and fulfils the requirements set out in 1 Proprietary Limited 42,166,686 3.01 section 414C of the Companies Act 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings RF Proprietary Limited Epoch 2 and Tarl Investment Holdings Details of the Groups governance arrangements and its compliance with RF Proprietary Limited Tarl are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code can be found on as part of Anglo Americans share buyback programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their right to pages 72-124 vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
Comprehensive details of the Groups approach to financial risk management Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C are given in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 162-164 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure The Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be found on 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 4, page 141 page32 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information LR None 9.2.
18 Details of employee engagement can be found on pages 34-39.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme None Going concern only involving a director LR 9.4.
3 The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments None borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages 50-53.
4 6 Directors waivers of future None Further details of our policy on financial risk management are set out in note 23 emoluments to the financial statements on pages 162-164.
4 7 Non pro rata allotments for cash Treasury shares have been December 2018 was $2.8 billion 2017: $4.5 billion, representing a gearing level issuer issued pursuant to the exercise of 9% 2017: 13%.
Details of borrowings and facilities are set out in note 21 on of options awarded under page 158 and net debt is set out in note 20 on pages 157-158. shareholder approved schemes The directors have considered the Groups cash flow forecasts for the period 9.8.
4 8 Non pro rata allotments for cash None major subsidiaries tothe end of March 2020.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary Not applicable andprojections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading of another company performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance None itscurrent facilities for the period assessed.
For this reason the Group continues involving a director to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving Not applicable a controlling shareholder Dividends 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See Dividends paragraph on An interim dividend of 49 US cents per ordinary share was paid on 21 September this page 2018.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend of 51 cents per 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See Dividends paragraph on ordinary share be paid on 3 May 2019 to ordinary shareholders on the register at this page the close of business on 15 March 2019, subject to shareholder approval at the 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling Not applicable AGM to be held on 30 April 2019.
This would bring the total dividend in respect of shareholding LR 9.2.
In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in the Sustainable development financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019.
The Sustainability Report 2018 is published online on 4 March 2019.
The Anglo American Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds shares to facilitate the This report focuses on the safety, health, sustainable development and operation of certain of the Groups share option and share incentive schemes environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, its share plans.
The EBT has waived the right to receive dividends on shares held performance with regard to the Companys Code of Conduct, and the on behalf of share plans participants employed by the Group in countries other operational dimensions of its social programmes.
than the UK and South Africa.
Audit information Share capital The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2018, together with information of which the auditor is unaware, that all directors have taken all details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year, is set reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information outin note 24 on page 165. and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
On 15 June 2018, and in accordance with the Preference Share Purchase Employment and other policies Agreement approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 8 May The Groups key operating businesses are empowered to manage within the 2018, the Company purchased and cancelled 50,000 5% cumulative preference context of the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries shares of 1.00 each, being all the 5% cumulative preference shares in issue.
inwhich those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in AngloAmericans Code of Conduct.
Within all the Groups businesses, the safeand effective performance of employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance.
Managers are charged withensuring that the following key principles are upheld: Adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights atall times Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 217 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Adherence to the International Labour Organisations core labour rights, Dividends and distributions including: prohibition of child labour: prohibition of inhumane treatment of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by ordinary employees and any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other resolution, from time to time declare final dividends not exceeding the amount abuse:recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of association recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever andthe promotion of workplace equality: and the elimination of all forms of thefinancial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies unfair discrimination suchpayment.
Continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares, from a person with a 0.25% Provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work related skills interest or more as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served and capabilities witha notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning Adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair consideration The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit and TheArticles may only be changed by a special resolution passed by withregard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable retraining, for any employees Voting in the workforce who become disabled during their employment.
Where Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to possible we will adjust a persons working environment to enable them to stay voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on a inour employment.
show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting shall Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy respectand consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has thattheir careers are not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at shareholder meetings.
The Companys Code of Conduct is supported by an underlying framework of policies and procedures which provide specific guidance to employees on Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups the behaviour required to reinforce the Companys values and uphold the employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not Companys specific commitments to prioritise safety, health and the directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such environment: treat people with care and respect, conduct business with integrity rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
and protect its physical assets and information.
The Code of Conduct and Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need accompanying policies can be accessed via the Companys website.
not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to adhering to the and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
requirements set out in the Sustainable Development in the Supply Chain A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting Policy, which is available on the Companys website.
or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Prevention of Corruption Procedures attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a support our anti-corruption commitment by making it clear that we will neither corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general give, nor accept, bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our meeting or class meeting as a corporate representative.
Where a shareholder dealings with public officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The Policy sets appoints more than one corporate representative in respect of its shareholding, out the standards of conduct required at every level of Anglo American, including but in respect of different shares, those corporate representatives can act our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, in combating corrupt behaviour independently of each other, and validly vote in different ways.
It also sets out the requirements of those with whom we do business Restrictions on voting and those who work on our behalf.
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in The Business Integrity Policy and Prevention of Corruption Procedures respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a have been translated into all the main languages that we use at our operations.
shareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership A dedicated team that operates within a broader risk management and business in relation to shareholders meetings, if any call or other sum presently payable assurance team, oversee implementation of the Code of Conduct and Business by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, Integrity Policy by working with senior managers in our business units and no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after corporate functions and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those for managing corruption risks including extensive face-to-face training of shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Issue of shares Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-corruption controls on Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and an annual basis and in 2018 we had an external review performed on the pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK general effectiveness of our programme.
All stakeholders are able to confidentially meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the report breaches, or potential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy directors and they may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them through our independently managed Speak Up facility.
tosuch persons at such times, and on such terms, as they think proper.
The Group has a social intranet called Eureka!
which helps employees to Shares in uncertificated form connect, communicate and collaborate more effectively.
Any share or class of shares of the Company may be issued or held including any shares of class of shares held on the South African Branch Register or any Political donations other overseas branch register of the members of the Company on such terms, No political donations were made during 2018.
Anglo American has an or in such a way, that: title to it or them is not, or must not be, evidenced by a established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the certificate: or it or they may or must be transferred wholly or partly without a benefit of any political party in any part of the world, including any political certificate.
The directors have power to take such steps as they think fit in partyor political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and relation to: the evidencing of and transfer of title to uncertificated shares Referendums Act 2000. including in connection with the issue of such shares : any records relating to the holding of uncertificated shares: the conversion of certificated shares into Additional information for shareholders uncertificated shares: or the conversion of uncertificated shares into certificated Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current shares.
The Company may by notice to the holder of a share require that share: if Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act it is uncertificated, to be converted into certificated form: and if it is certificated, required as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive in English to be converted into uncertificated form, to enable it to be dealt with in law.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the accordance with the Articles.
Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
218 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT If: the Articles give the directors power to take action, or require other persons Directors totake action, in order to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of shares: and Directors shall not be fewer than 5 nor more than 18 in number.
A director is uncertificated shares are subject to that power, but the power is expressed in notrequired to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The terms which assume the use of a certificate or other written instrument, the Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or directors may take such action as is necessary or expedient to achieve the same minimum number of directors.
results when exercising that power in relation to uncertificated shares.
The Powers of directors directors may take such action as they consider appropriate to achieve the sale, Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special transfer, disposal, forfeiture, re-allotment or surrender of an uncertificated share resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may or otherwise to enforce a lien in respect of it.
This may include converting such exercise all the powers of the Company.
Unless the directors resolve otherwise, shares which The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to amember holds in uncertificated form must be treated as separate holdings mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to from any shares which that member holds in certificated form.
A class of shares issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, must not be treated as two classes simply because some shares of that class are for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
held in certificated form and others are held in uncertificated form.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no dividend Deadlines for exercising voting rights shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in TheArticles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than such currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may deduct from 48hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable adjournedmeeting.
by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on Variation of rights which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than threequarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction Appointment and replacement of directors of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting ofthe The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, at least one-third in does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in office shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall retire from shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for pari passu with them.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject Transfer of shares to annual re-election.
All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by transfer Stock Exchange Listings inwriting in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be the primary listing, the JSE Limited, the SIX Swiss Exchange, the Botswana signedby, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid Stock Exchange and the Namibian Stock Exchange.
shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Significant agreements: change of control register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares registered on the main register At 31 December 2018, Anglo American had committed bilateral and syndicated ofmembers that are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the borrowing facilities totalling $7.5 billion with a number of relationship banks CREST system.
All Transfers of uncertified shares registered on the branch which contain change of control clauses.
$5.4 billion of the Groups bond register of members in South Africa may be effected via the Transfer Secretary.
issues also contain change of control provisions.
In aggregate, this financing The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to is considered significant to the Group and in the event of a takeover change shares in certificated form unless it: of control of the Company, these contracts may be cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration.
a is in respect of only one class of share In the ordinary course of its business the Groups subsidiaries enter into a b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by number of other commercial agreements, some of which would alter or therelevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these are mayreasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the considered by the Group to be significant to the Group as a whole.
transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
Purchases of own shares The directors may decline to register any transfer of shares in certificated form At the AGM held on 8 May 2018, authority was given for the Company to unless: the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: the 86 purchase, in the market, up to 201.6 million ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents instrument of transfer is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Office each.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under this authority accompanied by the relevant share certificate s or such other evidence as the during 2018.
This authority will expire at the 2019 AGM and, in accordance with directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the usual practice, a resolution to renew it for another year will be proposed.
transfer or, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on the transferors behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and it is fully paid.
The Indemnities directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has made fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors during the year, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Copies of these If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send the indemnities are open for inspection at the Companys registered office.
refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the date on whichthe letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
By order of the Board Richard Price A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other Group General Counsel and Company Secretary shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
20 February 2019 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 219
