STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION INNOVATION We are innovative in how we use technologies and digitalisation to deliver products from our mines to our customers sustainably and in how we engage our full breadth of stakeholders.
We are creating a new value proposition for a mining company.
Predictive maintenance technology, which forms part of our FutureSmart Mining programme, is deployed at Barro Alto, where two electric furnaces are monitored by data platforms for performance levels and to detect maintenance needs.
Commissioned in 2011, Barro Alto is a nickel-producing mine and processing plant in Gois, Brazil.
At Kumbas Kolomela iron ore mine in South Africa, a remotely-controlled drill rigs progress is Our Nickel business unit produces around 43,000 tonnes of ferronickel annually.
monitored by drill operators Gerald van der Westhuizen left and Lesley Hael.
24 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report THE INTELLIGENT MINE USING DATA TO UNLOCK SUSTAINABLE VALUE FutureSmart Mining is focused on delivering By building a comprehensive data platform that monitors step-change innovation in technology and 38 major elements of the Barro Alto operation, we are sustainability enabling safer, more efficient, increasing our knowledge of the performance of the preciseand sustainable mining with a smaller physical equipment and we are using data to accurately forecast footprint.
The technologies that we are developing failures before they happen.
Soon, we will be able to anddeploying are focused on the following four areas: dynamically manage maintenance intervals only replacing parts when required, thereby ensuring greater operational The Concentrated Mine.
One of minings greatest uptime and product throughput.
The implementation is challenges is to maximise output the ratio of metal to ore expected to improve furnace reliability, as well as realise while minimising the environmental footprint, as well as cost savings for the Nickel business.
Concentrate the Mine integrates three enabling technologies advanced The learnings from Barro Alto are also being applied to fragmentation, bulk sorting and coarse particle recovery fixed-plant assets in other operations.
This nascent project to precisely target the metal and mineral, with less is on track to deliver considerable value from just one data waste, water and energy.
With more than 70% of our Data analytics augments the intelligence in our people by operations located in water-stressed areas, water helping them make better, confident data-driven decisions.
As we work towards Remote monitoring of assets takes people away from developingwaterless mines in water-scarce regions, physical equipment and helps avoid high-energy failures, weare focused on innovative approaches to the which leads to a safer working environment.
Reducing separationand transportation of ore and waste, unplanned equipment failures can also bring significant evaporation measurement, dry-tailings disposal and environmental benefits owing to the reduced likelihood of waterless processing.
We plan to extend the reach of data analytics to all aspects of our value chain and extend operational decision The Modern Mine.
As mineral resources become ever support to the mining and processing phases of our assets.
more difficult to access at depth, we are exploring technologies to transform hard-rock mining.
Automated and continuous rock-cutting vehicles safely extract the targeted ore deep underground without the need for HIGHLIGHTS explosive blasting.
Such innovations make it possible to mine lower grade ores and complex mineralogy, creating a safer environment and lower operating costs, while enhancing the value of the mineral resource.
$3-4 billion by 2022 The Intelligent Mine.
Our vision is to create a truly Targeted annual Group EBITDA run-rate smart, connected mine, transforming vast quantities of improvement, relative to 2017.
Our data analytics data into predictive intelligence the outcome being a programme will contribute to achieving this target.
fully integrated, systematised and ultimately self-learning operation that offers entirely new levels of stability and predictability.
As we develop the Intelligent Mine, we are creating a PILLARS OF VALUE digital platform to integrate data from a broad spectrum ofsources and apply advanced analytics to find new Environment patterns and trends: turn data into insight about the Socio-political probability of future events: and to predict and shape operational outcomes through data-driven decision making.
Financial This platform has the potential to deliver significant value across our value chain by applying the power of artificial For our KPIs intelligence AI to mineral discovery and geosciences, See pages 48-49 mining and processing operations, and in how we market our products to our customers.
MATERIAL MATTERS DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION For example, we are developing predictive models so that Environmental impacts and climate change we can make better informed operational decisions.
These models, built by data scientists and often powered by AI Operational and cost performance and machine learning, contain advanced algorithms that Meeting our commitments to business leverage the power of data to generate predictions.
At stakeholders and society theoperational level, we are using customised learning Political and regulatory algorithms across a range of different applications.
In one such instance, we monitor equipment health at a number of our operating sites, with the aim of improving operational performance through predictive maintenance.
Barro Alto, our nickel mine and processing plant located in Brazil, is a case in point.
Barro Alto has two rotary kilns and two electric furnaces that smelt nickel ore, and we are focusing our predictive maintenance efforts on key pieces of high-power equipment.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 25 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION Across every aspect of our business, we are consumption of water and energy.
Bulk sorting increases committedto thinking and behaving differently to mineral output and upgrades ores, as well as simplifying the ensure we continue to improve how we operate, for the mining process.
Our shock break technology uses less than benefit of all, including a safe and healthy workplace: 50% of current energy requirements, while also improving a commitment to environmentally responsible mining recovery rates.
Coarse particle flotation is raising and co-operative social development: and a business throughput, reducing the water required for processing and delivering industry-leading margins and returns.
In 2019, we will further develop our dry-disposal technologies, with a view to It is this mindset that drives us towards entirely new levels recovering more than 80% of the water we use.
ofperformance across all our critical business outcomes.
Our first target is to deliver industry best practice, or We are exploring the use of a number of technologies that benchmark performance.
To be the best of the best, and have the potential to transform the way we develop then to create new benchmarks beyond what is currently underground mines.
Using a combination of continuous thought to be possible, is what we call P101 or Full hard rock cutting, shock break and hydrohoist solutions, we Potential Plus.
are seeking to remove the need for new shafts, replacing them with a pipe instead.
Our hydrohoist technology Then there is the innovation that delivers step-change involves new methods for moving large volumes of ore from improvements across our entire value chain.
underground without the need for traditional hoist systems.
This new mining solution provides opportunities to FUTURESMART MINING significantly lower ongoing operating and capital costs and unlock previously uneconomic underground mining areas.
It is this step-change innovation that we call FutureSmartMining our innovation-led pathway to The next big step change along the journey towards sustainable mining.
reaching our full potential is digitalising our mines.
Changing the way we instrument our operations and capture and use FutureSmart Mining is our blueprint for the future of data will deliver the game-changing measurement our business.
A future in which broad innovative thinking, component of FutureSmart Mining.
enabling technologies, and collaborative partnerships will shape an industry that is safer, more sustainable and Sustainable mining efficient, and better harmonised with the needs of our AngloAmerican has a longstanding reputation as a leader host communities and society as a whole.
In 2018, we launched an innovative and ambitious approach to sustainability, integral to our These are the innovations that will transform the nature of FutureSmart Mining programme.
mining how we mine, process, move and market our products and how our stakeholders experience our We developed a Sustainable Mining Plan through extensive business.
It is about our physical and societal footprint.
internal and external engagement and analysis ofcritical opportunities and risks, including the UNs Sustainable In short, we envisage a much reduced environmental Development Goals SDGs.
footprint from a number of precision mining technologies and the smart use of data analytics, while our collaborative We are going beyond compliance with mining law or approach to regional economic development is at the heart regulatory requirements.
We aim to have a more strategic of how we plan to create truly sustainable communities that and holistic impact on the ground, comprising mutually will thrive long after the life of the mine.
This is how we are reinforcing elements that will positively transform how re-imagining mining to improve peoples lives.
ourstakeholders experience our business, both globally andlocally.
Through our innovative and collaborative approach, we are becoming a more sustainable business in every sense Our approach is built around three global creating safe, healthy and productive workplaces, being part : of thriving communities and making a broader contribution Trusted corporate leader to the welfare of society.
This is how we build trust and secure our long term social licence to operate, for the Thriving communities benefit of all our stakeholders and to deliver sustainable Healthy environment.
At the core of our plans to bring long term and Step changes through technology sustainable development opportunities to the regions FutureSmart Mining seeks to ensure that, through around our operations is what we call Collaborative technical expertise and innovation, we deliver net-positive Regional Development.
This innovative approach starts by benefits to the environment while continuing to supply identifying socio-economic development opportunities societys growing demand for metals and minerals.
with the greatest potential in a region through spatial We continue to make good progress, unlocking ever-greater planning and analysis.
potential, as we implement our broad and progressive Collaborative Regional Development creates a catalyst for programme of technology and digital solutions.
partnerships with a broad range of stakeholders, including As we adopt an integrated and agile approach to innovation, community representatives: faith groups: businesses and many of our initial ideas are now proven concepts that are entrepreneurs: government: academics: and NGOs.
being rolled out at pace, allowing us to operate with greater By working through partnerships, we are delivering on precision, driving value and delivering reductions in energy our commitment to building foundations for long term, and water consumption intensity.
sustainable development in our host regions, far beyond We have a strong technology innovation pipeline.
Combining the life of the mine.
bulk sorting, shock break and coarse particle recovery will For more detail on our approach to sustainable mining enable greater operational efficiency and reduce our Please refer to our Sustainability Report 2018 26 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report OPERATING AND MARKETING EXCELLENCE INCREASING LUMP IRON ORE PRODUCTION AT SISHEN Logically, therefore, lump products can command a significant price premium over fines in the iron ore markets.
Kumbas Sishen iron ore mine, located in South Africas Northern Cape, produces both high quality lump and fine iron ore for the export market: its dense media separation DMS plant produces an average lump:fine ratio of around 70%.
As the market for high quality lump expanded through 2017 and 2018, and the price premium increased to as much as $27 tonne above the price for fines averaging $21 tonne in 2018 a 30% increase over the prior year, Sishen assessed all aspects of the DMS plant to find ways to capitalise on the lump-ore premium and thereby generate more revenue for every run-of-mine tonne processed through the plant.
By optimising the crushing and screening circuit at the At Kumbas Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, quality controller Patrick Steenkamp left and operator LR Sanderson monitor operations from the DMS, Sishen was able to improve its lump:fine ratio to Jig plant control room.
73.3% in 2018, generating millions of dollars of additional value for no additional cost.
Most iron ore is either sold as fines, which is any iron ore below six millimetres in size and with an iron Fe The Kumba team worked closely with our Marketing content of 56%-66%, or as a lump product, which is team to ensure the new lump product was suitable for 6-30 millimetres in size and has an Fe content of customers blast furnaces.
This is an example of how around 63%-67%.
weare working together towards attaining, and then exceeding, the industry best practice performance Lump is considered a higher quality product and is often benchmark across all our equipment and processes.
preferred to fines for several reasons, including: its ability Thisprocess is ongoing and further improvements are to be directly fed into a blast furnace for steelmaking: its planned for 2019 to deliver even more value from our very high physical strength: and that many modern steel existing assets.
mills require high Fe content ores to ensure the efficient and cleaner operation of their blast furnaces.
DELIVERING STABLE OPERATING FOUNDATIONS The Operating Model follows a structured implementation plan, starting at the project set-up phase and ending with the Our unique Operating Model is designed to support stabilisation and sustaining phases.
The focus on stable and predictable delivery provides a foundation for The Operating Model is being used to support realisation continuous and sustainable operating improvement.
This of the Groups strategic objectives, including P101 approach has resulted in step-change advances in safety operating our key assets and equipment at industry best and productivity, and lower costs, and is being embedded practice and beyond.
Moving our operations to P101levels throughout the business.
of performance will be a major factor in embedding a mindset of constant improvement, as well as helping us The Operating Model is a peopleand systems-intensive to reach the cost and volume improvement targets we framework that is designed to deliver and embed change.
It provides our people with a common language and a structured way of working, bringing clarity to the work we Cost and productivity improvements do and ensuring that roles and accountabilities are clearly We have continued to improve the performance of our defined across the operations.
assets through increased efficiency and productivity, including the implementation of our Operating Model The framework is built around three key components: and, as a result, have delivered $0.4 billion ofcost and Operational planning ensures that we set targets volume improvements in 2018. with an understood confidence level, and develop Across the Group, production increased by 6% on a appropriate operating strategies and tactics to meet copper equivalent basis, excluding the impact of the business expectations stoppage at Minas-Rio, primarily driven by continued Work management focuses on driving the right strongperformances at Copper, Metallurgical Coal and behaviours and routines for the approval, planning, DeBeers, aswell as improved production at our PGMs scheduling, resourcing and execution of work business.
This was partlyoffset by curtailed production programmes atKumbaIron Ore as a result of third party rail constraints.
Feedback ensures that the measures we use are well-defined andcontrolled and that appropriate improvement processes are applied.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION Copper production increased by 15% to 668,300 tonnes 2017: 579,300 tonnes, with increases at all operations.
DELIVERING VALUE Collahuasi delivered record copper in concentrate THROUGH MARKETING production, benefiting from a strong plant performance following the completion of planned plant improvement Our Marketing business continues to create initiatives and planned higher ore grades.
At LosBronces, commercial value across our entire value chain, production increased by 20%, owing to strong mine and from mine to market.
plant performance, as well as planned higher oregrades.
A key element of Marketings successful strategy is to Metallurgical coal production increased by 11% to 21.8 Mt operate in all the worlds major markets and sourcing 2017: 19.7 Mt, driven by a record performance from regions and to use physical and financial trading and Moranbah and production growth at Grosvenor.
third party products to fully leverage our marketing platform and broaden our customer offering.
This DeBeers rough diamond production increased by 6% to yields many benefits, including delivering additional 35.3 million carats 2017: 33.5 million carats.
Production value to Anglo American, and providing greater increases at Orapa and the contribution from the ramp-up customer-facing exposure and market insight by of Gahcho Ku more than offset the effect of the temporary being more connected across the wider market.
suspension of production at Venetia following a fatal incident and the placing of Voorspoed mine onto care This approach is highlighted by the activities of two and maintenance.
of our commodity marketing teams: Thermal Coal and Base Metals.
At our PGMs business, platinum production increased by 4% to 2,484,700 ounces 2017: 2,397,400 ounces In 2018, the Thermal Coal trading team exceeded and palladium by 3% to 1,610,800 ounces itstargeted volumes of third party coal, sourced 2017: 1,557,400 ounces, reflecting continued strong fromAustralia, South Africa, Indonesia, Colombia performance at Mogalakwena and ongoing operational andthe USA.
This significantly broadens our improvements at Amandelbult.
Refined platinum participation in the global market with traded third production decreased by 4% to 2,402,400 ounces party volumes now representing a large portion of our 2017: 2,511,900 ounces and refined palladium by export sales activities.
Thetrusted Anglo American 10% to 1,501,800 ounces 2017: 1,668,500 ounces brand is a key asset in developing new relationships as scheduled smelter maintenance delayed refined and growing our Marketing business.
In Copper, we sold only our own-produced metal until At Kumba, iron ore output decreased by 4% to 43.1 Mt 2015.
In recent years, we have focused on developing 2017: 45.0 Mt due to Transnets rail performance deeper customer relationships and expanding our constraints throughout 2018.
In response, Kumba took the customer base.
Today, third party and traded metal strategic decision to improve product quality to maximise represents around 30% of Marketings copper sales the value of those tonnes railed to the port, which in turn volumes.
We can better manage our customers reduced total production.
specific copper concentrate requirements as our networks expand.
We provide bespoke logistics and At Thermal Coal South Africa, total export production freight solutions and price-risk management for decreased by 1% to 18.4 Mt 2017: 18.6 Mt, as operations customers using the derivatives market, and offer continued to transition between mining areas.
long term origination solutions to suppliers.
Nickel production decreased by 3% to 42,300 tonnes By leveraging our systems and processes for both 2017: 43,800 tonnes owing to a 40-day planned our own products and those of third parties, we maintenance stoppage at Barro Alto.
Manganese ore can play a broader role in the full value chain.
This production increased by 3% to 3.6 Mt 2017: 3.5 Mt, results in higher margins for Anglo Americans reflecting improved concentrator availability and favourable products, supporting both EBITDA growth and better weather conditions at the Australian operations.
Group copper equivalent unit costs were in line with the prior year in both local currency and US dollar terms as the effect of cost and productivity initiatives offset the impact of inflation across the Group.
A 9% decrease in unit costs at Copper, owing to increased production and continued cost savings across all the operations, was offset by Metallurgical Coal, where increased costs were incurred to establish newmining areas to achieve further productivity improvements, and at Kumba following lower production and higher strip ratios.
While we have delivered a material operational turnaround in recent years, we believe there is still significant value to be delivered from the continued implementation of our Operating Model, P101, and the Head of financial trading, Iron Ore, Andrew Glass, left and senior trader, Copper, Gavin Li, consulting data screens at the Singapore marketing office.
benefits from our technology and data initiatives, as well as the delivery of growth projects.
By 2022, we expect to deliver an additional $3-4 billion annual underlying EBITDA run-rate improvement, relative to 2017.
28 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE innovation initiatives are in progress to improve safety across the Group, including advanced driver-assistance Our Marketing model maximises value from our resources systems, smart personal protective equipment, energy and value chain positions.
We do this by seeking to fully isolation and collision-avoidance solutions.
understand and address our customers specific needs andthrough optimising our capabilities in the financial and Inclusive procurement physical markets to drive the right commercial decisions With most of our operations located in the developing world, across the value chain from mine to market.
an inclusive approach to procurement is critical to deliver benefits that make a real, positive difference to our host In 2018, our centralised Marketing business, now in its fifth communities and countries where we operate.
year, continued to make good progress against its strategy.
Key achievements included: Our local and inclusive procurement approach provides guidance for operations in designing and implementing Sales and marketing excellence during the year, we procurement initiatives aimed at integrating and sold all of our own-production volumes, while proactively  with economically marginalised managing a number of supply challenges, including supplier groups.
findingnew markets for different grades of material.
Closecustomer relationships are central to our success, Our inclusive procurement strategies support countryasis an ongoing focus on market insight and analytics.
specific imperatives such as First Nation citizens Canada, promotion of Aboriginal procurement Australia and black Expanding our customer offering through trading economic empowerment South Africa.
These are andthird party sourcing we continued to broaden our complemented by our supplier development approach, customer proposition through securing access to a which actively targets and provides development support to greaterrange of financial and third party physical markets.
suppliers based in our host communities.
Trading capabilities across several commodities have been extended in a measured and controlled way.
In 2018, our operations spent approximately $10.2 billion 2017:$9.0 billion with suppliers.
Our inclusive procurement During 2018, we strengthened our presence in China by expenditure was $2.8 billion 2017:$2.1 billion, representing setting up a wholly foreign-owned entity, along with the 27% of total supplier expenditure 2017: 23%.
The amount establishment of a new office in Shanghai to service China.
spent with host community-based suppliers in 2018 was Value chain optimisation integrated sales and approximately $2.1 billion.
operations planning evolved further during 2018, Responsible sourcing particularly across the bulk commodities, as the adoption Anglo Americans Responsible Sourcing Standard for of new forms of technology drove ongoing operational Suppliers articulates performance requirements for current improvement.
Our integrated shipping desk continues to and prospective suppliers across the Group.
Our standard provide advantageous freight rates and service levels for specifies expectations from suppliers to protect safety, our own cargo, as well as for a growing volume of third health and the environment: respect labour and human party product.
rights: increase social accountability: and conduct business Market development good progress is being made fairly and with integrity.
withmarket development and new market investment Through supplier self-assessments, third party audits and activities and, in particular, the work to support the bespoke supplier capacity-building programmes, we commercialisation of fuel cell electric vehicles and related support suppliers to flag potential risks and improve their hydrogen technology.
In July, the Platinum Group Metals management controls.
Where required, corrective actions PGMs Investment Programme was spun out to are agreed and monitored.
independent management with the formation of the AP Ventures fund.
Having enjoyed success and a strong Value delivery through supplier partnerships track record while being managed by Marketing, we Supply Chain continues to focus on delivering value for our separated the fund in order to attract additional outside operations through global and regional framework investment and allow AP Ventures to increase the scale agreements, supplier enabled innovation and the of its activities to support the growth of PGM technologies optimisation of working capital.
Through our strategic and PGM demand.
supplier partnerships, we jointly identify opportunities and deliver on our innovation roadmaps.
In collaboration with the Operationally, Marketing made a significant reduction in Groups Technical and Sustainability teams, several cash-collection cycle times through targeted process innovation and modernisation initiatives are being improvement in the sales cycle.
Our governance, risk implemented in safety, mining, processing and sustainability.
management and control processes continue to strongly Focus areas have included more efficient and sustainable underpin everything we do.
sourcing and utilisation of energy as well as various technology development initiatives.
SUPPLY CHAIN Supply chain digitalisation During 2018, Supply Chain continued its three-year We are digitalising our source-to-pay process with an journey to Innovate Supply, Responsibly through step electronic procurement solution which standardises the way changes in safety, people, sustainability, value delivery, we transact with our suppliers.
We aim to simplify the user supplier partnerships and digitalisation.
experience by enabling intuitive interfaces as part of a journey to a touchless, request to pay purchasing process.
Safety performance Supply Chains primary focus is on more robust safetybased supplier selection criteria, improved supplier safety performance management and leveraging supplier enabled innovation to strengthen critical controls.
Several supplierAnglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND CLIMATE CHANGE water balance, providing a more accurate and detailed understanding of water withdrawal, discharge, and use, and Many of the environmental impacts of mining are borne by which underpins the effective assessment and evaluation of communities around our mining operations, while others site-specific water risks.
At year end, 60% of our sites had have to be considered in the context of the contribution to completed or restated their water balance.
global challenges such as climate change.
Anglo Americans 3 Sustainable Mining Plan articulates our commitment to Total water withdrawals amounted to 227.5 million m 3 demonstrating leadership in environmental stewardship.
2017:306.3 million m. Current data shows that AngloAmerican is making steady progress towards our By 2030, we aim to: 2020 water targets of reducing absolute freshwater Reduce greenhouse gas GHG emissions by 30% abstraction by 20% as compared to the projected business and improve energy efficiency by 30% against a as usual BAU consumption, recycling and or re-using 2016 baseline water for 75% of our global water requirements and recording no Level 3 or above incidents in the year.
Achieve a 50% net reduction in freshwater abstraction in water-scarce regions Tailings storage facilities Anglo American is implementing leading practices in all Deliver net-positive impact on biodiversity wherever aspects of tailings and dam management.
we place mineral residue into mined-out areas or pits, such For more detail on our approach and performance as at our coal facilities in Australia.
Over the past four years, related to our material sustainability matters See www.
com sustainability we have rolled out a new mineral residue facilities technical standard for all tailings dams and water-retaining dams.
We Managing our environmental impacts have completed self-assessments against the standard and The Anglo American Safety, Health and Environment SHE started formal reporting against performance requirements.
Way details our internal policy requirements and its roll-out and implementation got under way during 2018.
To date, The new standard raises the bar in the level of care of our 21 operations have developed implementation plans to mineral residue facilities, exceeding legislated requirements comply with the SHE Way by the end of 2020.
There is in most regions, as we seek to move beyond compliance and ongoing tracking and monitoring of progress against these towards leading practice.
Critical controls at facilities are defined plans.
audited internally by our technical specialists, and each of the businesses is addressing identified priority issues.
We have made progress in integrating the management of environmental risk into our operational risk management Climate change ORM process and Operating Model.
ORM implementation, For more than a decade, Anglo American has contributed including for our most serious environmental risks, forms to the global effort to reduce emissions, while continuing part of performance-based remuneration for senior to provide many of the metals and minerals that modern executives, along with a target to reduce significant life requires.
Governance and management approach Environmental incidents In implementing Anglo Americans approach to Anglo American reports five levels of environmental incident sustainability, we are working towards our carbon and severity.
Level 3-5 incidents ranging from moderate to high energy targets for 2030 and, ultimately, our vision of impact are featured in the chief executives report to the operating a carbon-neutral mine.
The Boards Sustainability Board and are addressed each quarter by the Boards Committee continues to monitor progress and our Sustainability Committee.
commitment to other multi-stakeholder initiatives, such as the Aiming for A coalition.
In 2018, we recorded one Level 4 high impact 2017: nil and five Level 3 moderate impact 2017: two Respecting societys increasing expectations for greater environmental incidents.
The Level 4 incident, and one transparency around climate change, we support the Level3 incident, related to two separate pipeline spills that recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards Task occurred at the Minas-Rio iron ore operation, in Brazil, in Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD, March 2018. including the disclosure of our progress to date, as well as the development of quantitative scenario analysis, to be In response to the pipeline-spill incidents, we took swift and presented at a future date.
effective action to assess the integrity of the entire pipeline, as well as reviewing the maintenance strategy, the controls See TCFD table on page 31 for detailed disclosure.
in place and the use of technology to predict pipeline failures.
Anglo Americans climate change policy articulates our The incidents at Minas-Rio resulted in fines being issued commitment to five principles: amounting to $50 million, some of which are being challenged, and the loss of 280 production days.
Building internal agility and ensuring resilience to climate change Water For Anglo American, water shortage is a principal Driving energy and carbon savings throughout risk as 70% of our sites lie in water-scarce areas.
Our our business catchment-based approach to water management provides Understanding and responding to the carbon a solid foundation as we work towards meeting our life-cycle risks and opportunities of our products ambitious sustainability targets, while our ultimate vision is to develop the waterless mine in water-scarce regions: that Developing and implementing collaborative solutions is, a mine that uses no external fresh water beyond ramp-up.
with our stakeholders Anglo Americans Water Management Standard requires all Contributing our skills and knowledge to the operations to complete a detailed self-assessment and gap development of responsible public policy.
analysis of progress against the standard, the results of A central aspect of our approach is our energy and carbon which are included in each business unit CEOs scorecard.
management ECO MAN programme, which we have 2 In addition, each site is required to complete a site-wide been implementing across the Group since 2011.
30 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DISCLOSURES RELATED TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TCFD Anglo Americans response to the risks posed by climate change is multi-disciplinary and is covered throughout our reporting suite from theIntegrated Annual Report to our climate-change specific supplement published in 2016.
The table below offers guidance on where to find information relating to each of the TCFDs recommendations.
GOVERNANCE Disclose the organisations governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
Recommended disclosures References a Describe the Boards oversight of climate-related risks Climate change: Our plans, policies and progress, pages 6-7. andopportunities.
Climate change, Integrated Annual Report 2018, pages 83 and 90. b Describe managements role in assessing and managing Climate change: Our plans, policies and progress, page 7. climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our Material Matters, Integrated Annual Report 2018, page 17.
STRATEGY Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisations businesses, strategy, and financial planning, where such information is material.
Recommended disclosures References a Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation CDP Climate Response 2018, question CC2 Risks and opportunities.
has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
b Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on Sustainability Report 2018, pages 49-53. the organisations businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
c Describe the resilience of the organisations strategy, taking into We have conducted a qualitative scenario analysis included in: consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2C Climate change: Our plans, policies and progress pages 12-15. orlower scenario.
We are undertaking a quantitative scenario analysis.
RISK MANAGEMENT Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
Recommended disclosures References a Describe the organisations processes for identifying and Climate change: Our plans, policies and progress, pages 4 and 7. assessing climate-related risks.
CDP Climate Response 2018, question CC2.2b, processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
b Describe the organisations processes for managing CDP Climate Response 2018, questions CC2.1, CC2.2, CC2.5 and CC2.6.
c Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing Climate change: Our plans, policies and progress page 7. climate-related risks are integrated into the organisations overall CDP Climate Response 2018, questions CC2.1, CC2.2, CC2.5 and CC2.6.
METRICS AND TARGETS Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
Recommended disclosures References a Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess CDP Climate Response 2018, questions CC2.2b, CC2.3a and CC11.3a.
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
b Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3, Sustainability Report 2018, page 50 and data table page 86. greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and the related risks.
Integrated Annual Report 2018, pages 32 and 216. c Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climateIntegrated Annual Report 2018, pages 32 and 216. related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION The Anglo American chief executive and business unit Our energy-efficiency target for 2030 is a 30% reduction CEOs scorecards include performance on energy and inour absolute energy intensity against our 2016 carbon and since 2017, our 2020 energy and carbon targets performance, while our long term GHG-emissions have been included within the executive Long Term target is a net 30% reduction in emissions.
Targets and performance MEETING OUR COMMITMENTS TO In 2018, our operations were responsible for 16.0 million GOVERNMENT AND SOCIETY tonnes of COequivalent emissions Mt CO e 2 2 We are committed to making a positive contribution to the 2017:18.0Mt CO e. This decrease resulted from higher 2 communities in which we operate, through living our values, seam gas drainage at our Metallurgical Coal operations, respecting human rights and demonstrating accountability.
business improvement projects and a marginally lower carbon intensity of the Eskom grid.
Our first duty is to avoid or minimise any harm that our operations may cause.
We do this by respecting human Our GHG emission-reduction target for 2020 is 22% rights, applying robust social performance standards against projected emissions in a BAU scenario.
GHG and maintaining constructive relationships with local emission savings in 2018 amounted to 6.1 Mt CO e a 2 stakeholders.
This provides the foundation for forging 25% reduction relative to the BAU figure, representing collaborative regional development, which is at the heart a 4% decrease compared to 2017. of our innovative approach to sustainability.
The Groups total energy consumption decreased for a third Social performance consecutive year to 85 million GJ 2017: 97 million GJ.
Management approach Divestments, stalled production at Minas-Rio owing to the Anglo Americans approach to social performance is pipeline incidents, and ongoing productivity and energyinformed by our values and Code of Conduct, while our efficiency projects were the primary cause for the decrease.
Social Way defines our governing framework for social The energy-efficiency projects we have implemented have performance.
a typical payback time of three years.
The Social Way provides clear requirements for all Our ECO MAN energy-reduction target for 2020 is 8% 2  sites to ensure that policies and against BAU.
In 2018, approximately 486 energy-efficiency systems are in place to engage with communities, to avoid, and business-improvement projects saved 6.7 million GJ in prevent and mitigate adverse social impacts, and to optimise energy consumption, relative to the projected consumption development opportunities.
GEMFAIR GemFair uses dedicated technology to record ASM production at mine sites that meet operating standards agreed with industry stakeholders, with the aim of purchasing rough diamonds for a fair price from accredited sites.
By providing accredited miners with the opportunity to sell to DeBeers, GemFair has the potential to help transform the sector by providing a new and secure route to market, and to open up a new source of supply for DeBeers.
GemFair is piloting with the Diamond Development Initiative DDI, an NGO that is leading efforts to formalise Africas diamond ASM sector.
Miners wishing to participate in the pilot must be vetted by the DDI and agree to comply with its standards, and those of the GemFair business model.
In Sierra Leone, brothers Tamba E Nyandemoh and Tamba B Nyandemoh using the GemFair dedicated tablet and toolkit.
GemFairs approach combines a dedicated app, tablet and diamond toolkit that enables ASM production to be The artisanal and small-scale mining ASM sector tracked from the mine site, while alsoaddressing ASMs makes an important contribution to the global key challenges and risks.
diamond industry and is a critical income source By using technology to provide artisanal and small-scale for poverty-affected communities in manyparts miners access to the global market andoffering fair of Africa.
However, as some parts ofthe sector are prices, GemFair hopes to improveminers livelihoods informal and unregulated, its participants often and foster the sectors development as a reliable lack access to established international markets diamond supply source.
and formal sales channels, making it difficult for them to sell their diamonds for a fair price.
If proven successful, GemFairs technology will be integrated with DeBeers Tracr diamond-industry To help enhance prospects and improve livelihoods blockchain, thereby providing an added layer of ofthose working in the sector, DeBeers is piloting a assurance that the ASM production registered on ground-breaking programme, called GemFair, that the platform has been responsibly sourced.
aims to create a secure and transparent route to market for ethically sourced ASM diamonds.
32 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report The Social Way is supported by our industry-leading We are fully committed to an ethical value chain that Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT, which respects human rights and is free of slavery.
In accordance provides detailed guidance on how to manage social with the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015, we publish an impacts and deliver socio-economic development.
annual Group statement to demonstrate our approach to Engagement with local stakeholders is central to preventing modern slavery and human trafficking in our theprocess.
For more information, visit Operations complete a SEAT assessment every three www.
Our social performance strategy draws on SEAT The number of complaints that related to human rights assessments and aims to bridge potential gaps between issues in 2018 accounted for approximately 2% of the ourbusiness objectives, life-of-asset planning and social totalnumber of complaints 42 in total.
Socio-economic development During 2018, we reviewed and revised our Social Way, To be productive, safe, responsible and sustainable, our SEATand related policies, taking into consideration mines must operate alongside thriving communities.
changes in our business and the external environment, Aligned with our site-level socio-economic development ourFutureSmart Mining pathway to sustainable mining, activities, we are driving an innovative regional partnership evolving stakeholder expectations and international best approach to identifying and realising opportunities to deliver practice.
The updated polices and guidance will be impact at scale.
Developing thriving communities is one of three pillars of our Governance and performance sustainability approach.
Our targets include creating three Every year, we assess site compliance with the Social Way indirect jobs for every direct job at regional level by 2025, requirements.
In 2018, we externally assured these and five indirect jobs for every direct job by 2030. assessments to gain independent verification as to whether sites are compliant with each requirement.
More in-depth Social investment reviews of priority issues are undertaken on a rotational Our corporate social investment CSI expenditure basis as part of the operational risk-assurance process.
predominantly supports vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders who are unable to participate in our value The 2018 assessment results reflect steady improvement chains.
In making investments, we strive to optimise our across almost all Social Way requirements.
No nonimpact through partnerships and co-funding.
In 2018, compliance impacted our stakeholders and plansare in Anglo Americans CSI expenditure in host communities, place to remedy those non-compliances recorded.
including from the Anglo American Chairmans Fund, the Eachoperation implements an improvement plan to meet Anglo American Group Foundation and our enterprise requirements thatare not met in full.
The chief executives development programmes, totalled $82 million quarterly performance scorecard includes progress in 2017:$88million.
This figure represents 2% of underlying achieving Group-wide compliance with the Social Way.
earnings before interest and taxes EBIT, lessunderlying Human rights EBIT of associates and joint ventures.
The respect of human rights is a critical foundation of our sustainability approach.
Global CSI expenditure by type Management approach Our approach to human rights is aligned with the UN $ 000 % Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and we Community 41,314 50 remain committed to implementing the UN Global Compact development Principles.
We integrate the UN Guiding Principles on Education and training 19,257 24 Business and Human Rights across our Code of Conduct Water and sanitation 5,964 7 and embed them in our corporate standards.
Health and welfare 5,810 7 Our Human Rights Policy and framework guide our Sports, art, culture 3,715 5 approach to identifying and addressing our salient human and heritage rights risks, which are integrated into the Social Way and Other 2,511 3 other internal policy documents as relevant.
Our policy Environment 1,481 2 requires operation-level due-diligence processes.
Institutional 1,097 1 capacity development Governance and performance Energy and 530 1 Each operation conducts an annual social risk assessment climate change to identify human rights risks and potentially vulnerable Disaster and 371 0 groups.
Over the past three years, we have conducted emergency relief human rights due-diligence exercises across all our Total 82,050 sites, with assistance from external experts.
Each site hasidentified its key human rights issues in terms of thepotential impact on people or the operation and has developed action plans to address the human rights Global CSI expenditure by region concerns raised.
Common issues identified include $ 000 % perceptions of discrimination associated with employment Africa 50,635 61 and the visibility of procurement opportunities, unfulfilled Americas 29,547 36 commitments and disrespect among contractors for labourrights.
Australia 462 1 United Kingdom 950 1 Rest of world 456 1 Total 82,050 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 33
