STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO The quality and long life of our mineral assets are the foundation of our global 1 business.
With a weighted asset life exceeding 30 years, we actively manage our asset portfolio to improve its overall competitive position.
We focus on securing and operating assets that offer either in isolation or in combination the most attractive long term value-creation potential, as measured by sustainable cash flow and returns.
The use of drone or Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV technology, across a number of our mining activities, is helping to contribute to the successful delivery of our FutureSmart Mining programme.
Drones, or UAVs, can be used for a number of activities, such as supporting safety and hazard management, generating images, measuring production performance and to evaluate mining conditions.
The Salveani camp will house 4,000 workers at Quellaveco.
The full complement of accommodation The team at Quellaveco celebrated Global Safety Day, with more than 4,000 employees and required for workers will be available during the first half of 2019. contractors participating in events on the day.
1 Asset life is weighted based on 2018 copper equivalent production.
Calculated on a straight average, without weighting, the Groups average asset life is 23 years.
See page 211 for definition and calculation of copper equivalent production.
18 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report QUELLAVECO UNLOCKING OUR POTENTIAL IN COPPER Copper is set to continue as one of the most essential Sustainability is at the heart of how we do business, and industrial metals as society addresses the challenges Quellaveco has been designed with this in mind.
Water ofclimate change, energy efficiency and the raising of required for the mining operation will be drawn mainly from living standards for the worlds fast-growing population water unsuitable for human, livestock or agricultural use, of consumers.
The effects of ore reserve depletion while also collecting excess rainfall and sharing it with local across the industry and long delivery times for new communities, ensuring the project delivers a net water mines, however, are likely to result in ongoing benefit to the region.
We aim to make Quellaveco as near constraints on copper supply.
Quellaveco is one of the worlds largest and most attractive Following approval in mid-2018, project execution is on undeveloped copper deposits.
Its approval for development track, benefiting from early work completed during the follows in-depth studies conducted during more than feasibility study stage.
The first major milestone of the 25years in the Group portfolio, giving us the benefit of Asana river diversion was successfully completed in early considerable understanding of this world class asset.
December in line with plan, and the priority for 2019 is to progress earthworks and start concrete work at the plant site.
HIGHLIGHTS 7.5 million 1 Tonnes of copper Enough copper for: 90 million electric vehicles: or Wiring 80 million homes At our Quellaveco project in Peru, a model of the proposed mine and processing facilities is used as part of our dialogue table with representatives from the local $5.0-5.3 billion Moquegua community.
Capital expenditure our share $2.5-2.7 billion Located in the south of Peru, Quellaveco boasts Ore Reserves of 1.3 billion tonnes, containing an estimated 7.5million tonnes of copper at an average grade of 0.57% total copper TCu.
Project execution began in 2022 August 2018 and first production is planned for 2022, First copper production ramping up to full output thefollowing year.
During the first 10 years, production is expected to average 300,000 tonnes of copper equivalent per year with a first-quartile cash cost of 105 c lb.
1.3 billion tonnes This low cost of production means Quellaveco is expected Ore Reserves at 0.57% TCu todeliver an internal rate of return in excess of 15%, an EBITDA margin greater than 50%, and ROCE in excess of 20%.
Combined with a payback period of four years, the project comfortably meets the Groups investment hurdles.
PILLARS OF VALUE There are also significant further expansion opportunities to extend the current 30-year reserve life.
Environment Importantly, our existing partner in Quellaveco, Mitsubishi, Socio-political increased its interest in the project from 18.1% to 40% Financial during the year, further strengthening our partnership and sharing the risks related to project development and For our KPIs capitalexpenditure.
See pages 48-49 Quellaveco has all key licencesand permits in place for execution and has worked hard on its social credentials.
1 Estimates as at MATERIAL MATTERS DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION Following a ground-breaking 18-month dialogue table that 31December 2018. was initiated in 2011 with our host communities and at the Please refer to the Macro-economic environment Anglo American plc national level, weagreed detailed long term commitments Operational and cost performance Ore Reserves and relating to water management, environmental protection Mineral Resources Meeting our commitments to business stakeholders and social investment.
This dialogue table approach is now Report 2018 for a and society widely regarded as an industry benchmark for responsible breakdown of the classification community engagement.
The project will also create Political and regulatory categories.
around9,000 jobs during the construction phase.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 19 STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO AngloAmerican is a leading global mining company.
OUR PRODUCT GROUPS Our portfolio of world class competitive mining Diamonds operations and undeveloped resources spanning DeBeers has a global leadership position in diamonds, diamonds through DeBeers, copper, platinum group producing around a third of the worlds rough diamonds, by metals, iron ore, coal, nickel and manganese value.
Within its portfolio, DeBeers Anglo American: 85% provides the raw materials to meet the growing interest, in partnership with the Government of the Republic consumer-driven demands of the worlds developed of Botswana, has one of the richest diamond mines, by and maturing economies.
value, in the world at Jwaneng and one of the largest The scale and diversity of our portfolio allow us to leverage Diamond Resources, by volume, at Orapa.
our financial resources, technical expertise and supplier DeBeers major diamond mining assets have large, long relationships towards delivery on our potential, life and scalable resources and we are continuing to invest and to the benefit of our customers.
The depth and in our existing operations to extend our mining activities.
breadth of the portfolio create a measured risk profile The Cut-9 expansion of Jwaneng will increase the depth and support strong returns by balancing and optimising of the mine to 800 metres to extend the life of the mine: the concentration of our investments across diverse asset Debmarine Namibia is undergoing a feasibility study for the geographies and end markets.
construction of an additional custom-built diamond mining vessel: and in South Africa, Venetia is being extended 1 BUILDING STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE underground, extending the life ofmine to 2045.
The primary source of competitive advantage in the mining The lack of many significant kimberlite discoveries over industry is to own high quality, high margin, long life assets recent years, combined with the ongoing growth in ofscale, with positions that can be further enhanced if those consumer demand for diamond jewellery in both mature assets deliver products into structurally attractive markets.
and developing markets, points to good prospects for the diamond business.
The addition of the recently acquired In assessing our asset portfolio, we consider: Chidliak diamond resource in Canada, and the continued The stand-alone quality of individual assets, including investment indiamond mining support technologies, will theirrelative cost position and growth potential enhance DeBeers portfolio of high quality and high margin assets and the ability of the business to flex production to Our global competitive position within the individual prevailingdemand.
product groups Through its differentiated rough diamond distribution The additional value potential generated through our model, which comprises term contract Sightholders, dedicated marketing expertise.
Accredited Buyers and Auction Sales customers, DeBeers has a range of insights into its customers demand patterns.
DeBeers seeks to stimulate consumer demand fordiamonds through its Forevermark and DeBeers Jewellers brands and through its leading participation intheDiamond Producers Association.
Asset quality: differentiated portfolio Capital employed by geography Revenue by product 5% 6% 20% 10% 12% 26% 16% 12% 19% 1 24% The current Mining 14% Right expires in 2038.
19% An application to 17% renew the Mining Right will be submitted Diamonds Copper Iron Ore at the appropriate South Africa Botswana and Namibia fide Beers time.
There is a Met coal Nickel and Brazil Australia reasonable Manganese PGMs Thermal coal Chile, Colombia and Peru Other expectation that the renewal will Attributable basis.
Revenue by product based on business unit.
20 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Copper Platinum Group Metals PGMs AngloAmerican has a world class asset position in copper, Our PGMs business held through an effective 79.4% built around its interests in two of the worlds largest copper interest in AngloAmerican Platinum Limited Platinum mines Los Bronces a 50.1% owned operation and is a leading producer of platinum group metals.
It mines, Collahuasi 44% owned joint operation, with Reserve Lives processes and refines the platinum basket of metals from of 30 years and 63 years, respectively.
The resource base itshigh quality resource base, located in one of the biggest of these assets underpins our future near-asset growth PGM deposits the Bushveld Complex in South Africa.
opportunities, in addition to our tier one Quellaveco project It also has a significant stake in one of the worlds largest in the south of Peru one of the worlds largest untapped PGMdeposits outside of South Africa, on the Great Dyke in copper orebodies that we are developing, and the Zimbabwe.
Our flagship platinum mine, Mogalakwena, is the polymetallic Sakatti deposit in Finland.
highest margin PGM producer in the industry and, as the only large open pit PGM mine globally, is at the centre of a The copper industry, although expected to be broadly more flexible, competitive and lower risk business.
balanced in the medium term, is expected to struggle to meet longer term demand growth, including from We are continuing to reposition the business around electric vehicles and renewable energy, as declining a leaner, best-in-class operating footprint at the grades and more challenging physical and environmental Mogalakwena, Amandelbult and Mototolo mines in conditions, along with tougher licensing and permitting SouthAfrica, and Unki mine in Zimbabwe, alongside requirements, are expected to affect the industrys ability our joint operation interests in the Kroondal and Modikwa to deliver new copper supply.
PGMs HELPING PAVE THE WAY TO A DECARBONISED WORLD As climate change concerns continue to grow, and an electrical current, emitting only water will also likely countries adopt ever-stricter legislation to improve play a significant part in the worlds future transport air quality, the internal combustion engine ICE is energy mix.
increasingly seen as old technology and the race Crucial to this development is what is happening in is now on to develop, and commercialise, the China, the worlds biggest automotive market, where technologies to replace it.
the government has set a 2020 target of having 2 million Until recently, hybrids which combine a conventional new electric vehicles and hydrogen-powered vehicles ICE with an electric battery and battery-driven on its roads, and 1 million FCEVs alone, by 2030.
The electric vehicles have been in the ascendant as their Chinese government has taken the lead in countering commercialisation and deployment do not require building the countrys high levels of air pollution and has hydrogen-fuelling andstorage infrastructure of scale.
decided that it cannot wait for the market on its own to pioneer, let alone commercialise, the expensive There is a growing realisation, however, that fuel cell technological developments required to pave the way electric vehicles FCEVs in which the PGM-containing for a hydrogen economy.
catalysts in their fuel cells kick-start a process whereby compressed hydrogen reacts with oxygen to generate The development of a manufacturing base for electric vehicles, and their sale to the domestic market, is a key policy of the Chinese government.
Consequently, it is providing substantial subsidies to both manufacturers and users of FCEVs.
Commercial FCEV producers qualify for subsidies of up to c. $144,000 per vehicle well above their sales price while companies purchasing an FCEV can receive a c. $70,000 subsidy per vehicle if it has driven at least 20,000 kilometres.
In 2018, China invested $12 billion on supporting FCEVs which more than covered their production costs with the main focus being on larger and longer-range vehicles such as trucks and buses as they benefit most from the range and other practical advantages of fuel cells.
This is positive news for our PGMs business.
Between now and 2030, FCEVs are expected to account for an estimated 500,000 ounces of PGMs, mainly platinum as these new uses for PGMs start to make inroads in the automotive market as the market share of traditional During November 2018, PGMs CEO Chris Griffith hosted an investor and analyst ICE vehicles, which use PGMs in their autocatalyst visit to China to showcase demand for platinum group metals.
The visit focused systems to scrub noxious gases, starts to decline.
on the growth of fuel cell vehicle production and adoption in China, as well as the changing dynamics of the platinum jewellery market there.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 21 STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO Demand for PGMs is forecast to increase over time, given Coal South Africas export product is derived from the ongoing trend towards cleaner emission vehicles, threewholly-owned andoperated mines Goedehoop, drivenby more stringent global emissions legislation.
Greenside and Khwezela: Zibulo 73% owned : as well as Increasing demand by the automotive industry is likely to from Mafube colliery, a 50:50 joint operation.
beaugmented by growing opportunities for emerging new Our operations route all export coal through the Richards applications, including hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell electric Bay Coal Terminal in which we hold a 23.2% stake.
We also vehicles, while emerging countries such as India offer the retain an effective 37% interest in the double-stage Phola potential of developing, from a relatively low base, into Coal Processing Plant, a 50:50 joint operation with South32.
Export thermal coal Colombia We are well positioned to proactively stimulate demand In Colombia, AngloAmerican, BHP and Glencore each have for platinum, including through targeted campaigns in a one-third shareholding in Cerrejn, one of the countrys emerging jewellery markets: creating new investment largest thermal coal exporters.
demand for the metal as a store of value: and through directinvestment in a number of companies developing Nickel and manganese newtechnologies that are expected to drive industrial Nickel demand for PGMs.
Our Nickel business has capacity to produce around 45,000tonnes per annum of nickel, whose primary end use Iron ore is in the global stainless steel industry.
Our assets both AngloAmericans iron ore operations provide customers 100% owned are in Brazil, with two ferronickel production with high iron content ore, a large percentage of which is sites: Barro Alto and Codemin.
direct-charge product for blast furnaces.
In SouthAfrica, we have a 69.7% shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore, where the Manganese Sishen and Kolomela mines produce high grade and quality We have a 40% minority shareholding in Samancor lump ore and also a premium fine ore.
The lump iron ore Holdings managed by South32, which holds 60%, with produced from Kumbas operations is in particular demand, operations based in South Africa and Australia.
and commands a quality premium price, owing to its excellent physical strength and high ironcontent.
PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING IN THE YEAR In Brazil, we have developed the integrated Minas-Rio We will continue to refine and upgrade our asset portfolio operation 100% ownership, consisting of an open pit mine as a matter of course to ensure that our capital is deployed and beneficiation plant, which produces a high grade and effectively to generate enhanced and sustainable returns for pellet feed product, with low levels of contaminants.
The iron ore is transported through a 529 kilometre pipeline AngloAmerican has transformed the quality and to the iron ore handling and shipping facilities at the port of performance of its portfolio over the past five years, halving Au, in which AngloAmerican has a 50% shareholding.
the number of assets while producing more physical Coal product.
This transformation has been achieved through Our coal portfolio is geographically diverse, with extensive operational self-help and other efficiency work, metallurgical coal assets in Australia, and thermal coal together with the sale, placing onto care and maintenance, assets in South Africa and Colombia.
and closure of less attractive assets, resulting in a step change in our operational performance, profitability and Metallurgical coal Australia cash flow generation.
We are the worlds third largest exporter ofmetallurgical coal and our operations serve customers throughout Asia Portfolio upgrade and the Indian sub-continent, Europe and South America.
In 2018, the Group completed a number of transactions, Our tier 1 coal assets include the Moranbah North including the sale of our 88.2% interest in the Drayton 88%ownership and Grosvenor 100% ownership thermal coal mine on care and maintenance since 2016 metallurgical coal mines, both located in Queensland.
The and the Drayton South project in Australia.
In South Africa, mines are underground longwall operations and produce we completed the sale of the New Largo thermal coal project hard coking coal.
More stringent environmental and safety and the Eskom-tied domestic thermal coal operations, regulations in China have led to a number of domestic coal PGMs 33% interest in the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum mine closures, resulting in increased demand and prices for Mine associate, as well as its 11% listed stake in Royal high quality coking coal, such as that produced by our Bafokeng Platinum, its 85% interest in Union mine and Australian mines.
50.1% interest in Masa Chrome Company.
Export thermal coal South Africa We also completed the acquisitions of the remaining We have refocused our South African coal portfolio to 50%interest in the Mototolo joint operation in South Africa concentrate on export markets, having successfully from Glencore andKagiso Platinum Ventures: and in completed thesale of the majority of the domestic coal Canada, the Chidliak Diamond Resource through DeBeers mines.
Wesupply around 19 million tonnes of thermal through the acquisition of Peregrine Diamonds Limited.
22 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Other transactions Quality discovery portfolio In July 2018, Platinum announced that it had subscribed for We are focused on the discovery of mineral deposits interests in two UK-based venture capital funds.
Platinums that are capable of delivering sustainable and superior commitment to the funds is matched by a commitment returns on a material scale, and which provide greater fromSouth Africas Government Employees Pension Fund optionality for the business.
represented by the Public Investment Corporation SOC We maintain a robust and diverse discovery portfolio, Limited.
Also in July, AngloAmerican completed a sale and including: leaseback transaction with M&G Investments with the intention of redeveloping and relocating the Groups London Near-asset discovery projects: a focus on the extensive headquarters to Charterhouse Street.
mineral tenure around Anglo Americans existing world class operations.
These include the Los Bronces and Quellaveco copper districts in Chile and Peru respectively, PROJECTS and the Mogalakwena PGMs district in South Africa.
Strict value criteria are applied to the assessment of Greenfield projects: identifying and securing extensive AngloAmericans portfolio of future growth options.
Where mineral tenure covering strategic, highly prospective appropriate, we aim to seek partners for the development search space in established and frontier settings.
The of major greenfield projects and are likely to not commit to greenfield discovery product focus includes copper, more than one such project at any given time.
The Group diamonds through DeBeers, nickel and PGMs.
The will continue to maintain optionality to progress with Group has active greenfield programmes in Australia, value-accretive projects, should capital availability permit.
North America Canada and the USA, South America In July 2018, the Board approved the development of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, theQuellaveco copper project in Peru, and aligned with Europe Finland, and southern Africa Botswana, the Groups disciplined approach to capital allocation, Namibia, and Zambia.
agreement was reached with Mitsubishi to increase its Innovation and technology at the heart of a interest in the project from 18.1% to 40% via the issuance differentiated discovery strategy of new shares.
By applying a leading conceptual understanding of how Project execution is on track, benefiting from early works world class mineral systems form at all scales, we aim to completed during the feasibility study stage.
All major identify and create material value through discovery in the permits are in place.
In line with plan, the diversion of the earths most prospective ground.
Asana river was successfully completed in early December, A combination of established and novel proprietary the first major milestone of the project.
Engineering, technologies is crucial to Anglo Americans track record contracting and procurement are well advanced, with ofmineral discoveries in new settings and beneath the earthworks also meaningfully progressed.
The full coverofoverlying material such as younger rock sequences complement of accommodation required for workers or desert sands.
Innovative discovery technologies will be available during the first half of 2019.
PLUS employedby Anglo American include the SPECTREM The priority in 2019 is to continue progressing earthworks airborne geophysical system, and the Low-Temperature and start concrete works at the plant site.
First production Superconducting Quantum Interference Device LT-SQUID is due in 2022, with the ramp-up complete in 2023.
The ground-based geophysical system, both developed through PLUS project will deliver around 300,000 tonnes per annum Anglo American-driven collaborations.
SPECTREM ofcopper equivalent production on average in the first collects high-resolution electromagnetic, magnetic, 10years of operation.
radiometric and gravity information about the sub-surface ina single airborne platform.
The LT-SQUID is a highly sensitive magnetometer that is particularly useful for DISCOVERY sensing metallic sulphide deposits in complex geological Our Geosciences team, including our exploration activities, environments that otherwise lack expression at surface.
is consolidated across the Group, including near-asset andgreenfield discovery, projects and operations.
The integrated function is supporting a greater technical understanding of our world class assets, a strategic advantage that is being applied to gain maximum benefit inboth near-asset and greenfield discovery work.
Building on the Groups strategy and long track record of discovery success, Anglo American is implementing a fundamentally revitalised discovery strategy that is enhancing our position as a discoverer of superior-value deposits that have the potential to enhance the production profile of the Group over time, and which will play a vital part in delivering a sustainable future for the business and our supply of products to our customers.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 23
