STRATEGIC REPORT THE PURPOSE TO REWARD JOURNEY THE PURPOSE TO REWARD JOURNEY OUR STRATEGY 1 Portfolio The quality and long life of our mineral assets are the foundation of our global business.
We focus on securing and continuously improving assets that offer the most attractive long term value-creation potential, as measured by sustainable cash flow and returns.
The scale and diversity of our portfolio allow us to leverage our financial resources, technical expertise, and supplier relationships towards delivery on our full potential and to the benefit of our customers, creating a measured risk OUR PURPOSE profile and supporting strong returns, through the cycle.
AngloAmerican is re-imagining For more on Portfolio See pages 18-23 mining to improve peoples lives.
2 Mining has a smarter, safer future.
Using more precise extraction technologies, Innovation less energy and less water, we are reducing Across every aspect of our business, we are our physical footprint for every ounce, carat thinking innovatively about how we ensure the safety and kilogram of precious metal or mineral.
of our people, enhance our sustainability performance, and deliver enduring value for all our stakeholders.
We are combining smart innovation with the From exploration to delivering our products to our utmost consideration for our people, their customers, FutureSmart Mining is our innovation-led families, local communities, our customers, pathway to sustainable mining.
Coupled with the best-in-class and the world at large to better connect the operational improvements being delivered from our unique Operating Model, we are fundamentally changing resources in the ground to the people who the way we extract, process and market our products, need and value them.
and will provide the next step change in operating and financial performance.
And we are working together to develop 3 For more on Innovation better jobs, better education and better See pages 24-33 businesses, building brighter and healthier People futures around our operations in our host Our people are critical to all that we do.
countries and ultimately for billions of The partnerships we build locally and globally are people around the world who depend central to maintaining our regulatory and social licences on our products every day.
to operate and our sustained commercial success.
We create inclusive and diverse working environments that encourage and support a high performance culture and innovative thinking.
Our Organisation Model ensures we have the right people in the right roles doing the right value-adding work at the right time, with clear accountabilities that minimise work duplication and increase capability and effectiveness.
For more on People See pages 34-39 Capital allocation Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-focused approach to capital allocation, with clear prioritisation: sustaining capital to maintain asset integrity including Reserve Life : then the base dividends to our shareholders, determined on a 40% underlying earnings-based payout ratio: while ensuring a strong balance sheet.
Discretionary capital is then allocated, based on a balanced approach, to growth investments or upgrades to our portfolio, that are subject to a demanding risk framework and that meet our stringent value criteria, or is considered for additional returns to shareholders.
For more on Capital allocation See pages 40-41 We are committed to six values which guide how we best of who they are to work.
Our values and the way in OUR VALUES conduct ourselves.
We are creating an organisation where which we, as individuals, are expected to behave are the all people are treated in such a way that they bring the foundation of our Code of Conduct.
10 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report MEASURING DELIVERY BALANCED REWARD OF OUR STRATEGY Anglo Americans directors remuneration policy We track our strategic progress on isdesigned to encourage delivery of the Groups TM strategy and creation of stakeholder value in a an ongoing basis using KPIs that are FutureSmart Mining responsible and sustainable manner, aligned to based on our seven pillars of value: TM our Purpose.
The main elements of the FutureSmart Mining is our innovation-led pathway remuneration package are basic salary, annual to sustainable mining.
These are the step-change bonus and LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP.
innovations that will transform the nature of mining SAFETY AND HEALTH how we mine, process, move and market our products To do no harm to and how our stakeholders experience our business, Basic salary in terms of our physical and societal footprint.
our workforce Basic salary levels are reviewed annually by the For more on FutureSmart Mining Remuneration Committee, taking into account See www.
com futuresmart company performance, individual performance, ENVIRONMENT levels of increase for the broader population andinflation.
Reference may be made to the market To minimise our impact median of FTSE 50 and natural resource companies, on the environment or other peer groups, to ensure market alignment.
Annual bonus SOCIO-POLITICAL Annual bonus performance measures include: To partner in the benefits of 50% on underlying earnings per share EPS.
mining with local communities EPSis one of the Groups key financial measures and government ofperformance and is set on an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding yet realistic The remaining measures include project delivery, PEOPLE business improvement, stakeholder engagement, sustainability and talent management To create a sustainable A modifier is applied depending on the extent to competitive advantage Sustainable mining which safety and sustainability targets are met through capable people and TM AngloAmerican has applied its FutureSmart Mining From 2018 onwards, our business leaders are an effective, Purpose-led, programme to what we believe is an industry-leading heldpersonally accountable for any failures on high performanceculture approach to sustainability.
This is focused on three ourjourney to the goal of zero harm with the global sustainability pillars trusted corporate leader, introduction of a safety deductor thriving communities, and healthy environment each To help ensure sustainable long term performance, PRODUCTION encompassing three global stretch goals.
Deliberately 60% of any annual bonus is deferred into shares ambitious, these goals will challenge our business to To sustainably produce fora minimum of three years and is subject innovate and change, and we are mobilising our toclawback.
valuable product people and resources to deliver them by 2030.
For more detail on our approach to sustainability See www.
com sustainability COST Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP To be competitive by operating as efficiently as possible The LTIP performance measures are aligned to ourstrategic objectives over a three-year performance period.
Vested LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for an additional two FINANCIAL years to encourage alignment of executive and To deliver sustainable returns shareholder interests.
to our shareholders The LTIP performance measures and weightings are: 70% subject to Group Total Shareholder Return TSR, with two-thirds relative to the Euromoney For our KPIs Global Mining Index and one-third relative to the See pages 48-49 constituent of the FTSE 100 index 30% subject to a balanced scorecard of financial and strategic objectives, including environmental and sustainability targets.
For our Remuneration Report See pages 100-125 Safety Care and respect Accountability Collaboration Integrity Innovation Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 11
