l a t r i e p t f a a c w g o n fl i n h i s a t a s C u s C b o a m s e m i d t i v m STRATEGIC REPORT CAPITAL ALLOCATION CAPITAL ALLOCATION A STRONG FOCUS ON CAPITAL DISCIPLINE Balance sheet flexibility Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-focused approach to capital allocation with clear prioritisation: sustaining capital to maintain asset integrity includingReserve Life : then the base dividend to ourshareholders, determined on a 40% underlying earnings-based payout ratio: while ensuring a strongbalance sheet.
Discretionary capital is then allocated, based on a balanced approach, to growth Discretionary capital options investments, or upgrades to our portfolio, that are subject to a demanding risk framework and that meet Portfolio Future Additional upgrade project options shareholder returns our stringent value criteria, oris considered for additional returns to shareholders.
Value-disciplined capital allocation throughout the cycle continued its positive credit ratings momentum with iscritical to protecting and enhancing returns for our S&PGlobal Ratings and Moodys Investors Service moving shareholders invested capital, given the long term and their outlook for Anglo American from stable to positive capital-intensive nature of our business.
Anglo American plcs current credit ratings providea balanced offering of a strong balance sheet, areBBBand Baa3 by S&P Global Ratings and Moodys whichreduces risk and creates opportunity for anti-cyclical Investors Service, respectively.
investment, attractive shareholder returns and value-adding disciplined growth.
CASH FLOW AFTER SUSTAINING CAPITAL Since 2012, we have reduced the number of assets across the Group by half, upgraded the portfolio and improved the Anglo American seeks to improve operating free cash flow performance of the assets we have retained.
During 2018, through five key levers: driving greater productivity and our focus was on further strengthening the balance sheet to lowering input costs across all operations: reducing overhead provide the foundation for proceeding with the construction expenditure: timely delivery of new projects: maximising of our Quellaveco copper project, as well asa strong base revenue through our Marketing business: and optimising upon which to pursue other growth opportunities that meet ourinvestment in working capital.
our strict capital allocation criteria.
We continue to focus on capital discipline and stay-inWe will continue to allocate the appropriate capital across business capital efficiency, while maintaining the operational ourportfolio of assets, to both sustain our business and to integrity of all our assets.
Our P101 programme of initiatives protect and enhance value.
is focused on reaching and exceeding industry-benchmark productivity levels across all our key equipment.
BALANCE SHEET FLEXIBILITY Sustaining capital comprises stay-in-business, development and stripping, and life extension expenditure, less the Our capital allocation framework is underpinned by our proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
strong balance sheet, which allows us to deliver on our In 2019-2021, we expect sustaining capital to increase to commitment to base dividends and enables value-accretive approximately $3.2 billion per annum due to one-off discretionary capital allocation through the cycle.
Our near increases in stay-in-business capital expenditure and to term objective is to ensure the Groups net debt EBITDA facilitate attractive life extension projects at our diamonds, ratio does not exceed 1.5 times, at the bottom of the cycle, thermal coal and metallurgical coal assets.
Our longer term without a clear plan to recover.
expected level of sustaining capital excluding growth Net debt at 31 December 2018 was $2.8 billion projects is $2.8-$3.1 billion per annum.
2017:$4.5billion, resulting in a net debt EBITDA ratio of 0.3times, significantly lower than our bottom of the cycle COMMITMENT TO BASE DIVIDENDS target ratio.
The $1.7 billion reduction in net debt since 31December 2017 has been driven primarily by strong Our clear commitment to a sustainable base dividend operating cash inflows of $7.8 billion and dividends from remains a critical part of the overall capital allocation associates and joint ventures of $0.7 billion, with a strong approach and is demonstrated through our dividend policy performance towards the end of the year mitigating the ofa 40% payout ratio based on underlying earnings, paid impact of a working capital build-up experienced in the each half-year.
Our dividend policy provides shareholders with increased In 2018, the average maturity of our bond portfolio was cash returns upon improvement in product prices, while extended by a year to 5.0 years, through a combination of retaining balance sheet flexibility during periods of weaker buying back $2.1 billion of bonds with near term maturities, pricing.
The Group paid dividends of $0.7 billion in April 2018 the maturing of $1.3 billion of bonds, and the issuance of a in relation to second half 2017 underlying earnings, and longer-dated $650 million US bond, due in 2028.
The Group $0.6 billion in September 2018 in relation to first half 2018 40 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 i d e e n n t d t o s y n r o a i n t o p i o t e l r a c t s i i p D a c Strategic report underlying earnings.
In line with the policy, the Board We also completed the acquisitions of the remaining 50% proposes a final dividend of 40% of second half underlying interest in the Mototolo joint operation in South Africa from earnings, equal to 51 cents per share, bringing the total Glencore and Kagiso Platinum Ventures: and in Canada, the dividends paid and proposed in the year to $1.00 per share.
Chidliak Diamond Resource through fide Beers through the acquisition of Peregrine Diamonds Limited.
DISCRETIONARY CAPITAL OPTIONS GROUP CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Discretionary capital will continue to be considered in a balanced manner, between disciplined growth, upgrades Capital expenditure increased to $2.8 billion toour portfolio and additional returns to shareholders.
2017:$2.2billion, withrigorous capital discipline continuing to be applied to all projects.
Sustaining capital increased to Strict and disciplined value criteria are applied to the $2.5 billion 2017: $2.1 billion, driven by stronger average assessment of future options.
Where appropriate, we will local currencies, planned additional stay-in-business seek partners on major greenfield projects, and will avoid expenditure across the Group, in line with our increased committing to too many such projects at the same time.
The production base, and increased capitalised development and Group will also continue to maintain optionality to progress stripping expenditure primarily due to longwall productivity with value-accretive projects, should capital availability improvements at Metallurgical Coal and an optimisation permit.
We will consider options to upgrade the quality of ofthe mine plan at Mogalakwena.
In 2019, we expect ourportfolio in a measured manner and only where we see totalcapital expenditure to increase to $3.8-$4.1billion after value, through inorganic opportunities, and disposing of utilising the remaining $0.5 billion of capital expenditure assets.
This approach ensures a high quality portfolio with funding for Quellaveco from the Mitsubishi subscription.
balanced exposure to diverse asset geographies and end markets.
Where growth and upgrades do not meet our strict criteria, any excess cash will be considered for additional Capital expenditure returns toshareholders.
$ million 2018 2017 In July 2018, the Board approved the development of theQuellaveco copper project in Peru, with an expected Stay-in-business 1,617 1,310 capitalcost of $5.0-$5.3 billion.
At the same time, and Development and stripping 796 586 aligned with the Groups disciplined approach to capital 1 allocation, agreement was reached with Mitsubishi to Life extension projects 245 216 increase its interest in Anglo American Quellaveco S. A.
Proceeds from disposal of 162 52 AAQSA from 18.1% to 40% via the issuance of new property, plant and equipment shares.
Mitsubishi subscribed $500 million in upfront consideration and an additional $351 million to fund its Sustaining capital 2,496 2,060 initial share of capital expenditure, resulting in a total cash 1 Growth projects 340 168 subscription of $851 million.
The Group will receive up to 1 a further $100 million in net payments from AAQSA Total 2,836 2,228 conditional on the achievement of certain prescribed Capitalised operating cash flows 18 78 throughput rates.
As aresult of the syndication transaction, the Groups share of capital expenditure to develop Total capital expenditure 2,818 2,150 Quellaveco is $2.5-$2.7 billion.
1 Life extension projects and growth projects are collectively referred to as We also have several smaller scale, high quality, fast expansionary capital expenditure.
payback 3-4 years, organic capital expenditure opportunities to improve the existing business.
For example, Group historical capital expenditure 20142018 at Debmarine Namibia, a feasibility study is ongoing for the $ billion construction ofan additional custom-built diamond mining vessel which isplanned to add 0.5 Mct per annum from 2023, 7 and a pre-feasibility study is under way for a debottlenecking 6.0 and expansion ofthe Moranbah-Grosvenor coal handling and 6 preparationplant to increase capacity by 4-6Mtpa from 2021.
5 In addition, we continue to progress the application of 4.2 4 innovative concepts and step-change technologies stemming from our FutureSmart Mining programme.
The 2.8 3 Group is looking toinvest $0.1-$0.5 billion per annum of 2.4 2.2 discretionary capital in technology and innovation initiatives 2 to drive improvements across our existing portfolio of assets.
1 Evaluation expenditure increased by 38% to $172 million in 0 2018 2017: $125 million and expenditure on exploration 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 activities increased 10% to $113 million 2017: $103 million.
Stay-in-business In 2018, the Group completed a number of transactions, Development and stripping Expansionary including the sale of our 88.2% interest in the Drayton thermal coal mine on care and maintenance since 2016 and the Drayton South project in Australia.
In South Africa, 1 we completed the sale of the New Largo thermal coal project The payment, by way of preference and the Eskom-tied domestic thermal coal operations, dividend, will be PGMs 33% interest in the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum grossed up to take Mine associate, as well as its 11% listed stake in Royal account of the Group Bafokeng Platinum, its 85% interest in Union mine and shareholding in AAQSA.
50.1% interest in Masa Chrome Company.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 41
