CONSULTATION SURVEY STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MATERIAL MATTERS AngloAmericans stakeholders include our customers, OUR MATERIAL MATTERS host communities, employees and unions, partners, governments, multinational organisations, broader civil society, trade associations and suppliers, in addition to our shareholders who own the business.
In some instances we participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives where, by definition, multiple stakeholder groups are involved to provide a more collaborative and holistic view on the issues facing the industry.
UNDERSTANDING WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS DETERMINING WHAT IS IMPORTANT AND OUR BUSINESS Identifying and evaluating matters that are of common material interest to our stakeholders and to our business, In line with best-practice corporate reporting, and understanding how they may affect our ability to create AngloAmericans Integrated Annual Report includes value over time, are integral to our planning processes and a comprehensive assessment of not only the principal help support the delivery of AngloAmericans strategy.
risks facing the business, but also those matters that our stakeholders and ourselves believe have a material Our process for determining those matters involves bearing on the success of the business over time.
three steps: consultation, analysis and approval.
By engaging with our stakeholders and being aware of The consultation process in 2018 involved extensive their perspectives, and by understanding the risks we desktop research, including: review of the Group Risk face, we are better placed to make informed decisions Register: global media coverage and analyst reports on that help support the delivery of our strategy.
AngloAmerican and the mining sector: and analysis of minuted Board and executive discussions.
We also conducted an external consultation survey with a wide STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT range of stakeholders, including investors, communities, Our licence to operate depends on constructive customers, suppliers, governments, civil society and relationships with a wide and diverse range of stakeholders.
We will continue to conduct such Effective stakeholder engagement helps us to better engagement on a regular basis.
communicate our business performance, decisions and activities that may have a material impact on, or are of significant interest to, our stakeholders.
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES Investors Annual General Meeting, investor roadshows, one-on-one meetings, results webcasts and investor days Communities Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT, surveys, community accountability forums, and complaints and grievance procedures Governments and Ongoing engagement across all levels of Principal multilateral institutions government national, regional and local and risks multilateral organisations e. g. UN, EU, World Bank in relation to policy and legislation of relevance to responsible business practices Employees and Face-to-face dialogue between employees BOARD CAPITAL trade unions and line managers, employee surveys, INSIGHTS STRATEGY REVIEW ALLOCATION dialogue through established industrial relations channels and meetings with unions Suppliers and Focused supplier events, strategic supplier contractors relationship management, local procurement Material and small business development initiatives matters Civil society NGOs, One-on-one interactions, stakeholder faith groups, academia partnerships and initiatives Customers Commodity and product-specific marketing and one-on-one meetings Industry business Association memberships, industry events, associations peer-to-peer meetings 16 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report MATERIAL MATTERS IN 2018 Each material matter covers a number of topics and issues, and some also intersect with specific principal risks facing The matters identified through our materiality process the Group, as identified in the Group Risk Register.
Principal were naturally numerous and wide-ranging.
These were risks are those risks, or combination of risks, that would then analysed and prioritised by senior management and threaten the business model, future performance, solvency then reviewed and approved by the Board.
or liquidity of AngloAmerican and are shown with the In order for us to report against these material matters following symbol.
An analysis of the Groups principal effectively, and demonstrate how they affect the delivery of risks, including mitigation strategies, can be found on pages our strategy, we have set them out under the headings listed 44-47 of this report.
For our Principal risks See pages 44-47 Matters identified as material to our stakeholders and our business include: MATERIAL MATTERS AREAS OF IMPACT Strategic elements: Safety and health 2 3 Protecting the safety and health of employees, contractors and local community and other stakeholders is a fundamental issue facing AngloAmerican and the mining industry.
While protecting people from harm is a moral imperative, our focus on zero harm Pillars of value: also constitutes a direct investment in the productivity of the business.
A safe and healthy workforce contributes to an engaged, motivated and productive workforce that mitigates operational stoppages and reduces potential legal liabilities.
Strategic elements: Environmental impacts and climate change 1 2 Responsible environmental management, including the management of water consumption and discharge, is not only a major factor in legal compliance and permitting, but also plays a significant role in improving the balance of value from mining for our Pillars of value: local stakeholders.
Understanding the effects of climate change on our business and how they may impact our value chain is important as we strive to maximise the opportunities associated with the transition to a low-carbon future.
Strategic elements: Meeting our commitments to business stakeholders and society 1 2 3 Local communities and host governments expect mining to bring significant economic benefits: and our ultimate goal is to leave host communities and governments better off than when we arrived.
AngloAmerican aims to bring economic prosperity Pillars of value: to national and local economies through employment, our supply chain and the subsequent increase in local business and commerce, and a collaborative approach to regional development.
Acting in an ethical, responsible and transparent manner is fundamental to AngloAmerican realising the significant business benefits gained from building trusted and constructive relationships with all our business stakeholders, and to maintaining our socio-political licence to operate.
Strategic elements: Workforce culture and capability 3 To deliver on our strategic business objectives, we rely on a capable and engaged workforce that behaves ethically and responsibly, consistent with AngloAmericans values and Code of Conduct: these are also essential for us to maintain our social Pillars of value: licence to operate.
We aim to foster a high performance, inclusive culture, through building an organisational structure that is fit for purpose, resourcing this structure with the appropriate capabilities and empowering leadership to deliver the desired outcomes.
Strategic elements: Operational and cost performance 1 2 3 The mining sector continues to face operating cost inflation, including labour costs, energy costs and the impact of ore grade deterioration.
Pillars of value: In order to deliver our profitable growth strategy and to maintain our competitive position, AngloAmerican must deliver its financial improvement targets and minimise the number of unplanned operational stoppages that affect production.
Strategic elements: Political and regulatory 1 2 3 AngloAmerican operates or has projects in a number of countries where there is political instability and where the regulatory environment for the mining industry is uncertain.
Pillars of value: Strategic elements: Macro-economic environment 1 2 Economic slowdown in those countries that are major consumers of the Groups products could have a negative impact on demand for those products.
Demand may also be negatively affected by product substitution and or fundamental shifts in market Pillars of value: forces.
The Marketplace review on pages 12-15 gives more detail on the macro-economic environment facing the Group.
PILLARS OF VALUE STRATEGIC ELEMENTS 1 Safety and health Production Portfolio 2 Environment Cost Innovation 3 Socio-political Financial People People For our pillars of value For our strategic elements See page 11 See pages 10-11 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 17
