STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW UNDERSTANDING THE CONTEXT MARKETPLACE UNLOCKING OUR POTENTIAL IN A CHANGING WORLD REVIEW GLOBAL TREND WHAT IS IT?
WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR OUR INDUSTRY?
HOW ARE WE UNLOCKING POTENTIAL?
In light of societys widespread concerns around the expected impacts of climate Tightening emissions standards are being applied not just to cars and We mine the metals and minerals that will help the transition to a cleaner world: Moving towards a cleaner change, countries are working collectively to curb greenhouse gas and other other vehicles, but also to the production of raw materials needed to PGMs critical in catalytic converters in internal combustion engines and, as vehicles noxious emissions, reduce energy intensity and protect the environment.
make them and the power generating units that create the energy for transition to electric drive trains, platinum is the catalyst in fuel cell EVs world the transition towards those raw materials.
Copper a key element in alternative electricity generation heavily used in wind The global response includes a transition towards lower emission transport and turbines and solar power units, as well as in all forms of EVs energy generation, likely to result in secular shifts in consumer demand across a As a result, consumers of mined products are increasingly replacing lower emission transport and number of industry sectors.
ageing infrastructure, such as blast furnaces and power plants, with Nickel used in batteries within EVs.
newer, cleaner equipment potentially negatively impacting demand for energy solutions We provide niche steelmaking products to our customers, who are increasingly some lower quality bulk commodities, while creating a new market for required to meet stricter environmental regulations.
These products are in high premium quality metallurgical and thermal coal and iron ore. demand and command a premium to benchmark prices: Increased demand for metals and minerals that are used in alternative Lump and high quality iron ore Kumba For more information on our Portfolio energy generation and electric vehicles EVs : in the longer term, High quality hard coking coal Metallurgical Coal See pages 18-23 reduced demand for fossil fuels.
Low impurity iron ore pellet feed Minas-Rio.
Increasing focus on the environmental performance of For more information on Innovation We are working closely with our customers to help them achieve their environmental See pages 24-33 mining companies.
goals and to ensure we are providing the tailored products for their specific needs, on time and reliably.
A number of developing countries, particularly China which accounts for around Slowing growth though still growth, with absolute volumes remaining As a result of our strategy to focus on world class assets, AngloAmerican has a diversified Emerging wealth a fast 50% of demand for mined products and is AngloAmericans largest source of challenging for the mining industry to supply in demand for the product portfolio, mining products that are well placed to serve the needs of the revenue, have experienced a period of rapid urbanisation and industrialisation over commodities that are used in the provision of roads, buildings, railways expanding global middle class.
We have exposure to some of the largest resource bases growing global middle class the last two decades, resulting in an unprecedented number of households entering and other infrastructure, e. g. metallurgical coal and iron ore. in both PGMs and diamonds.
We also have world class copper resources in Los Bronces the wealthier middle class.
By 2030, it is forecast there will be approximately 1billion and Collahuasi, as well as the Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
We have exposure to As disposable incomes increase, demand for metals that are used additional middle class consumers in the world compared with 2018. nickel through BarroAlto and Codemin, and as a by-product of our PGM mines.
in the manufacture of white goods and consumer electronics, such as In China, although the growth in urbanisation and industrialisation is expected to copper, nickel and manganese, increases.
Our diamond business produces high quality rough diamonds for the production For more information on our Portfolio slow, government policy is widely expected to structurally adjust, resulting in Chinas of luxury jewellery.
Our high quality and low cost assets are able to flex production See pages 18-23 As purchasing power increases, so too does the appetite for luxury economy maturing from industrial manufacturing to services.
goods and services, including cars, jewellery, advanced technological For more information on Innovation A number of other countries and regions are expected to experience greater goods and travelling for leisure.
Demand for later-cycle products, such Our innovative market development and investment programmes aim to stimulate See pages 24-33 economic maturity in the decades ahead, particularly India, south east Asia and as PGMs and diamonds, is expected to increase.
sustainable demand for our products and, in particular, PGMs.
Political uncertainty and protectionist trade policies can adversely affect The pronounced commodity price downturn experienced in The application of FutureSmart Mining and within it our far-reaching approach to Evolving societal and global and or regional economic growth and, consequently, the demand for 2015-2016, and the resultant strain on many companies balance sustainability is designed to help address both societys fears and expectations about mined products.
sheets, constrained much of the mining industry from undertaking the physical impacts of mining, as well as to work with governments to advocate for regulatory expectations capital-intensive projects to create future supply.
progressive regulatory frameworks that encourage and support the long term An uncertain political and regulatory environment, with resultant uncertainty investments required for mines.
in economic growth forecasts, has been a major factor in the significant price The uncertain regulatory environment in some mining jurisdictions volatility experienced in the commodity markets in recent years.
can lead to higher costs in the form of delays in licensing and permitting, Our Operating Model is designed to put us at the forefront of established industry and higher taxes and royalties, all of which can deter investment in best-in-class performance offering insulation from price and other volatility by placing For more information on Innovation Governments in countries where mining is a material source of national revenue those countries.
us at the low end of the industry cost curves.
See pages 24-33 are under pressure to strike a balance between delivering more benefit and regulatory reform, while at the same time not deterring much needed private The technologies we are deploying will begin to address societys rightful expectations For more information on capital allocation sector investment.
about water and energy intensity, further supporting our licence to operate, and helping See pages 40-41 us access previously uneconomic orebodies, which we see as a competitive advantage.
In addition, mining companies are facing greater demands and expectations from increasingly vocal and diverse stakeholder groups, with often competing Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-focused approach to capital allocation, interests, in the context of greater societal intolerance for poor business and with clear prioritisation: sustaining capital to maintain asset integrity including sustainability practices.
Reserve Life : then the base dividends to our shareholders, determined on a 40%underlying earnings-based payout ratio: while ensuring a strong balance sheet.
Maintaining long term supply for some metals and minerals is becoming ever more The factors described are contributing to structural upward cost Over the last few years, AngloAmerican has upgraded the quality of its portfolio and A more challenging physical difficult for a number of reasons, including: pressure across the mining industry.
is now operating a suite of high quality, long life, high margin assets across structurally attractive markets.
Availability of both water and energy Consequently, mining companies face a significant challenge to reduce environment for mining costs and improve productivity against a background of limited Our innovation-led pathway to sustainable mining FutureSmart Mining uses Declining ore grades investment appetite and few significant breakthroughs in technological innovative mining methods and technologies to overcome challenges of water, lower Increasing infrastructure costs as mines are built in more remote locations capability.
Technological innovation and a focus on operational grades and energy constraints and reduce capital intensity and operating costs.
The shift to underground mining as easy to access near-surface orebodies improvements are likely to be critical to the achievement of sustainable For more information on Innovation become depleted.
Anglo Americans revitalised Discovery strategy is enhancing our position as a cost and productivity improvements and the ability to supply the market See pages 24-33 discoverer of superior-value deposits that have the potential to enhance the over the long term.
production profile and competitive position of the Group over time, and which play a vital part in delivering a sustainable future.
12 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report A number of global trends influence the mining decisions aligned to our Purpose positions us well to industryand our business decisions.
We understand take advantage of commercial and other opportunities, those trends and believe our strategy: our high quality thereby unlocking our full potential for sustainable portfolio of assets: relentless approach to innovation: value creation.
and talented people combined with our business GLOBAL TREND WHAT IS IT?
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 13 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW OF 2018 pace of deleveraging has allowed growth to be supported GLOBAL GROWTH CONTINUES while maintaining economic stability.
In 2018, global GDP growth, according to the IMF, was The outlook for other emerging markets also weakened, 3.7% 2017: 3.6%.
Growth slowed in the second half, despite Indias growth rate increasing to an estimated 7.3% however, due to the negative effects of US-China trade in 2018 2017: 6.7%.
The South African rand depreciated by tensions, country-specific factors, tighter financial around 14% on weaker than expected activity in the first half conditions, geopolitical tensions, and higher oil import bills.
and slow reform progress, partially unwinding earlier gains associated with the change in leadership.
Commodity prices fared well over the year, with the majority of Anglo Americans products performing better than in 2017.
MARKETS REVIEW Diamonds TRADE AND POLITICS Preliminary data for 2018 indicates an improvement in global consumer demand for diamond jewellery, in US dollar Underpinned by fiscal stimulus, US GDP growth was terms.
This was driven by growth in the US and, to a lesser estimated at 2.9%.
However, a sequence of US tariff actions extent, China, and was further amplified by positive on solar panels, washing machines, steel, aluminium, and a exchange rate movements in China and Japan against the range of Chinese products, followed by retaliation by trading dollar.
However, demand is expected to have declined in partners, has complicated global trade relations.
Higher India, as well as from the Gulf.
trade barriers are expected to disrupt global supply chains and reduce efficiencies, ultimately resulting in lower global Midstream sentiment started the year on a positive note economic growth and welfare.
owing to strong demand from US and Chinese retailers.
While conditions were supportive for midstream businesses Following protracted renegotiations, the US, Canada and overall, those specialising in cutting and polishing of the Mexico reached a new trade deal, USMCA, to replace low-priced product segment came under considerable NAFTA.
Tensions with China, however, continued, resulting pressure towards the end of 2018, due to the relative lack of in the US announcing a rangeof import tariffs from 10% to demand, as well as the rapid depreciation of the rupee and 25%, amounting tonearly $250 billion.
In response, China the reduction in bank financing.
announced retaliatory tariffs on US imports of a similar scale.
The US also suggested that a further $267billion of Platinum Group Metals Chinese goods covering nearly all remainingChinese Markedly diverging trends characterised the precious imports may attract tariffs, including those in the metals markets in 2018.
Although the average platinum automotive sector, potentially affecting other countries.
price declined, other precious metal prices strengthened significantly: palladium, notably, reached a record high of In China, policy stimulus may offset the US trade $1,271 ounce in December.
While the pronounced, and measuressomewhat.
Over 2018, the central bank cut widening, discount for platinum relative to palladium  ratios for banks four times and presents an opportunity for substitution in petrol-engine introduced several stimulatory measures, including tax cuts, catalytic converters, the timing and extent of this remain infrastructure spending, central bank cash injections and a uncertain given practical and regulatory hurdles.
softening of regulations designed to curb shadow banking.
Platinum was estimated to be in surplus for 2018, as weaker The countrys GDP is estimated to havegrown by 6.6% demand in the European light-duty diesel sector and a 2017: 6.9% : however it is expected to slow to 6.2% in 2019. challenging environment for Chinese jewellery, more than Although debt levels continue to raise concerns, reducing the Indexed 2018 prices 1.3 Change in average annual price 2018 vs 2017 Anglo American 4% Nickel 26% Palladium 18% Thermal coal 17% 1.0 Metallurgical coal 10% Copper 6% fide Beers price index 1% Iron ore 3 % Platinum 7 % 0.6 Dec 2018 Jan 2018 Anglo American basket price Platinum Metallurgical coal fide Beers price index Palladium Thermal coal FOB South Africa Copper Iron ore Platts 62% CFR China Nickel Source: Anglo American Commodity Research 14 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Price Index, 1 January 2018 1.0 Strategic report offset increases in the light-duty sector ex-Europe and Crude steel output in China set a new annual record of growth in heavy-duty diesel demand.
Global demand 928Mt in 2018, supported by more than 1.07 billion tonnes decreased by an estimated 6% to 5.6 million ounces ofiron ore imports.
Globally, production increased by 2017:5.9 million ounces.
A significant area of platinum approximately 4.4%, or 77 Mt, driven primarily by growth demand industrial applications expanded by 14% inAsia.
to2.4million ounces 2017: 2.1 million ounces, driven Following a strong start at the beginning of 2018, the mainlybyadditional purchases from the chemical and ironore price decreased to trade in a narrow price range electronicssectors.
$60-70 tonne for nearly seven months.
After a brief rally at On the supply side, global mine supply of platinum was the end of 2018, the average CFR China 62% Fe benchmark flatat6.1 million ounces.
South African output increased was marginally lower at $69 tonne 2017: $71 tonne.
marginally to 4.5 million ounces 2017: 4.4 million ounces, Iron ore supply was strong through 2018, and the premiums partly offsetting a decline in output from Russia.
Meanwhile, achieved for high grade ores saw substantial gains as steel secondary supply from end-of-life catalytic converters rose mills continued to focus on productivity.
The lump premium by 8% to 1.4 million ounces, with most of the increase seen also increased significantly, achieving an average of in Europe and North America.
$21 tonne 2017: $16 tonne, and reaching a record high of $27 tonne, in the year.
Palladium was estimated to be in deficit for the seventh successive year, following tighter emissions regulations Metallurgical coal prices showed continued strength, with forpetrol vehicles, especially in China.
Palladium the hard coking coal HCC benchmark increasing by 10% automotivedemand increased by 3% to 8.6 million ounces to average $207 tonne FOB Australia 2017: $188 tonne, 2017:8.4 million ounces, while industrial demand was the highest annual level in six years.
Global consumption 2% higher, driven by increased purchases from the ofmetallurgical coal increased by 1% to 1.15billion tonnes chemical sector.
However, supply from the worldslowest-cost producer, Australia, increased by Global mine supply of palladium increased by 8% to only 5Mt, as the country experienced multiple minor 6.9million ounces 2017: 6.4 million ounces.
South African disruptionsat mines, rail links and ports.
This ensured that sales were marginally higher and volumes from Russia more marginal sources of supply, such as in China andthe alsoincreased, being supported by sales of above-ground US, remained active to balance demand, resulting in stocks.
Secondary supply of palladium from end-of-life elevated prices.
catalytic converters increased by 13% to 2.7 million ounces 2017: 2.4 million ounces.
While imports of HCC into the worlds largest market, China, fell, and are not expected to recover significantly Base metals inthe face of Chinas import quotas and rising steel scrap Refined copper consumption grew by around 3% in availability, India where consumption rose by 5 Mt in 2018 2018, with strength in the construction, transportation looks set to be the primary engine of future demand growth, andengineering sectors underpinning demand.
Tighter as domestic steel production expands.
High volatility environmental restrictions affected copper-scrap continues to characterise the high grade HCC market, importsinto China, contributing to growth in apparent givenlimited supply options, and the lack of flexibility that refined demand.
coke-makers typically have on a short term time horizon.
Copper prices averaged 296 c lb 2017: 280 c lb : however, In contrast, semi-soft coking coal and pulverised coal there was a marked difference between the first and second injection grades were stable over the year, resulting in halves, as prices declined from above 325 c lb at the start of price discounts relative to HCC varying widely over the 2018, to below 270 c lb in August.
Macro-economic indicators pointed to sound demand Thermal coal prices showed significantly positive prospects, boosted by a relatively lean pipeline of new developments, based on solid Korean and Japanese supply.
The escalation of US-China trade tensions, however, demand in the Pacific and some Australian supply issues, affected sentiment and there was a sharp sell-off through particularly in the higher energy coals.
As China reduced June and July.
Despite a modest rally inthe third quarter, imports in the second half, knock-on effects and a supply prices remained well below first-quarter levels, with rebound in Indonesia and South Africa widened the discount uncertainties over growing protectionism on global trade to some of those coals.
The FOB South Africa price coming to the fore.
Nickel demand grew by around 6% in 2018, driven primarily by a 5% increase in global stainless steel output.
On the OUTLOOK supply side, nickel mine output also increased by around 6%.
Nickel refined production increased by around 5%, Global financial conditions are expected to tighten in 2019 butthis wasinsufficient to prevent a deficit for the third as monetary policy normalises and trade measures already consecutive year.
The average nickel price increased by implemented weigh on economic activity.
policy expected to reduce momentum from 2020, and Chinas economy maturing, a moderation of global growth Bulk commodities isexpected over time.
This outlook faces several downside Global finished steel demand is estimated to have increased risks, including the intensification of the US-China trade by more than 4% in 2018, supported by healthy demand, dispute and overshoots on policy or supply.
Throughout much of 2018, the profit margins of Chinas steel mills were high, driven in part by Despite this, the outlook for 2019 remains cautiously environmental restrictions encouraging producers to positive for our products on the back of positive consumer maintain high utilisation rates through using higher quality sentiment and reasonably supported demand growth.
raw materials and a greater proportion of scrap.
Stricter rules, issued by the Chinese authorities in early 2018, thatpermit new steel capacity only if old capacity is closed, are expected to be supportive of the industrys ongoing profitability.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 15
