STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL AngloAmerican draws upon a number of key inputs from both its central expertise and its operating businesses that, through targeted allocation, development, extraction and marketing, create sustainable value for our shareholders and our diverse range of stakeholders.
GROUP INPUTS Financial Other natural resources Relationships with footprint, providing a suite Our corporate centre allocates Mining and processing our stakeholders of organic options for our financial resources where activities have long been Open and honest engagement delivering value over the WORLD CLASS they can be put to work most major users of water and with our stakeholders is critical long term.
ASSET PORTFOLIO effectively to deliver optimal energy.
Our technical and in gaining and maintaining our Plant and equipment financial returns for our social expertise combine to social and regulatory licences Our procurement and shareholders.
provide advice and hands-on to operate and, therefore, the Quality technical teams form strong support to our operations sustainability of our business.
Know-how relationships with major The high quality and long to mitigate their water and We engage with a wide range We link our industry-leading suppliers to deliver tailored energy requirements, of stakeholders to ensure life of our mineral assets technical and marketing equipment and other solutions while also developing new effective two-way relationships.
knowledge to ensure we invest to enable best-in-class from which we will deliver technologies that have the our efforts and capital in key Ore Reserves and operating performance potential to significantly attractive and sustainable leverage points in the mine to Mineral Resources and cost-effectiveness.
reduce our physical and market value chain.
We have an extensive resource shareholder returns.
base across our businesses and across a wide geographic People OUR PEOPLE-CENTRIC Our people are the business.
We aim to resource the organisation VALUE CHAIN with a capable, engaged and productive workforce and are We will invest in those points in the committed to ensuring value chain that provide us with the no harm comes best return on our investment.
to any of MATERIALITY GOVERNANCE our people.
AND RISK Our governance controls ensure we HOW Identifying and respond effectively to those matters WE understanding our material that have the potential to cause financial, matters and risks is critical operational and reputational harm to our CREATE DISCOVER PLAN AND in the development and business, while acting ethically and with BUILD SHARED delivery of our strategy.
integrity for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
VALUE For our Material matters People See pages 16-17 Our simplified For our Governance Report OUR INNOVATIVE Organisation Model See pages 72-126 allows our businesses to CORE PROCESSES design structures and roles that provide clear accountability Discovery and appropriate authority Our exploration teams discover mineral deposits to get our work done.
in a safe and responsible way to replenish the resources that underpin our future success.
Technology Model Our strengthened in-house technology and digital capability provide world class, innovative solutions across our assets, supporting the delivery of step-change OPERATING BUSINESS INPUTS operating performance.
Financial mine production plans to Relationships with underpin our future success Operating Model Our businesses strong ensure we provide products our stakeholders both to extend the lives of The application of our Operating Model drives a focus on working capital to our customers around the Working within our social existing mines and to more stable, predictable and higher level of management, productivity world, meeting their specific performance framework, it is provide longer term nearoperating performance, resulting in improved and cost discipline helps to technical and logistical the goal of our operations to asset and greenfield options.
safety, productivity and lower costs.
build and sustain constructive Plant and equipment cash flows.
relationships with our host Other natural resources Project development Our businesses implement communities and countries Know-how It is critical that our businesses local procurement policies Our expertise and robust model for that are based on mutual Our businesses work closely manage all the natural that support suppliers based developing capital projects is respect, transparency with our Technical function and resources used in their in the host communities close and trust.
designed to deliver projects Marketing business to apply processes responsibly, given to our operations making a safely, on time and on budget.
innovative mining methods the finite nature of mineral Ore Reserves and significant socio-economic and technologies to realise resources, scarcity of water Mineral Resources contribution and building even greater value from our and energy sources at some Our exploration teams stronger communities, as well resource base, and optimise of our operations, and input work with our businesses as lowering logistics costs.
to discover mineral deposits in a safe and responsible way to replenish the resources that 08 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report OUTPUTS GROUP PRODUCTION ATTRIBUTABLE FREE Our outputs are the products that meet 1 GROWTH CASH FLOW the growing consumer and other demands of the worlds developed and maturing 6% $3.2 billion economies.
Mining and processing Increase over 2017 activities also result in the unavoidable disturbance of land and seabed, generation TOTAL WATER CO EQUIVALENT 2 WITHDRAWALS EMISSIONS of mineral residue, use of fresh water and Value creation 3 energy, as well as atmospheric emissions Active portfolio management 227 Mm 16.0 Mt and water discharges.
We strive to to continuously improve minimise our footprint through our asset quality and innovative technologies that are competitive position.
designed to support our approach to Growth sustainable mining.
A sequenced range of resource development options provides a number of high return, quick payback growth opportunities to further enhance the asset base.
STAKEHOLDER VALUE As we strive to deliver attractive and sustainable Our Organisation Model ensures we have the right returns to our shareholders, we are acutely aware people in the right roles doing the right value-adding of the potential value creation we can offer to our work.
From the financial, technical, marketing and other diverse range of stakeholders.
Through our expertise provided from the corporate centre, through business activities employing people, paying our entire value chain from mine to market, it is our taxes to governments and procuring from host people that create the sustainable value that all our communities we make a significant and positive stakeholders demand and expect.
contribution to the countries where we operate.
Beyond our direct mining activities, we create and sustain jobs, build infrastructure, support education and help improve healthcare for employees and local communities.
By re-imagining mining, we are MINE PROCESS MOVE MARKET END OF LIFE PLAN improving peoples lives.
INVESTORS SUPPLIERS Across every aspect of our business, we are thinking $1.3 billion $2.
1 billion innovatively about how we work to ensure the safety Total dividends paid Local procurement of our people, enhance our sustainability performance, and proposed expenditure and deliver industry-leading margins and returns.
GOVERNMENTS LOCAL COMMUNITIES Marketing $2.5 billion 125,095 The value from our resources and market positions 2 Taxes borne Jobs created and is optimised by our dedicated Marketing business, driving maintained through appropriate commercial decisions across the value chain enterprise development EMPLOYEES from mine to market including working directly to programmes since 2008 tailor products to our customers specific needs.
$3.5 billion Sustainability 3 Wages and benefits paid The corporate centre drives the sustainability agenda and offers expert advice, and hands-on support, to operations facing complex sustainability challenges, while ensuring our sustainable mining approach is embedded in all business and operating practices.
SAFETY AND HEALTH PRODUCTION HOW WE MEASURE ENVIRONMENT COST THE VALUE WE CREATE SOCIO-POLITICAL FINANCIAL Our seven pillars of value underpin PEOPLE everything we do.
Each pillar has defined Key Performance Indicators KPIs and For our KPIs targets that we set the business and See pages 48-49 against which we measure performance, both financial and non-financial.
1 Pro forma growth in copper equivalent production, excluding disposals and the impact of the stoppage at Minas-Rio.
2 Based on numbers disclosed within the Groups income statement and excludes the impact of certain associates and joint ventures.
3 Includes social security costs of $163 million borne by the Group.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 09
