SAFETY AND HEALTH Antofagasta puts people first and safety is both a top priority and a non-negotiable focal point.
The Group continuously strives to improve its performance in all safety and health matters that could affect its employees, contractors and neighbours.
SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL Regrettably, after 26 months without a fatality, a HEALTH STRATEGY contractor suffered a fatal accident at Los Pelambres inOctober 2018 while working on the wall of the Mauro In 2018 the Group deepened the implementation of its Safety tailings dam.
The tragic loss led to important organisational andHealth Strategy, which is based on four pillars: safety risk lessons which have been incorporated into the Safety and management: health risk management: aligned reporting and Health Strategy.
The strategy defines four goals: zero fatalities, zero occupational illnesses, the development of a resilient The first priority for everyone is to take care of the safety culture, and the automation of hazardous processes.
Safety and and health of all who work for Antofagasta.
Huge progress health performance targets account for 5% of Antofagastas annual has been made but the tragic fatality shows we must performance bonuses to encourage a culture of accident prevention.
continue working to establish a resilient safety culture that ensures fatalities in all the Groups companies are SAFETY RISK MANAGEMENT completely eradicated.
Antofagasta has defined Fatal Risk Standards, of which 15 are applicable across the whole business and seven cover specific tasks Ivn Arriagada in each operation.
The latter were developed in 2018.
Based on these CEO standards, the Groups operating companies implemented critical controls both preventative and mitigating that must be checked prior to any activity.
In 2018 progress was made on ensuring VISIBLE LEADERSHIP compliance with all safety critical controls by conducting a review covering 98% of the Groups accident history.
The challenge in 2019 Antofagasta understands that leadership is a key driver for eliminating will be to establish performance measures for each of these controls.
fatalities, severe injuries and occupational illnesses.
The Executive Committee conducts regular on-site safety and health reviews to HEALTH RISK MANAGEMENT verify that critical controls are correctly applied.
Senior management review and challenge the investigation of high-potential events and Antofagasta has defined ten Occupational Health Standards through recognise employees who display outstanding safe conduct.
Safety which it can identify and control potential occupational health risks, performance is reported weekly to the Executive Committee and with a goal of minimising exposure to hazardous agents or risk monthly to the Board, and the Sustainability and Stakeholder factors.
Medical Surveillance Programmes identify early symptoms Management Committee reviews any serious safety incidents.
that can indicate incipient occupational diseases.
During 2018, existing surveillance programmes were standardised and an occupational AWARENESS AND COMMITMENT health baseline was developed for the entire Group.
In 2019 the Company will focus on implementing engineering controls on potential Raising awareness of the importance of a preventive culture among occupational health risks.
employees and contractor workers is key to achieving their commitment to safety and health.
The Group carries out a variety REPORTING ofactions including training, induction courses, discussions on the causes of accidents, safety meetings and recognition of employees The preventative culture that Antofagasta is working to establish committed to safety, as well as participation in joint safety and isbased on the reporting, follow-up and control of potential accidents.
In 2018 the standardisation of reporting was reinforced, aligning processes of analysis, warnings, improvement projects and corrective Contractors apply the Groups standards and report on their own actions raised by investigations.
In 2019 the focus will be to improve andtheir sub-contractors performance.
The Corporate Guidelines organisational learnings from events and reduce repetition of onSafety and Health for Contractors are essential in ensuring their high-potential incidents.
commitment and providing orientation, training and support, while compliance is closely monitored through on-site audits.
3.2 29% TRIFR 2018 TRIFR decreased compare to 2017 44 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE NUMBER OF FATALITIES In 2018 Antofagasta did not achieve its zero fatalities goal with a 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 fatalaccident at Los Pelambres involving a contractor.
Chilean mining industry 16 14 18 16 27 The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR remained steady Mining division 1 0 1 1 5 at 1.6 and near-miss reporting increased by 56%.
Compliance Transport division 0 0 1 0 0 withSafety and Health standards is audited twice a year at each Group 1 0 2 1 5 site, and 12 on-site visits were made by the Executive Committee.
The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate is the number of accidents with lost time In 2017 the Group began measuring the Total Recordable Injury during the year per million hours worked.
Frequency Rate TRIFR which includes Lost Time Injury incidents 2.
The All Injury Frequency Rate is the total number of accidents during the year per and those requiring medical treatment.
In 2018, the TRIFR was 3.2, million hours worked.
N A denotes that information is not available.
29% lower than the previous year.
Figures restated to include contractors in the transport division.
During the year six workers with occupational diseases were identified, one from Centinela, two from Zaldvar and three from SAFE TRANSPORT FCAB.
Of these cases, five are related to hypoacusis.
The transport division is aware of the potential accident risks arising 1 from cargo transport and has developed a strategy based on action LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR plans focused on improving safety on the railways.
This includes the 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 construction and improvement of pedestrian and vehicle crossings, Chilean mining industry 1.2 1.8 1.8 2.0 2.5 the conducting of emergency drills, and the training and certification Mining division 1.1 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.1 of personnel on safety issues.
The incorporation of new technologies 4 4 has also assisted accident prevention: for example, existing railway Transport division 6.7 7.2 5.4 10.9 10.3 locomotives were replaced by nine state-of-the-art locomotives with Group 1.6 1.5 1.6 2.0 1.7 remote monitoring systems and higher safety standards.
