STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUPPLIERS Suppliers play a fundamental role in Antofagastas ability to operate safely, sustainably and efficiently and the Company ensures they comply with the Groups standards and guidelines.
Suppliers provide a large range of goods and services frommining equipment and energy to fuel and catering.
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY LOCAL SUPPLIERS Around 4,750 suppliers of goods and services form part of Antofagastas supply chain.
A central corporate purchasing team defines and consolidates common procurement practices and Antofagasta seeks to conduct its business in a thriving local procedures, as well as the standards and good practices required environment and requires suppliers to have high standards.
Toachieve this the Group has focused on developing the skills of local companies, to help improve their commercial, financial and Compliance: the Group carries out due diligence on all its human resource capabilities, as well as their productivity and use potential suppliers prior to awarding a contract.
ownership, participation of politically exposed persons PEP, antitrust issues, commercial behaviour, legal and Opportunities for local suppliers: most of Antofagastas labour cases, conflicts of interest and contract risks are suppliershave their headquarters in Santiago.
analysisconductedby the Company in 2018 showed that most of thespending ongoods and services by Centinela, Antucoya and Contracts covering the supply of goods include clauses requiring Zaldvar is throughregional branches of these companies which compliance with Chilean Law 20,393 Prevention of Crimes and UK uselocal employees, infrastructure and resources including laws on bribery UK Bribery Act and modern slavery UK Modern powerplants, ports, manufacturers, distribution centres, repair Slavery Act.
In addition, audits of direct suppliers monitor compliance with labour As part of the local integration strategy, the Groups companies legislation and the Groups rigorous safety and health policy.
In the favourlocal suppliers, both for new projects and at its operations.
case of contracts with direct suppliers in jurisdictions with different In2018, 1,897 local suppliers in the Antofagasta and Coquimbo standards, for example in Asia, on-site audits and due diligence regionssupplied $1,967 million of goods and services to the arecarried out to ensure suppliers compliance with the Groups Group, representing 40% of the Groups suppliers and 61% of standards.
This was the case for China-based suppliers during 2018. totalpurchases.
The identification of economic, environmental, labour and ethical risks Future projects also incorporate local suppliers: for example, at least in the supply chain forms part of the Groups Risk Management Model.
55 companies from Los Vilos and Salamanca have been contracted to These risks are addressed in contracts with Tier 1 suppliers.
work on the construction of the Los Pelambres Expansion Project.
In 2018 nearly 500 suppliers participated in a training session to reinforce their knowledge of Antofagastas policies and practices, including the Groups new Compliance Model.
Fair and transparent tender processes: bidding processes are carried out on an online platform designed to guarantee objective and auditable evaluation and award procedures.
MEETING HIGH STANDARDS Communication and complaints: the Company encourages suppliers In 2018 there were no lawsuits or fines for to raise any issues or concerns regarding its relationship with the incidents in the supply chain.
This is a considerable Company or its contracts through the complaints reporting line as achievement given the Groups large number of well as various other channels of communication and engagement.
suppliers of goods and services of around 4,800companies.
See page 34 for more information 1 4,750 40% $3,244m 61% Suppliers Of local suppliers Total payments Of local purchases from Coquimbo tosuppliers Region and Antofagasta Region 1.
This figure represents total Group purchases through local suppliers from Coquimbo and Antofagasta Regions and has been calculated in accordance with the following definition: local supplier is a supplier company that has facilities in any of the communes of a specific region, and may have its parent company or a branch installed in thisregion.
40 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Supplier development: the Groups operating companies run Local workforce: the hiring of local people is central to the Groups development programmes for local suppliers, many of them within strategy to contribute to local development.
This aim is included in theframework of State programmes.
contracts with third party companies through the inclusion of local employment goals in the contracts performance agreements.
In Antofagastas mining operations in northern Chile continued to use 2018 the Group directly employed 3,480 people from the regions the local procurement programme PAL during the year, and at ofAntofagasta and Coquimbo, equivalent to 54% of its employees.
LosPelambres an online suppliers portal links local suppliers with opportunities offered by existing suppliers.
The Group paid a total of Alliances for local development: a co-operation agreement has been $490 million to SMEs in 2018, with average payment times of 25days.
signed between Los Pelambres and the Association of Traders and Companies of Salamanca.
Monthly meetings are held to ensure that Collaborative innovation: the mining division is part of the local businesses get the opportunity to supply Los Pelambres and the ExpandeProject, an open innovation programme that promotes the Expansion Project.
development of high-potential solutions from technology companies and connects them with challenges faced by the mining industry.
The programme seeks to become a fundamental pillar for the development of technology providers.
ANTOFAGASTA MINING CLUSTER EMPLOYABILITY PROGRAMME In 2018 Antofagasta joined the mining cluster, an The aim is to develop skills and job qualifications alliance that seeks to strengthen employability, human among local people, through education training, capital and innovation in northern Chile.
It is the result certification and qualification, technical training, of joint work between various local players and mining internships and job advice and information companies operating in the area.
employment portal, promotion of internships, working with contractor companies.
In 2018 the results were measured: participants insertion in the labour market improved by 18% and salary levels increased by 35%.
