STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CUSTOMERS The Groups business model is underpinned by relationships with stakeholders at local, regional, national and international levels.
Successful management of these relationships contributes to the long-term success of the Group.
deduction to reflect the cost of converting molybdenum sulphide CUSTOMERS concentrate into molybdenum oxide.
Most copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual contracts or longer-term framework agreements, with sales volumes agreed Across the industry, neither copper producers nor consumers tend for the coming year.
Gold and silver is contained in the copper to make annual commitments for 100% of their respective sales or concentrates and is therefore part of copper concentrates sales.
purchases, and normally retain a portion to be sold or purchased on the spot market during the year.
Most sales are to industrial customers who further process the copper into more added value products: smelters, in the case of In line with industry practice, sales agreements generally provide copper concentrate production, and copper fabricators in the case forprovisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing ofcathode production.
The Group builds long-term relationships with basedon the average market price in the month in which settlement these key customers while ensuring customer diversification.
Group also maintains relationships with trading companies that For copper concentrates, the final price remains open until settlement participate in shorter-term sales agreements, or in the spot market.
occurs, on average four months from the shipment month.
Over 80% of the Groups mining sales are under contracts of a year Settlement for the gold and silver contained in the copper or longer and metals sales pricing is generally based on prevailing concentrates occurs approximately one month after shipment.
Coppercathode sales remain open for an average of one month fromthe month of shipment.
Settlement for copper in concentrate STRUCTURE OF SALES CONTRACTS sales is later than for copper cathode sales, as copper in concentrate Typically, the Groups sales contracts set out the annual volumes requires more processing to produce refined copper for sale.
to besupplied and the main terms for the sale of each payable metal, Molybdenum sales generally remain open for two or three months with the pricing of the contained copper in line with LME prices.
after the month of shipment.
In the case of concentrates, a deduction is made from LME prices toreflect TC RCs, the smelting and refining costs necessary to process the concentrate into refined copper.
These TC RCs are typically determined annually in line with market developments and STRUCTURE OF SALES CONTRACTS the parties assessments of the copper concentrate market at the time of the negotiation of the terms.
The majority of the Groups sales are to industrial customers, who refine or further process the In the case of copper cathode transactions, a premium, or in some copper concentrate and cathodes.
cases a discount, on the LME price is negotiated to reflect differences in quality, logistics and financing compared with the metal exchanges Most sales are made under long-term framework standard copper contract specifications.
agreements or annual contracts with sales volumes agreed for the following year.
Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts are made under medium and long-term framework agreements, with pricing usually based on Platts average prices for Technical Molybdenum Oxide with a 83% 65% Of revenue from Of sales to Asia copper Pacific 42 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Copper 83% Molybdenum 7% Gold 5% Transport 4% TURNOVER BY LOCATION OF CUSTOMER AND PRODUCTS Silver 1% Europe 24% North America 4% Asia Pacific 65% South America 7% antofagasta.
