BUSINESS MODEL THE MINING LIFECYCLE CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE CREATING VALUE INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE Mining is a long-term business and timescales canrun into decades.
The period from initial exploration to the start of production canexceed ten years and, depending on the nature of the project and the market conditions, it may take Resources Chile Los Pelambres Los Pelambres morethan five years of Expansion Phase 2 Expansion Phase 1 operation to recoup the Relationships International initialinvestment.
Centinela Second Where possible, mines exploit Concentrator higher-grade areas towards the start of the mine life in Zaldvar Chloride order to maximise returns.
Leach Project As a result, average ore grades may decline over Twin Metals Minnesota time, with production volumes decreasing along The Groups mining To ensure the sustainability Effective project evaluation Once a project has been with revenue.
operations depend on a of its mining business in the and design maximise value approved by the Board, range of key inputs such as long term, the Group must atthis stage of the mining construction begins.
energy, water, labour, acid focus on expanding its cycle.
The Groups wealth This stage requires and fuel.
The management of mineral resource base.
ofexperience in both areas significant input of capital these inputs has a significant helps to make the best The Group undertakes andresources, and effective impact on operating costs useofmineral deposits.
exploration activities in Chile project management and and the sustainability of TheGroup integrates and abroad, with particular cost control to maximise mining operations, and sustainability criteria into focus on the Americas.
ensuring the long-term thedesign process and Exploration programmes supply of key inputs is a project evaluation phase, The Group has a outside Chile are generally vitalpart of the business.
developing innovative co-operative approach carried out in partnership solutions for challenges todeveloping projects.
See page 56 for with other companies, in suchas water availability, more information Typically, after the order to benefit from long-term energy supply feasibilitystage and before theirlocal knowledge andcommunity relations.
theGroup seeks a development partner, 5 years generating an immediate 3-5 years cash return, diversifying See pages 70 to 72 for See page 73 for riskand providing broader more information more information accesstofunding, while maintainingoperating controlof the project.
3-5 years See pages 70 to 72 for more information 54 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORE OPERATIONS CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING MINE CLOSURE OUTPUTS Los Pelambres Copper Centinela Molybdenum Antucoya Gold Zaldvar Silver The Groups four The Group mines both The marketing team builds During the operation of The Groups mining operationsin Chile are copper sulphide and copper long-term relationships with amine, its impact on operations create significant LosPelambres, Centinela, oxide ores, which require the smelters and fabricators theenvironment and the economic and social Antucoya and Zaldvar.
different processing routes: who purchase the Groups neighbouring communities valuefora wide range products, with approximately iscarefully managed.
Local The world-class Los LOS PELAMBRES AND 65% of output by value going theend of its life, a mine communities benefit from Pelambres and Centinela CENTINELA CONCENTRATES to Asian markets.
mustbeclosed and its jobcreation and improved mining districts have long-life surroundings restored infrastructure, while the Mined sulphide ore is milled copper mining operations As well as copper, totheir originalstate.
Chilean government and to reduce its size before with large mineral resources LosPelambres and Centinela localmunicipalities receive passing to flotation cells and produce significant produce significant volumes A closure plan for each mine tax payments androyalties.
where it is upgraded to volumes of gold, silver and of gold, molybdenum is maintained and updated aconcentrate containing molybdenum as by-products.
throughout its life to ensure There are also benefits to 2535% copper.
This All of the Groups mines are Goldand silver are compliance with the latest society in general, with the concentrate is then shipped open pit operations.
soldforindustrial and regulations and provide for copper the Group produces to a smelter operated by a electronic applications asustainable closure.
being used across many Safety and health are key third party and converted to .
sectors, from industrial to See page 49 for elements of operating copper metal.
Molybdenum is used to medical, and increasingly more information efficiency and remain a top produce steel alloys.
inrenewable and green CENTINELA CATHODES, priority for the Board and technologies.
ANTUCOYA AND ZALDVAR Most copper and molybdenum sales are The copper and by-products Mined oxide ore, sometimes madeunder annual from the Groups mines go combined with leachable 20 years contractsor longer-term on to be further processed sulphide ore, is crushed, framework agreements.
for use in end markets, piled into heaps and then See pages 62 to 67 for Sales volumes are agreed including property, power, leached with sulphuric acid, more information each year, which electronics, transport and producing a copper solution.
This solution is then See page 42 for See pages 76 to 81 for put through a solvent more information more information extraction and electrowinning SX-EW plant to produce copper cathodes, which aresold to fabricators aroundthe world.
See pages 62 to 67 for more information antofagasta.
