GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT When the preference shares were issued, they carried one vote on DIRECTORS apoll at any general meeting of the Company in parity with ordinary Directors who have served during the year and summaries of current shares in issue at that time.
The number of ordinary shares in issue Directors key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate has increased since then through stock splits and bonus issues and Governance Report on pages 98 to 101. because the preference shares were not split at the same time as theordinary shares, in order to maintain proportionate voting rights POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS attaching to the preference shares, the voting rights attaching to There have been no post-balance sheet events.
preference shares have increased to 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on Details of the Companys policies on financial risk management are theirvoting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the set out in Note 24 to the financial statements.
Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS law and regulation including, in particular, following a failure to provide the Company with information about interests in shares as The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from $1,830.8 required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of million in 2017 to $1,252.7 million in 2018. any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may The Board has recommended a final dividend of 37 cents per ordinary result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
An interim dividend of 6.8 cents was paid With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, on 5 October 2018 2017 interim dividend 10.3 cents.
This gives theCompany is governed by, and has regard to, its Articles of total dividends per share proposed in relation to 2018 of 43.8 cents Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Companies 2017 50.9 cents and a total dividend amount in relation to 2018 Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may of$431.8 million 2017 $501.8 million.
beamended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend significant agreements in place that take effect, alter or terminate of 5% per annum.
The preference shares are classified within upon a change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements borrowings and preference dividends are included within finance costs.
in place between the Company and its Directors or employees that The total cost of dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as provide for compensation for loss of office resulting from a change an expense in the income statement was $0.1 million 2017 $0.1 million.
of control of the Company.
Further information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial The percentages of the total nominal share capital of the Company Review on page 80 and in Note 13 to the financial statements.
represented by each class of share are: POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Nominal value Percentage Class Number in issue per share of capital The Group did not make political donations during the year ended Ordinary shares 985,865,695 5p 96.10% 31 December 2018 2017 nil.
of 5p each AUDITOR Preference shares 2,000,000 1 3.90% The Companys auditor,  LLP, has indicated of 1.00 each its willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking its reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES ANDAUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWNSHARES DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS At the 2018 AGM, held on 23 May 2018, authority was given to the The Directors in office at the date of this report have each Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to confirmed that: amaximum amount equivalent to two-thirds of the ordinary shares in so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information issue of which one-third may only be offered by way of rights issue.
of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and This authority expires on the date of this years AGM, scheduled to be held on 22 May 2019.
No shares have been issued as at the date of they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as this report or during the year.
The Directors propose to seek renewal Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit of this authority at this years AGM.
information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
A further special resolution passed at the 2018 AGM granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, CAPITAL STRUCTURE without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of this years AGM Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital are shown andthe Directors will seek to renew this authority on similar terms in Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of byway of two separate resolutions, in line with the Investment ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary Associations guidance and the Pre-Emption Groups Statement share carries one vote at any general meeting of the Company.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 22 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
co. uk 137 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company was also authorised by a shareholders resolution SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS passed at the 2018 AGM to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary As at 31 December 2018 and 18 March 2019, the following significant share capital.
Any shares bought back may be held as treasury shares holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued Preference and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at this years Ordinary share share Total share AGM and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will Shareholder capital % capital % capital % beproposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during 1.
Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND INDEMNITIES 3.
Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of bothcontrolled by the E. Abaroa Foundation Abaroa, in which the Company as at 31 December 2018, are given in the Directors membersof the Luksic family are interested.
As explained in Note 35 Remuneration Report.
No Director had any material interest in a to the financial statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate contract of significance other than a service contract see page 124 Parent Company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the Severe Studere Foundation that, in turn, is controlled by the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
aregranted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities EXPLORATION AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT personally incurred as a result of their office.
The Company also maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy The Groups subsidiaries carry out exploration and research and throughout the financial year.
A new policy has been entered into development activities that are necessary to support and expand the for the current financial year.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Each year, the Directors complete a form identifying interests The Corporate Governance Report on pages 84 to 136, the Statement that may constitute a conflict of interest including, for example, of Directors Responsibilities on page 139 and Note 24 to the financial directorships in other companies.
Directors are also required to statements are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
notify the Company during the year of any relevant changes in Other information can be found in the following sections of the those positions or situations.
Strategic Report: The Board, with assistance from the Nomination and Governance Location in Committee, considers the potential and actual conflict situations and Strategic Report decides in relation to each situation the steps, if any, which need to Future developments in the business Pages 56 to 75 betaken to manage it.
of the Group The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for Viability and going concern statement Page 22 managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises, and the Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Pages 56 to 75 monitoring, and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential Employee consultation Pages 36 to 37 conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Greenhouse gas emissions Page 48 Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the following pages of the Annual Report: Location in Annual Report Statement of interest capitalised by the See Notes 5, 9 and 15 to Group LR 9.8.
4 1 the financial statements on pages 160 to 164, 169 and 173 and 174.
4 14 Page 91 By order of the Board Julian Anderson Company Secretary 18 March 2018 138 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assessthe Companys position and performance, business model andstrategy.
TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Corporate Governance Report, confirms that to the best of his or theDirectors Remuneration Report and the financial statements her knowledge: inaccordance with the applicable law and regulations.
the Parent Company financial statements, which have been Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, the Group financial statements in accordance with International comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance financial position and profit of the Company, with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, including the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair FRS 101.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Group, and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these of the development and performance of the business and the financial statements, the Directors are required to: position of the Group, together with a description of the principal select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently risks and uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent By order of the Board state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Jean-Paul Luksic Ollie Oliveira explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements Chairman Senior Independent Director prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 18 March 2019 in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
co. uk 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THIS SECTION Independent auditorsreport 141 Consolidated incomestatement 147 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 148 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 148 Consolidated balancesheet 149 Consolidated cash flow statement 150 Notes to the financialstatements 151 Parent company financial statements 198 OTHER INFORMATION Five-year summary 205 Production statistics 207 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates 208 Glossary and definitions 218 Shareholder information 223 Directors and advisers IBC 140 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS antofagasta.
