ELECTRIC TRANSPORT GETS GREEN LIGHT ELECTRIFICATION OF TRANSPORT IS EXPECTED TO TAKE OFF IN THE NEXT DECADE PROVIDING A SIGNIFICANT BOOST TO COPPER DEMAND.
Electric vehicles have made rapid gains in recent years.
This is good news for copper.
Electric vehicles contain Their sales have surged in China, the US and Europe up to almost four times the amount of copper as and the question now is not if but when they will conventional ones owing to its use in batteries, outnumber conventional petrol and diesel cars.
high-voltage wiring, windings and rotors.
Charging stations will also boost demand.
Cheaper and better batteries have made electric vehicles more affordable and increased the distance The number of electric vehicles on the road is they can be driven before being recharged.
Running expectedto soar from three million in 2017 to 27million costs are already attractive in countries with low by 2027, according to the International Copper electricity prices compared to fuel.
This will raise copper demand inelectric mean less maintenance.
vehicles from 185,000 tonnes to 1.74 million tonnes per year over the same period.
Faster than expected uptake of electric vehicles is also being driven by stricter environmental standards to The all-out advent of electric vehicles is now inevitable.
restrict CO emissions and combat harmful air pollution Near-term progress may be hampered by insufficient 2 in cities.
Governments are increasingly setting targets fast-charging stations and lack of product choice but to phase out or ban the sale of conventional cars and cleaner, quieter cities are on the horizon.
giving incentives to car buyers to go green.
Electric bus fleets are being pioneered in China.
BEV: Battery electric vehicle HEV: Hybrid electric vehicle PHEV: Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle 16 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 11% Transport currently accounts for about 11% of annual copper consumption, or theequivalent of 6.9 million tonnes.
This share is expected to rise to 18% by 2040 due to the electrification of transport.
20% Electric vehicle battery costs fell by an average of 20% per annum between 2010 and 2017.
They are expected to halve by 2025 making the unit cost of electric cars competitive with conventional vehicles.
NORWAY: THE POSTER CHILD Around 50% of Norways new carsales were electric or hybrids in2018, driven by government policy.
Electric cars are exempt from import taxes, VAT and road taxes, pay lower road tolls and cityparking fees, and can cross fjordsby ferry for free.
Another incentive is the relatively low costof electricity in Norway duetocheap hydropower making electric vehicles some of the leastpolluting in the world.
