PROJECTS COMMITTEE REPORT The Projects Committee oversees the full project lifecycle, from concept to startof operations, carefully assessing, through robust challenge, investment proposalsprior to submission tothe Board.
Ollie Oliveira, Chair 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, the Vice President of attended Projects, the Projects Finance Manager and the Company Ollie Oliveira Chair 7 7 Secretary.
Tim Baker 7 7 Sessions were also regularly attended by Directors who are not 1 Jorge Bande 6 7 Committee members, including the Chairman of the Board.
Ramn Jara 7 7 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Jorge Bande was unable to attend one meeting held at short notice due to prior commitments.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Projects Committee reviews all aspects of projects to The Committee adds an important level of governance and besubmitted for Board approval, highlighting key matters control to the evaluation of the Groups projects and plays a throughout the project development lifecycle for the Boards keyrole in providing the Board with additional overview of the consideration and making recommendations to management to projects portfolio.
This includes overview of the establishment ensure that all projects submitted to the Board are aligned with ofproject development guidelines, which draw from best the Groups strategy and risk appetite.
practice, industry experience and lessons learned from otherGroup projects.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Policies and commitments Project reviews Lessons learned from completed projects Reviewed the Groups projects portfolio, Reviewed the Los Pelambres Expansion Reviewed Antucoyas dust control including budgets and schedules.
project, including progress in its statusand work plan.
Reviewed project development Reviewed lessons learned from the guidelines.
Reviewed the Centinela Second Encuentro Oxides project.
Concentrator project and an alternative Reviewed the Committees terms Reviewed lessons learned from the plan to expand the existing concentrator.
Reviewed Zaldvars Sulphide Reviewed lessons learned from the Leachingproject.
Reviewed a sustaining capital expenditure project for Centinelas tailings deposit.
Reviewed the Twin Metals Minnesota project pre-feasibility study.
A full description of the Groups growth projects and opportunities can be found on pages 70 to 72 116 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE THOROUGH PROJECT REVIEW The Committee supports the Board by ensuring that project development deliberations follow approved guidelines and that project execution decisions create value for the Company.
WHAT IS THE PROJECTS COMMITTEES APPROVAL AUTHORITY?
The Committee continued monitoring Antucoyas dust control statusand work plan.
The Committee is not responsible for approving projects that is forthe Board to decide.
Our role is to assist the Board by ensuring ZALDVAR that projects follow a standard, structured process with consistent The Committee reviewed Zaldvars sulphide leaching project.
analysis, execution and evaluation practices.
The Committee invitesmanagement to consider different perspectives, ideas and TWIN METALS improvements to enhance the value of the Groups projects, enabling The Committee reviewed the pre-feasibility study for the Twin Metals a focused discussion once the project is presented to the Board.
Minnesota project and the proposed work plan and budget for 2019.
WHAT TOOLS DOES THE COMMITTEE USE?
WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES PRIORITIES IN 2019?
The Committee provides guidance to each project manager, from To oversee progression of the Los Pelambres and Centinela theearly stages of project planning through to completion, to ensure expansion projects.
that policies, strategies and the Groups standard ADS implementation To oversee submission of the Mine Plan of Operations MPO framework are applied.
ADS is a project management system whose processes and practices To monitor the progression of projects at Zaldvar and the are widely used in the mining industry.
ADS defines standards and transport division.
common criteria, including governance by a steering committee, To continue to review and further enhance the Groups ADS functional quality assurance reviews and risk management.
framework and project development guidelines.
WHAT WERE THE COMMITTEES KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018?
Ollie Oliveira LOS PELAMBRES Chair of the Projects Committee The Committee monitored various aspects of the Los Pelambres Expansion Project, including the functional quality assurance review, Environmental Impact Assessment, technical permitting matters, detailed engineering, vendor and contracting strategy, project execution plan and co-ordination with the community relations team.
These activities aided the Board in its approval of the construction ofthe Los Pelambres Expansion project, as explained in more detail on pages 70 to 72 and 96.
CENTINELA The Committee reviewed progress on the Centinela Second Concentrator projects feasibility study.
The Committee reviewed a scoping study of a lower-cost alternative expansion plan for Centinela, to expand the existing concentrator and optimise the use of the current tailings deposit, which did not prove attractive in comparison with the Second Concentrator project.
The Committee reviewed lessons learned from the Encuentro Oxides and Molybdenum Plant projects.
co. uk 117 REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION: REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is focused onensuring that the Groups incentives and talent management initiatives promote and ensure our long-term sustainable success as an international mining company based in Chile.
Tim Baker, Chair 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, the Vice President attended of Human Resources and the Company Secretary.
1 Tim Baker Chair 6 6 At least one Committee member serves on each of the other 2 Vivianne Blanlot 5 6 Board Committees which allows the Committee to take into 1 Francisca Castro 6 6 account strategic priorities and the views of all stakeholders in its deliberations.
Francisca Castro has been appointed Chair with effect from 1 May 2019.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker will continue to serve on the Committee following this change.
Vivianne Blanlot was unable to attend one meeting during the year for All Committee members are independent.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee ensures Executive Committee members.
No Director, nor the CEO, that the Groups remuneration arrangements support the effective areinvolved in setting his or her own remuneration.
implementation of the Groups strategy and enable the The Committee actively participates in the Groups talent recruitment, motivation, reward and retention of talent.
management strategy, including the review, consideration and The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration for implementation of succession plans for members of the Executive the Chairman, Directors and the CEO and for monitoring the Committee excluding the CEO.
compensation strategy, level, structure and outcomes for KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Directors Human Resources Governance Executive remuneration remuneration and policy Monitored UK Evaluated Chairman, Evaluated the CEOs performance and determined the variable Reviewed the 2018 Human corporate Director and Committee compensation payable to him under the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan.
governance fees and adjusted fees Reviewed LTIP eligibility, participants andcriteria and approved Reviewed and approved reforms relating to paid to Committee the grant of the 2018 awards.
implementation of the diversity remuneration and members.
Reviewed performance for LTIP awards granted in 2015 and succession Reviewed and adjusted approved vesting level.
Ramn Jaras services remuneration analysis.
Reviewed Group performance against the 2017 Annual Bonus Reviewed feedback contract with Antofagasta Plan performance metrics and reviewed the metrics to apply to Reviewed the results of the from shareholders Minerals SA.
collective bargaining negotiations on the Groups Reviewed the 2017 at Los Pelambres and Centinela.
remuneration Reviewed and approved the individual performance of Executive Directors Remuneration arrangements in Committee members under the 2017 Annual BonusPlan.
Reviewed compensation across Report prior to its advance of the the Group to ensure it remains Reviewed proposed LTIP and Annual Bonus Plan structures for approval by the Board 2019 AGM.
competitive, motivating and 2019, and on the basis of the significant changes implemented and subsequent approval appropriately aligned with the in 2017, agreed that no further changes, other than using Total Reviewed the by shareholders at the Groups strategy, vision and Incident Recordable Frequency Rate in place of Lost Time Committees terms 2018 AGM.
Frequency Rate for the 2019 Annual Bonus Plan.
Talent management and succession planning Reviewed the Groups talent management strategy and succession plans Approved the implementation of succession plans and revisions to the for members of the Executive Committee excluding the CEO.
composition of the Executive Committee and the appointment of new directors in the Groups operating companies.
118 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT The Committee has broad oversight of the Groups incentives and talent management initiatives.
Our broader workforce also includes some 15,000 contractors and Dear Shareholders, the Groups policy is to ensure that the minimum wage for services As set out in the Chairmans and CEOs introductory letters and provided by employees and contractors is some 41% above the legal theGroups performance highlights on the opening pages of this minimum wage.
We require bank guarantees for all service contracts Annual Report, 2018 was a good year for the Group.
Our operating to guarantee the contractors obligations towards their employees performance was in line with guidance, a key project milestone was during the term of the contract and services provided under these achieved with the approval of construction of the Los Pelambres service contracts are audited regularly by an independent third party Expansion project and we made significant progress on a number to ensure that local labour laws and other conditions are being ofcultural and talent management initiatives which are described in complied with.
The Committee has been monitoring the UK corporate governance Sadly, as reported in the Chairmans letter, one of our contractors reforms that were finalised during 2018 and we will report against suffered a fatal accident at Los Pelambres in October.
Responsibility those new requirements that apply to us in the 2019 Annual Report.
for safety and health is one of the Companys core values and in The principles of the Code and the purpose behind these reforms, 2016, the Committee recommended the introduction of an automatic andothers in recent years, are carefully reviewed and discussed by 15% adjustment to the Groups performance score under the Annual the Committee and the Board.
Where specific regulations or Code Bonus Plan downwards if there is a fatality during the year and principles do not apply to us, we typically consider whether it would upwards if there are no fatalities during the year to further align the be helpful for additional information to be provided to the Committee Groups incentives with this core value and our goal of zero fatalities.
to consider how the purpose behind them might influence its views The Committee therefore endorsed the automatic 15% downward and perspectives.
For example, although the Group has fewer than adjustment for the Group performance score under the 2018 ten employees in the UK, the Committee received gender pay gap AnnualBonus Plan.
The Committee also continues to support the information for all of the mining divisions employees during 2018.
Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee and the Board This showed the pay gap information across all levels of the in their oversight of the performance of the Groups safety and health Groupsmining operating companies and the Committee used the risk management processes through incentives in the Groups Annual findings to identify and discuss initiatives that should be included in Bonus Plan that relate specifically to safety and health performance.
the diversity and inclusion programme to encourage higher levels offemale participation generally, but specifically at the Groups AREAS OF FOCUS FOR THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 miningoperations.
As noted by the Chairman on page 89, the Committee oversaw As in previous years, although our CEO is not a Director, we significant strategic initiatives during the year which included the voluntarily disclose his remuneration as if he were and provide approval and implementation of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion detailson the Groups executive pay structures to allow shareholders Programme and associated updates to the Groups charter of values to understand how these structures support strategy and promote to support a more inclusive culture.
Strong leadership from the Board long-term sustainable success.
and the Committee is required to ensure that our inclusive culture andvalues are entrenched in the actions of all of our employees and EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION the wider workforce.
We all benefit from the increased levels of Awards under both the LTIP and the Annual Bonus Plan are productivity, innovation and employee engagement that come with subjecttofinancial and non-financial performance metrics.
The amore diverse and inclusive workplace.
Metrics for the design non-financial metrics measure the development of important projects andimplementation of the diversity and inclusion programme were and exploration activities that are essential for future mining activities.
included in the Groups 2018 Annual Bonus Plan and some of the specific Other metrics relate to safety, people and environmental and social activities that were undertaken in 2018 are highlighted in theChairmans targets, which ensure that we act in a way that preserves our social introduction to the Governance section on page 88 and more generally on licence to operate and takes into account the interests of all of the page 36.
I am pleased to report that metrics for this programme have Groups stakeholders.
The Committee reviews these metrics at the again been included in the 2019 Annual Bonus Plan.
beginning of the year and, if necessary, recommends amendments As a Committee, we monitor the Groups relationships with unions before recommending the metrics to the Board for approval.
and labour negotiations that take place on a regular basis, including The Groups performance score for 2018 under the Annual Bonus those during 2018 at Los Pelambres and the transport division.
We Plan, which forms the basis for calculating 70% of the CEOs and were pleased that the negotiations in 2018 once again concluded Executive Committees annual bonus, was 100.2, within a range without a strike and we continue to foster open and collaborative of90 Threshold to 110 Maximum.
This score includes the 15% dialogue with our workforce.
With 71% of the Groups employees downwards adjustment for the fatality described above.
A full represented by labour unions, and the regular dialogue that takes breakdown of performance against each metric is set out on page129.
place between the unions and senior management throughout the year rather than only at the time of negotiations, the concerns As noted in the 2017 Annual Report, at the beginning of 2018 the Board andperspectives of our employees are well represented before the and the Committee each carefully considered the pay arrangements Committee and the Board.
During 2018 the Group provided training for Ivn Arriagada, taking into account individual and Group tostaff responsible for labour negotiations and union representatives performance, the Groups strategy and packages available to market to further upgrade and foster our labour relations.
peers both internationally and in Chile.
The findings showed that all antofagasta.
co. uk 119 REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED elements of the CEOs remuneration package were significantly below REVIEW OF NON-EXECUTIVE those in the FTSE 100 and international mining markets, both of which DIRECTOR AND COMMITTEE FEES are considered to be talent markets for our CEO.
The decision was Basic fee levels for Non-Executive Directors have remained taken to increase his base salary by 10% and his target and maximum unchanged since 2012 and this continued for the base fee in 2018. annual bonus to 67% from 50% and 133% from 100% of base salary, However, as indicated in the 2017 Annual Report, from 1 April 2018, respectively.
The Committee also granted LTIP awards to Ivn Arriagada there was a $5,000 per annum increase in all Board Committee equal to 325% of base salary in 2018 in light of this positioning versus Chairmans fees and a $2,000 per annum increase in all Board the international market and to retain his excellent services for the future.
Committee members fees in recognition of the considerable The Committee once again considered the pay arrangements for Ivn additional time commitments and responsibilities attached to these Arriagada in 2019 versus international and local Chilean peer roles, which have grown in recent years.
companies and in light of this review, a decision was taken to increase As reported in the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee and the Board his target and maximum annual bonus to 100% from 67% and 200% also reviewed the fee payable and time commitments under Ramn from 133% of base salary, respectively in 2019.
The Committee Jaras service contract, which resulted in an exceptional 8% increase expects to grant LTIP awards to Ivn Arriagada equal to 200% of his to the hourly rate for services under that contract with effect from base salary in 2019.
The total remuneration awarded for 2018 and the 1January 2018.
This contract was last reviewed in 2011 and the total remuneration for the lead executive in the Group for the past ten adjustments bring his hourly rate into line with the market and reflect years is shown on pages 126 and 127. the time Ramn Jara commits to the Group under this contract.
The Committee carefully considered a number of factors when setting These adjustments are in accordance with the Directors Ivn Arriagadas remuneration below the level of his predecessor at Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the the time of his appointment in 2016, including broader market conditions 2017AGM and further details of which are set out within the and the opportunity to increase his remuneration at a later time if his Directors Remuneration Report on page 122. performance warranted it.
The Board and the Committee were pleased No change is expected to be made to the pay arrangements for to recognise Ivn Arriagadas performance through this increase, which Directors in 2019. brings his total remuneration package into closer alignment with international peers, albeit still towards the lower end of market practice.
KEY OBJECTIVES FOR THE COMMITTEE IN 2019 TALENT MANAGEMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING As announced in November last year, Francisca Castro, who has served as an independent Non-Executive Director since 2016, will The Committee dedicated a significant amount of time and effort take over as Chair of the Committee from 1 May 2019.
Francisca first towards reviewing the Groups talent management and succession joined the Committee at the beginning of 2017 and has contributed plans during the year.
Mining is cyclical and our employees work enormously over that time.
I will continue to serve on the Committee inastrong and competitive mining jurisdiction.
The work that the and look forward to continuing to support the Group in this new role.
Committee has put into talent management and succession planning in recent years has allowed us to develop common standards across The Committee welcomes the UK corporate governance reforms the Groups operations, to promote internally, to develop career paths published in 2018.
Supporting strategy, creating long-term value and within the organisation and to identify and retain key talent.
independent judgement are already at the core of our approach to remuneration and during the year the Committee will continue to The Committee is responsible for reviewing, monitoring and identify areas where the Groups remuneration arrangements can recommending the talent management strategy for the Groups senior bestrengthened.
This includes assessing any changes in compensation policies across the Group that may have a significant long-term As well as the periodic annual activities of the Committee, the impact on labour costs and succession plans, as well as overseeing Committee will also continue to oversee the implementation of the the Groups compensation and talent management strategies.
diversity and inclusion programme and the progression of our talent management and succession planning activities in 2019.
These areas In 2018 the Committee reviewed and updated succession plans of focus are essential to our long-term continued success.
for the Executive Committee excluding the CEO and the General Managers of each of the Groups operating companies.
This exercise Shareholders are invited to vote on the 2018 Directors Remuneration involved identifying the individuals within the Groups talent pool Report at the 2019 AGM and we trust that there will continue to be thatform part of these succession plans and identifying their strong support for the Groups pay arrangements.
This ensures that talented individuals are available at each stage of the pipeline in the future or in the case of unexpected departures.
Tim Baker Chair of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee had no other connection with the Company.
Willis Towers ARRANGEMENTS IN PLACE WITH ADVISERS Watsons fees for this work were charged in accordance with During the year, the Committee reappointed remuneration normal billing practices and amounted to 95,837. consultants Willis Towers Watson to provide advice to the Committee on compensation benchmarking, regulatory and The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman, the corporate governance developments and market practice.
This CEO, the Vice President of Human Resources and the Company reappointment was based on the Committees satisfaction with Secretary during 2018, none of whom participated in discussions thequality of advice received in previous years.
relating to their own remuneration.
Willis Towers Watson is an independent global professional The Committee Chairman and the Committee as a whole regularly services firm that is a signatory to, and adheres to, the Code speak with advisers without management present, to provide a of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
This can be found forum for open discussion and the sharing of views and opinions at www.
Additionally, part of each Committee meeting is held without management present to ensure that The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Willis individual views or areas of concern can be debated between Towers Watson in 2018 was objective and independent, that no Committee members.
conflict of interest arose as a result of these services and that it 120 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018
