VALUE CREATION VALUE CREATION Mining and its associated activities are well placed to have a positive impact on the industrys different stakeholders, especially host communities and mining regions.
Antofagasta is always looking for new ways to contribute to the development of amore innovative, sustainable and inclusive mining industry, which allows it to adaptto challenges and generate a significant and lasting positive impact.
Antofagasta believes that the development of innovative, inclusive develop a Human Rights Policy and action plan.
The Company has andsustainable mining practices requires it to deal with significant also extended its Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, first introduced challenges and assume leadership roles in providing solutions that in2017, to all of its operations.
deliver value to its different stakeholders.
See page 36 for more information CHALLENGES AND SOLUTIONS RESISTANCE TO NEW PROJECTS Antofagasta is seeking solutions to technical, operational and socioAND GREATER SOCIETALDEMANDS environmental challenges using the experience, acquired learnings, REGARDING THE REAL CONTRIBUTION innovation, and the diversity and wealth of knowledge of its workforce.
OF MINING TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT.
Among the most important challenges are: These are undoubtedly the challenges that have gained most prominence in recent years.
At Antofagasta, collaborative, trackable, PROVIDING A comprehensive and transparent dialogue with members of host SAFE WORKPLACE communities has been critical in moving the relationship from one ofcompetition to one of coexistence.
This has allowed the Company This is Antofagastas main challenge, as many of its activities and local people to prepare together long-term, shared development are considered hazardous and can have serious consequences.
plans that have a positive impact for all parties.
As part of this process The Group continues to strengthen the execution of its Safety and Antofagasta launched its Social Management Model in 2018 Health Strategy, efficiently manage safety and health risks, improve whichstandardises the way the Group engages with communities.
incident reporting and foster visible leadership at its operations.
Thisallows it to monitor the timely and correct implementation of socialcommitments, projects and programmes, while aligning See page 44 for more information itsmanagement of their impact and socio-environmental risk.
In addition, the Group seeks to align its environmental and social ADAPTING TO commitments with the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs CLIMATE CHANGE and address local problems in ways that contribute in a tangible way to achieving these goals.
Antofagasta has adopted a learning-oriented approach to tackle this These challenges are compounded by economic and operational new scenario, in which one of the biggest challenges is water scarcity.
challenges, such as the volatility of the copper market, uncertainty The Group is committed to using sea water for any new water resource about the world economy and international trade, and the requirements, such as the Los Pelambres Expansion Project where a deterioration in the quality of mineral deposits owing to lower desalination plant is being built as an integral part of the project.
grades, harder rock or geological issues.
See page 47 for more information See page 38 for more information SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES The Groups Sustainability Policy is structured around five pillars: People, Financial Performance, Environmental Management, SocialDevelopment and Transparency, and Corporate Governance.
In addition, in 2018 Antofagasta set its first carbon reduction target The Policy provides the framework for Antofagastas constant toreduce forecast CO emissions over the period 2018 to 2022 by 2 effortsto mine in a more innovative, sustainable and inclusive way.
This goal will mainly be achieved through energy efficiency measures and incorporating non-conventional renewable At Antofagasta, the safety and health of its employees and energy into its processes.
The Group is constantly improving its environmental performance, contributing to the social development of the areas in which it operates and maintaining open and IMPLEMENTING A RESPECTFUL, transparent communication with all its stakeholders.
DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE WORK CULTURE The Groups sustainability priorities are based on its values, its main risks and opportunities, and its stakeholders key concerns and Another challenge is for Antofagasta to review its activities impacts expectations, all of which are reviewed frequently by the Board and over its people employees, communities, contractors.
In 2018 the the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
Company began a due diligence to provide a baseline on which to 50 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018
