Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL OUR PURPOSE We believe that consumers across the globe should have access to the products and services they need, at a fair price.
We drive this forward by helping our customers to excel across design, marketing and sales in the digital economy.
OUR PLATFORM WHAT WE DO REVENUE STREAMS OUTCOMES REVENUE BY TYPE We help our customers to People Product Design Customers succeed in the digital economy Through our market-leading trend forecasting and Thought leadership on the digital revolution and we measure our success insights, we help global brands design for tomorrows Deep specialist knowledge of industries and markets through Net Promoter Scores customer, today.
in which we operate and retention rates.
Global network Forward-thinking, challenging and visionary culture Subscriptions 94% Page 20 For more information Advisory 6% REVENUE BY TYPE We offer our people a rewarding Intellectual Marketing Our People career, full of opportunity to We help our customers create, execute and measure Robust and scalable technology platforms grow and develop.
We measure the creativity and effectiveness of marketing Use of best-in-class data harvesting technology our success through our annual campaigns and strategies that will generate more Proprietary analytics algorithms Subscriptions 12% employee engagement survey.
demand from their customers in a digital economy.
Value from accumulation of consumer trading data sets Advisory 40% Delegates 18% Content archives Awards 20% Individual brand values and market leading positions Space & Sponsorship 8% Page 21 For more information Other 2% REVENUE BY TYPE We support our communities Relationships Sales Communities though charitable donations, Our ecommerce analytics and managed services Long-term relationships with some of the worlds top working towards operating brands deliver data, analytics and industry-specific consumer product and services companies and platforms sustainable events, and operating intelligence to maximise distribution opportunities, Holistic proposition across the consumer value chain Subscriptions & responsibility across our suppliers, identify key products and drive growth.
Our FinTech Managed Services 50% provides potential to leverage broader customer partners and other stakeholders.
payments congress focuses on the evolution of Advisory 3% relationships payments and financial services.
Delegates 25% Global reach of partner relationships Space & Sponsorship 20% Page 22 For more information Other 2% REVENUE BY TYPE Long term sustainable returns.
Financial Built Environment Shareholders Dividend policy targeting Good operating cash generation 30% of adjusted earnings & Policy Strong organic growth rates per share.
Our brands provide market-leading environmental, Robust balance sheet construction and political intelligence, enabling Access to substantial committed bank facilities informed and accurate decisions.
Clear capital allocation priorities Subscriptions 42% Advisory 4% Transactional 54% Page 23 For more information 16 Points of differentiation Governance Financial statements Strategic report OUR PLATFORM WHAT WE DO REVENUE STREAMS OUTCOMES REVENUE BY TYPE We help our customers to People Product Design Customers succeed in the digital economy Through our market-leading trend forecasting and Thought leadership on the digital revolution and we measure our success insights, we help global brands design for tomorrows Deep specialist knowledge of industries and markets through Net Promoter Scores customer, today.
Global network Forward-thinking, challenging and visionary culture 77.8m Subscriptions 94% Advisory 6% REVENUE BY TYPE We offer our people a rewarding Intellectual Marketing Our People career, full of opportunity to We help our customers create, execute and measure Robust and scalable technology platforms grow and develop.
Value from accumulation of consumer trading data sets Advisory 40% 116.3m Delegates 18% Content archives Awards 20% Individual brand values and market leading positions Space & Sponsorship 8% Other 2% REVENUE BY TYPE We support our communities Relationships Sales Communities though charitable donations, Our ecommerce analytics and managed services Long-term relationships with some of the worlds top working towards operating brands deliver data, analytics and industry-specific consumer product and services companies and platforms sustainable events, and operating intelligence to maximise distribution opportunities, Holistic proposition across the consumer value chain Subscriptions & responsibility across our suppliers, identify key products and drive growth.
payments congress focuses on the evolution of 120.9m Advisory 3% relationships payments and financial services.
Delegates 25% Global reach of partner relationships Space & Sponsorship 20% Other 2% REVENUE BY TYPE Long term sustainable returns.
34.3m Clear capital allocation priorities Subscriptions 42% Advisory 4% Transactional 54% 17
