Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report MARKET REVIEW The organisations that have controlled these We provide companies with the Macro-environmental context markets for the last 40 years global the digital revolution best information to ensure they are consumer goods companies like Procter and Humanity has evolved through periods of designing, marketing and selling Gamble, retailers like Walmart and marketing revolution.
The last most significant change was their products to the best standard companies like WPP are being challenged the industrial revolution with the introduction they can, within the digital economy for their market leadership and need to adapt of machines.
The impact of this was most rapidly to either leverage the strengths of and particularly within the digital felt over 100 years ago, but we still reap the these marketplaces or to become rewards today.
We are the generation who marketplaces across the world.
The role of will drive this next revolution: the digital brands, wholesalers and stores has changed revolution.
Although this revolution will affect forever most importantly small to large many aspects of human culture health, life brands will compete in highly segmented expectancy, life quality, ethical standards ways for category growth in a way the positively and negatively it could also incumbent model never allowed.
This will establish a more level playing field for every mean the major product players no longer human and country.
It will provide easy access have their locked-in previous advantages.
for all people to products, health services, work, Every business is reinventing its go-to-market financial products and digital infrastructure.
strategy and all are about lean innovation, automation, cultural change and upskilling Our customers look to us to help them optimise to realign themselves to the new way the way they design, promote and sell their of working.
The world is demanding that our customers make products to reduce wastage, Ascentials position within this market reduce dependency on ingredients driving Ten years ago, our business, as with the rest of obesity, create brands that encourage and the publishing industry, was hit by the digital support well-being for all.
Many companies were not able to revolution is impacting the status quo of the survive, but for Ascential, after seven years of markets we serve: radical change, we have transformed to become Persistent disruption across the supply chain is a thought-leader in many critical areas, positioned a reality for brands, retailers and consumers.
to help our customers face this digital revolution The players defining the future of commerce with confidence.
are the marketplace companies including Amazon, Alibaba, JD.
Com and Instacart, and We have built up a unique information set across those that control delivery across the last the life cycle of Product Design, Marketing and mile like grub hub, DaDa, and Just Eat.
These Sales and we are uncovering more opportunities market place companies are changing the to further assist our customers as we become rules on how companies that create products more joined up with our information, teams reach consumers.
They have very different and capabilities.
business models but each benefits from a network effect.
Once consumers engage with these network effect platforms the quality of choice, price, service, and most importantly convenience make them magnets for their future commerce demands.
These companies also benefit from their access to, and their cost of, capital as they attract much higher valuation multiples than the traditional incumbents.
14 Governance Financial statements Strategic report KEY MARKET TRENDS IMPACT ON ASCENTIAL 1.
Continued rise of online commerce and marketplaces Online retail and advertising spend continues to grow at pace across the world, continuing The majority of Ascentials products are focused the shift in retailer and brand focus to online channels.
This has also given rise to shortened on helping our customers succeed in the growing development and release cycles most apparent and established in the apparel market, digital economy, and these market trends clearly test and learn strategies and the use of more advanced customer analytics.
These digital support this strategy.
Flywheel Digital and Edge in marketplaces are continuing to grow strongly, eroding traditional high street retail.
Amazon particular are directly exposed to the growth in digital in the key Western markets and Alibaba JD in China are becoming increasingly dominant marketplaces and commerce.
Ascential is uniquely and taking ever larger proportions of customer spend.
As a result, brands are ramping up positioned to both manage the advertising on major focus on these platforms.
Additionally, the platforms are increasingly giving manufacturers western digital marketplaces and measure the impact self-serve advertising tools which allow brands to influence the digital shelf, and for the of that advertising.
platforms this opens up a high margin revenue stream.
Transformation of the global advertising market As the shift to online commerce continues, so does the shift and evolution of how product Many of Ascentials products benefit from this shift owners market their goods.
The growth and concentration of online advertising spend is in marketing and advertising.
FlyWheel Digital, in changing the way in which these product owners go to market, with shifts from the old particular, has benefited from the growth in Amazon agency model towards in-house teams and end-to-end consultancies that advise on the full advertising, which it manages on behalf of brands.
This has created pressure on traditional agency models, while data and WARC has benefited from the focus on advertising technology organisations martech, consultancies and adtech have, conversely, flourished.
effectiveness and the need to understand campaign Despite concerns over control and transparency, the major platforms are expected to ROI, while the in-housing trend has helped drive continue to dominate the online space since this is where consumers spend their time subscriptions from brand owners.
Cannes Lions and and money.
Amazon, in particular, has been pushing its advertising division hard and MediaLink, however, were negatively impacted by experienced significant growth in 2018. these trends in 2018 Cannes Lions due to the pressure on traditional advertising agencies, and MediaLink from consolidation of digital spend to a few key platforms.
The changing consumer In the hyper-connected digital economy, the needs of consumers are changing.
Gen-Z is Ascentials products across Product Design, Marketing now the largest single population group and is having a profound impact on the way brands and Sales all benefit from changes in consumer interact with their markets.
As consumers become increasingly demanding, the pace of attitudes, as retailers, brands and agencies need to change has itself accelerated: the growth in direct-to-consumer has shortened the product adapt their approaches to be successful.
WGSN helps development cycle and made it even more critical that brands stay ahead.
Understanding product designers understand these changing needs the consumer, identifying the right needs and building the right products to sell with the and develop successful products.
Cannes Lions helps right message through the right channels are now priorities.
brands and agencies understand how to market to the ever-evolving consumer.
Edge and FlyWheel Digital help brands optimise their sales approach as consumer attitudes and demands change.
A brave new financial services world The trend towards the convergence of a consumers social life, retail life and financial Continued change and innovation is at the heart of life continues to gather pace.
This is most evident from the Chinese tech internet giants Money20 20.
As the market continues to develop but is increasingly emerging in the West too.
As these organisations rapidly grow their and change, a forum to learn, connect and do footprint in financial services, the start-up and challenger banks are doing the same with business becomes increasingly important.
From a lower customer bases but superior customer experiences.
This is accelerating the change broader Ascential perspective, vertical integration of pace for the incumbents in the industry, from traditional banks to payments companies of marketplaces with payments and lending is likely to even traditional technology companies, as they search for new answers to compete.
to yield future opportunities given FlyWheel Digital New technology is beginning to converge as the industries turn their attention to leveraging and Edges expertise around the point of sale.
AI projects with cloud, blockchain and quantum computing.
Regulation continues to play a front and centre role in shaping the financial services sector with the emphasis on reducing barriers to entry to stimulate competition and provide a level playing field, with the ultimate aim to improve services to consumers and business while protecting their interest.
Brexit uncertainty Brexit uncertainty continues to impact Sterling foreign exchange rates, and suppress UK The impact of Brexit uncertainty is mitigated at a and Eurozone economic growth.
Property markets in the UK have stagnated as buyers Group level see Risk management section on page 37 and sellers wait to understand the outcome and impact of Brexit negotiations and major however specific brands are impacted more directly: investments in the UK are being put on hold.
International businesses are focused on uncertainty surrounding Brexit is a positive driver for Brexit planning and understanding the potential implications.
DeHavilland due to increased demand for political intelligence and impact analysis.
However, the negative impact being felt by the UK property and construction markets results in a drag on Glenigan and Groundsure, while investments and home moves are put on hold until there is more certainty surrounding Brexit impact.
