Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report COMPANY OVERVIEW PRODUCT DESIGN MARKETING Unlock trends that enable our Unlock insight and connections for customers to design for tomorrows better decision making and more consumer, today targeted campaigns REVENUE REVENUE 78m 116m 2017: 74m 2017: 111m The leading global supplier of trend forecasts, market intelligence and The worlds largest and most widely recognised international benchmark insight to design-orientated consumer businesses.
and festival for creativity in the branded communications industry.
Strategic advisory firm serving partners at the intersection of media, marketing, advertising, entertainment, technology and finance.
Global digital subscription based business that helps brands, agencies and media platforms assess marketing effectiveness across all channels.
06 Governance Financial statements Strategic report SALES BUILT ENVIRONMENT & POLICY Unlock data, analytics and industryUnlock critical intelligence across specific platforms to maximise environmental property risk, distribution opportunities and construction and government policy drive growth REVENUE REVENUE 121m 34m 2017: 78m 2017: 31m The leading congress in the payments and financial services innovation Market leading provider of environmental risk data.
sector, focusing on the evolution of payment and financial services through mobile, retail, marketing services, data and technology.
The recently integrated digital retail strategy and analytics business, Provider of construction project sales leads, industry data, analysis, offering sales and share measurement, digital shelf performance, price forecasting and company intelligence.
and promotion analysis and global retail trends information.
A provider of managed services to brands on Amazon.
A leading provider of political intelligence and monitoring services in the UK and EU.
World Retail Congress, which brings together the leaders of the global retail industry, and Retail Week, an events and information services business.
