Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Index to principal Directors Report and Listing Rule disclosures Relevant information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Pages Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Report 3741 Disclosure of information to auditor Directors Report 79 Directors in office during the year Corporate Governance Report 58 Dividend recommendation for the year Strategic Report 29 Directors indemnities Directors Report 76 Corporate responsibility Strategic Report 4551 Greenhouse gas emissions Directors Report 78 Financial instruments risk management objectives and policies Notes to the Financial Statements 123127 Future developments of the Company Strategic Report 13 Employment policies and employee involvement Strategic Report and Directors Report 4244, 79 Structure of share capital, including restrictions on the transfer of securities, voting rights and interests in voting rights Directors Report 77 Political donations Directors Report 78 Rules governing changes to Articles of Association Directors Report 78 Going concern statement Strategic Report 29 The information referred to in the above table from the applicable sections of the Annual Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 51 and was approved by the Board on 22 February 2019.
It is signed on behalf of the Board by Duncan Painter, Chief Executive Officer.
Cautionary statement The review of the business and its future development in the Annual Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward-looking statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on information available to them at the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing the Strategic Report, have complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors indemnities The Company maintained appropriate insurance to cover Directors and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such insurance was in force for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under deeds of indemnity for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the director liability provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
Share capital and rights attaching to shares Details of the Companys share capital and movements during the year are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements, which is incorporated by reference into this report.
This includes the rights and obligations attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
The ordinary shares of 0.01 each are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: ASCL.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BYM8GJ06.
All ordinary shares this being the only share class of the Company have the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles.
Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares and subject to relevant legislation, the Company may issue shares with such rights or restrictions as determined by either the Company by ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution to so authorise them, the Directors.
76 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Subject to legislation, the Articles and any resolution of the Company, the Directors may offer, allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of any shares to such persons, at such times and generally on such terms as the Directors may decide.
The Company may issue any shares which are to be redeemed, or are liable to be redeemed, at the option of the Company or the holder, on such terms and in such manner as the Company may determine by ordinary resolution and the Directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any such shares.
No such resolutions are currently in effect.
Subject to recommendation of the Board, shareholders may receive a dividend.
Shareholders may share in the assets of the Company on liquidation.
Voting rights Each ordinary share entitles the holder to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a poll rather than a show of hands in line with recommended best practice.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him, unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any agreement that may result in such restrictions.
Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT The Group has an Employee Benefit Trust which can hold shares to satisfy awards under employee share schemes.
At 31 December 2018, the EBT held 393,893 shares.
Voting rights in relation to any shares held in the EBT are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with best practice guidance, the trustee abstains from voting.
Restrictions on transfers of securities The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the restrictions imposed by laws and regulations.
Interest in voting rights Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
As at 31 December 2018 and 21 February 2019, the Company received notifications in accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company.
As at 31 December 2018 As at 21 February 2019 Percentage of Percentage of voting rights over voting rights over Number of voting ordinary shares of Number of voting ordinary shares of Shareholder rights notified 0.01 each rights notified 0.01 each 75,872,665 18.9 Merian Global Investors 75,872,665 18.9 Ameriprise Financial, Inc 40,209,488 10.0 40,209,488 10.0 BlackRock Inc 36,041,597 9.0 36,041,597 9.0 FMR LLC 21,944,402 5.5 21,944,402 5.5 T Rowe Price Associates, Inc 20,315,108 5.1 20,315,108 5.1 Greenhouse gas emissions statement As part of the Companies Act 2006 2013 Regulations, Ascential is required to provide details of its global greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We are required to disclose the Companys emission of carbon dioxide CO2 as well as a CO2 intensity value, while stating the methodology used to calculate these emissions.
77 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The table below includes combustion of fuel Scope 1 and purchased electricity Scope 2 at our offices and in our Company vehicles for 2017 and 2018: 2018 2017 Unit Emissions type Scope 11 48.22 66.99 Tonnes of CO2 Scope 22 686.73 709.8 Tonnes of CO2 TOTAL 734.95 776.79 Tonnes of CO2 Intensity factors Total headcount 1,644 1,857 Full-time equivalence FTE Total area 24,932 21,316 Square metres Carbon intensity 1: Area Scope 1 1.93 3.14 Kg of CO2 per m2 Scope 2 27.54 33.30 Kg of CO2 per m2 TOTAL 29.47 36.44 Kg of CO2 per m2 Carbon intensity 2: Headcount Scope 1 29.33 36.07 Kg of CO2 per FTE Scope 2 417.72 382.23 Kg of CO2 per FTE TOTAL 447.05 418.30 Kg of CO2 per FTE 1 Scope 1 emissions are calculated from fuel use in Company-leased vehicles using the distance-based calculation method DEFRA GHG conversion factors 2016.
Emissions from personal or privately hired vehicles used for Company business are considered to be Scope 3 GHG protocol and as such are not included in the Operational control boundary approach see Methodology and scope.
2 Scope 2 emissions are calculated from energy consumption at Ascential offices excluding home workers.
CO2 figures are based on the energy consumption of Ascentials operations with estimates used for the remainder based on office surface area.
Where the consumption of energy other than electricity e. g. natural gas is supplied as part of a leased buildings SLA and is not available, this information has not been included in the data.
Methodology and scope Carbon dioxide emissions data has been collected, calculated, consolidated and analysed following the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting & Reporting Standard following the operational control approach.
Emissions factors for locations were sourced from the IEA 2017 CO2 emissions from fuel combustion figures based on country-level factors.
The boundary for reporting extends to include all entities and facilities that are owned or leased by Ascential and are also actively managed by Ascential.
Timeframe and future reporting This is the third year of reporting our CO2 emissions.
Moving forward, we will continue to report year-over-year emissions data.
Furthermore, Ascential intends to review its environmental data management process with a view to improving data collection, accuracy and disclosure.
Changes to the Companys Articles The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
Authority to allot shares Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised to do so by shareholders in a general meeting.
The authority conferred on the Directors at a general meeting of shareholders held on 9 May 2018 expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2019 AGM to seek a new authority to allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital of which approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2020 or 8 August 2020 if earlier.
Political donations The Company did not make any political donations during the year.
78 Strategic report Financial statements Governance Significant contracts The only significant contract to which the Company is a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of control of the Company is the Senior Facility Agreement dated 12 February 2016, which contains customary prepayment, cancellation and default provisions including mandatory repayment of all loans provided on a change of control.
In addition, the Companys subsidiaries have venue agreements with The City of Cannes for the provision of a venue which requires a notification requirement only in the former and notification and best endeavours to ensure terms are maintained in the latter on a change of control.
Employment practices All employment decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital status or sexual orientation.
For employees who may have disability, the Group ensures proper procedures and equipment are in place to aid them.
When it comes to training, career development and promotion, all employees are treated equally and job applications are always judged on aptitude.
Further details on the Groups policies on engagement and employment practices is set out on pages 42 to 44.
Auditor Each of the Directors has confirmed that: a. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and b. the Director has taken all reasonable steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Post balance sheet events There were no reportable post balance sheet events.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will take place at 3pm on 8 May 2019 at Coworth Park Hotel, Blacknest Road, Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7SE, UK.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this report.
It is also available at Ascential.
The Notice sets out the resolution to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
To that end, the Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
Directors Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
79 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors Report of Ascential plc was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Louise Meads Company Secretary 22 February 2019 For and on behalf of the Board of Ascential plc Company number: 9934451 80
