Governance Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report statements.
This is a non-adjusting post Thegender balance was 67% 170 people and financial statements for the year ended balance sheet event.
There were no male and 33% 88 people female.
It is 30June 2018. other post balance sheet events requiring the Groups policy to give appropriate adjustment or disclosure herein.
consideration to applications from disabled The financial statements have been persons, having regard to their particular preparedin accordance with International Directors aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The members of the Board together with training, career development and progression adopted by the EU.
their biographical details are shown on page including those who become disabled during 43.
With the exception of Jennifer Bingham the course of their employment all are Principal activity who was appointed as an additional Director treated on equal terms with other employees.
andbusinessreview on 29 June 2018, all members of the Board The principal activity of the Group is the served as Directors throughout the year.
Insurance and provision of investment management  services.
The Company is required to set out Details of the service contracts of the current Directors and officers liability insurance is in this report a fair review of the businessof Directors are described in the Directors maintained by the Company for all Directors.
the Group during the financial year ended remuneration policy on page 59.
To the extent permissible by law, the Articles 30June 2018 and of the position of the Details of the constitution and powers of the of Association also permit the Company to Group at the end of that financial year and Board and its committees are set out in the indemnify Directors and former Directors a description of the principal risks and Corporate governance report on pages 45 against any liability incurred whilst serving in uncertainties facing the Group referred to to 47.
The Corporate governance report also such capacity.
The information summarises the Companys rules concerning that fulfils the requirements of the Business Directors conflicts of interests appointment and replacement of Directors.
review can be found in the financial highlights The Companies Act 2006 imposes upon on the inside front cover, the ChiefExecutive Board diversity Directors a statutory duty to avoid unauthorised Officers review on pages16to 17, the The Nominations Committee and the Board conflicts of interest with the Company.
The Business review on pages 22 to 27 and recognisethe importance of diversity and Companys Articles of Association enable theCorporate governance report on believe that this is a wider issue than solely Directors to approve conflicts of interest and pages45to47.
There are presently no plans to add also include other conflict of interest provisions.
further Non-executive Directors to the Board, The Company has implemented processes to The principal risks facing the business and however, the Nominations Committee, in identify potential and actual conflicts of interest.
risk management policy aredetailed on pages assessing the suitability of aprospective Such conflicts are then considered for approval 32 to 33. appointeeconsiders a number of diverse by the Board, subject, where necessary, to Results and dividends factors including the balance of skills, appropriate conditions.
The results of the Group for the year are experience, gender andnationality.
The Save as disclosed on page 59, Executive set out in the consolidated statement of Board currently consists of two Executive Directors do not presently hold any comprehensive income on page 82. and five Non-executive Directors ofwhom externalappointments with any two are female.
As previously announced, non-Ashmore-related companies.
The Directors recommend a final dividend Peter Gibbs does not intend to seek reof 12.10 pence per share FY2016 17: election at the Companys 2018 AGM.
Directors share interests 12.10pence which, together with the interim Subject to the remaining Directors being The interests of Directors in the Companys dividend of 4.55 pence per share FY2016 17: elected or re-elected at the AGM this will shares are shown on page 67 within the 4.55 pence already declared, makes a leave a Board comprising six Directors of Annual report on remuneration.
total for the year ended 30 June 2018 of which two will be female.
The Nominations 16.65pence per share 2017: 16.65 pence.
Significant agreements Committee from time totime engages the Details of the interim dividend payment are withprovisions applicable to a services of an external search consultant set out in note 14 tothe financial statements.
change incontrol of the Company for the purpose of seeking new candidates Save as described, there are no agreements Subject to approval at the Annual General for Board membership, conditional upon in place applicable to a change in control of Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on such consultant having noconnection the Company.
7 December 2018 to shareholders on the totheCompany.
register on 2 November 2018 the ex-dividend Resolution 17in the Notice of Annual General It is Ashmores policy to attract and retain date being 1 November 2018.
Meeting will seek approval from shareholders a diverse workforce.
Whilst there are no to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the Related party transactions quotas set in respect of gender, age or Takeover Code in respect of the obligation Details of related party transactions are set educational or professional background that could arise for Mark Coombs to make a out in note 29 to the financial statements.
Ashmore is committed to providing equal mandatory offer for the Company in the event opportunities and seeks to ensure that its that the Company exercises the authority to Post-balance sheet events workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, make market purchases of its own shares.
On 18 July 2018 the Group acquired a 56% the diversity of the many communities Further details will be contained in the controlling interest in Ashmore Avenida in which it operates.
As at 30 June 2018 separate Notice of AGM.
Investments Real Estate LLP and further Ashmore employed 38 different details are set out in note 31 to the financial  the organisation.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant interests in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure andTransparency Rules other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 67 in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01pence each as set out in the table below.
1 Substantial shareholdings as disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 Number of voting Number of voting rights disclosed as at Percentage rights disclosed as at Percentage 3 3 30 June 2018 interests 6September 2018 interests Standard Life Aberdeen plc 46,924,720 6.63 Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited formerlyCarey Pensions and 2 Benefits Limited as Trustees of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 35,824,935 5.06 35,824,935 5.06 Schroders plc 34,589,104 4.89 34,589,104 4.89 Allianz Global Investors GmbH 32,695,220 4.62 32,695,220 4.62 UBS Group AG 27,343,929 3.87 27,343,929 3.87 1.
The shareholding of Mark Coombs, a Director and substantial shareholder, is disclosed separately on page 67.
In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Executive Director and employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited formerly Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The voting rights disclosed for the EBT in this table reflect the last notification made to the Company in accordance with DTR5.
The actual number of shares held by the EBT as at 30 June 2018 is disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury 2017: 707,372,473 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331 in Treasury.
The Senior Independent Director is available Relations with shareholders Restrictions on voting rights to shareholders if they have concerns which The Company places great importance on A member shall not be entitled to vote at contact through the normal channels of communication with its investors and aims any general meeting or class meeting in Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group tokeep shareholders informed by means respect of any share held by him if any call Finance Director has failed to resolve or ofregular communication with institutional or other sum then payable by him in respect for which such contact is inappropriate.
shareholders, analysts and the financial press of that share remains unpaid or if a member The Company continues to offer major throughout the year.
has been served with a restriction notice shareholders the opportunity to meet any as defined in the Articles of Association Annual and interim reports and quarterly orall of the Chairman, the Senior Independent after failure to provide the Company with assets under managementupdates are Director and any new Directors.
information concerning interests in those widely distributed to other parties who shares required to be provided under the The Group will announce via a regulatory may have an interest in the Groups Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised information service the number of performance.
These documents arealso in person or by proxy.
The Articles of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the made available on the Companys website Association currently provide a deadline for Annual General Meeting and any other where formal regulatory information service submission of proxy forms of 48 hours before generalmeetings.
Executive Officer and Group Finance Director Share capital report to the Board on investor relations Purchase of own shares The Company has a single class of share and on specific discussions with major In the year under review, the Company capital which is divided into ordinary shares shareholders and the Board receives copies did not purchase any of its own shares for of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu of research published onthe Company.
The Company is, until the date of in respect of participation and voting rights.
Additionally, theChairman and the Chair the next Annual General Meeting, generally The shares are in registered form.
The issued of the Remuneration Committee met and unconditionally authorised to buy back share capital of the Company at 30 June with shareholders as part of shareholder upto 35,368,623 of its own issued shares.
2018 is 712,740,804 shares in issue of which engagement with reference to the The Company retains a total of 5,368,331 5,368,331 shares are held inTreasury.
Remuneration Policy submitted to the 2017 ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each in Details of the structure of and changes in AGM.
The 2018 Annual General Meeting will Treasury, which were acquired at an average share capital are set out in note 22 to the be attended by all Directors, and the Chairs price of 129 pence per share.
The shares in financial statements.
of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Treasury represent 0.75% of the Companys Remuneration Committees will be available issued share capital.
The Company is seeking to answer questions.
Privateinvestors a renewal of the share buyback authority at are encouraged to attend the Annual the 2018 Annual GeneralMeeting.
72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Power to issue and allot shares Corporate governance Emission scopes The Directors are generally and unconditionally The Company is governed according to Ashmores Scope 1 emissions relate to gas authorised to allot unissued shares in the the applicable provisions of company law combustion and refrigerant usage.
Company up to a maximum nominal amount and by the Companys Articles.
As a listed Ashmores Scope 2 emissions relate to of 23,579.08 and 47,158.16 in connection company, the Company must also comply purchased electricity.
with an offer by way of a rights issue.
with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Ashmores Scope 3 emissions relate to Guidance and Transparency Rules issued by A further authority has been granted to the water usage, air travel and office waste.
the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Directors to allot the Companys shares for Listed companies are expected to comply as Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions cash, up to a maximum nominal amount far aspossible with the Financial Reporting associated with Scope 1 direct emissions of7,073.72, without regard to the Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, and Scope 2 indirect emissions from pre-emption provisions of the Companies and to state how its principles have been purchased electricity, heating and cooling to Acts.
No such shares have been issued or applied.
A report on corporate governance be reported.
Revisions to the GHG Protocol, allotted under these authorities, nor is there and compliance with the provisions of to which this reporting exercise adheres, any current intention to do so, other than the Code is set out on pages 45 to 47. require organisations to calculate their Scope to satisfy outstanding obligations under the The Company complied throughout the 2 emissions both in terms of market-based employee share schemes where necessary.
accounting period under review with all the emissions and location-based emissions.
relevant provisions set out in the Code.
These authorities are valid until the This information is set out below.
dateof the next Annual General Meeting.
Mandatory greenhouse gas It is not obligatory to report Scope 3 indirect Aresolution for the renewal of such emissions reporting emissions from the inputs and outputs to authorities will be proposed at the 2018 As a company listed on the main market the main business activity i. e. supply chain Annual GeneralMeeting.
ofthe London Stock Exchange Ashmore and consumer end-user related emissions.
Employees Group plc is required to report its However, for completeness, Ashmore Group Details of the Companys employment greenhousegas emissions GHG emissions.
will continue to report on some Scope 3 practices including the employment emission categories in order to offer a wider Operational control methodology of disabled persons can be found in picture to stakeholders and investors.
Ashmore Group has adopted the operational the Corporate responsibility section on control method of reporting.
The emissions Exclusions and estimation pages34to 42. reported below are for nine global offices Whilst every effort has been made to collect Overseas Pensions and Benefits Limited around the world where Ashmore Group full and consistent data from all international formerly Carey Pensions and Benefits exercised direct operational control in offices, in some cases information was not Limited as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 the 2017 18 financial year.
The following approaches were Employee Benefit Trust has discretion as emissions, as well as emissions originating therefore taken to account for this: tothe exercise of voting rights over shares from their operations, are those which are In those instances where a full 12months which it holds in respect of unallocated considered material to Ashmore Group.
data was not available, estimation shares, namely those shares in which no techniques have been applied to estimate employee beneficial interests exist.
Where no country data was available for the current reporting year, previous years have been used to estimate 2017 18 consumption based on headcount numbers.
A number of offices were only able to provide data for the whole building in which they reside.
No sub-metered data was available for each tenant in these cases.
In these instances, the share of the total floor area occupied by Ashmore Group was used to apportion the total consumption.
Missing, or anomalous, water data was estimated using an average consumption 3 figure of 15m per full-time employee, as sourced from a UK-based water company.
This figure is broadly consistent with the average per employee consumption ofthose offices which were able to providedata.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Directors report continued For those offices where the landlord Ashmore Groups emissions 2017 18 Ashmore Groups utilities charge was the only possible The overall GHG emissions decreased by 5 emissions by source source of data, energy and water 28.5% compared to the last year.
This is consumption have been estimated using primarily due to portfolio changes during 2017 18 Absolute emissions tonnes CO e 2 the average governmental utility prices for 2017 18 financial year including consolidation the respective countries.
of offices, and changes in emission factors.
Analysis of the energy efficiency of the Where offices were not able to provide any new offices demonstrates that more waste data for their buildings it was not energy efficient buildings are joining the deemed appropriate to estimate this, due portfolio, which also contributes to lower to the uncertainties surrounding the varying GHG emissions and energy intensity.
nature of building sizes, modes of working Airtravel emissions decreased by 30% and cities waste disposal infrastructure, due to exclusion of flights recharged to amongst other factors.
It has also not been partner companies.
However, this category possible to make use of data supplied still remains the largest contributor to in litres, as the density of the waste is Ashmore Groups emissions breakdown unknown.
The second largest 2 Methodology Air travel 622.60 67% contributor to the GHG footprint, purchased All data has been collected and analysed electricity, has decreased significantly Electricity 268.02 29% in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate this year, due to exclusion of two large Natural gas 34.96 4% 1 Accounting and Reporting Standard.
UK offices from the Ashmore Group portfolio, 2 Waste 2.05 1% Government 2018 emission factors have and now accounts for 268 tCO e or 29%.
2 Water 2.56 1% been applied for all calculations, except the Waste, water and refrigerants based on the international offices electricity consumption, Refrigerants 0.35 1% available data account for the lowest levels for which the International Energy Agencys ofemissions.
3 2017 emissions factors have been used.
Emissions have also been calculated using Ashmore Group has used a customised tool, an intensity metric, which enables Ashmore developed by Ricardo Energy & Environment, Group to monitor how well it is controlling to undertake the emissions calculations.
emissions on an annual basis, independent The data inputs and outputs have been of fluctuations in the levels of its activity.
reviewed by Ricardo Energy & Environment AsAshmore Group is a people business, on behalf of Ashmore Group.
the most suitable metric is emissions  FTE employee.
Ashmore Groups emissions per FTE are shown in the table below.
Due to the overallincrease in emissions, tonnes of CO eemitted per FTE has also risen since 2 4 last year.
All UK related emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by UK Government: https: www.
All international electricity emissions factors were taken from the International Energy Agencys statistics report CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2017 Edition.
74 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Ashmores emissions by Scope Absolute totals Absolute totals Tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e Scope Source 2017 18 2017 18 2016 17 2016 17 Scope 1 Natural gas 34.96 33.83 35.31 Scope 1 Refrigerants 0.35 0.86 34.69 Scope 2 Electricity location based 268.67 268.67 372.13 372.13 1 Scope 2 Electricity market based 268.02 268.02 371.19 371.19 Scope 3 Air travel 622.60 889.98 Scope 3 Water 2.56 627.21 2.87 895.06 Scope 3 Waste 2.05 2.20 Total 930.54 1,300.94 1.
This figure is based on a combination of market based and location based emission factors.
Market based emission factors were provided for one Ashmore office: Japan.
This figure uses the market based emission factor for this office.
All other offices Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the location based factor.
This figure is hereafter referred to as market-based emissions.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual Charitable and political Companies Act 2006 General Meeting to reappoint KPMG LLP as contributions This Directors report on pages 71 to 75 auditor and to authorise the Audit and Risk During the year, the Group made charitable inclusive has been drawn up and presented Committee to agree their remuneration.
donations of 0.1 million FY2016 2017: in accordance with and in reliance on English Note11 to the financial statements sets out 0.1million.
The work of the Ashmore company law and the liabilities of the details of the auditorsremuneration.
Foundation is described in the Corporate Directorsin connection with that report shall responsibility section of this report on pages be subject to the limitations and restrictions 2018Annual General Meeting 37 to 38.
It is the Groups policy not to make provided by such law.
Details of the Annual General Meeting contributions for political purposes.
will begiven in the separate circular and References in this Directors report to the NoticeofMeeting.
Creditor payment policy financial highlights, the Business review, The Groups policy and practice in the UK the Corporate governance report and the Going concern is to follow its suppliers terms of payment Remuneration report are deemed to be The Company and Group have considerable and to make payment in accordance with included by reference in this Directors report.
financial resources and the Directors those terms subject to receipt of satisfactory believe that both are well placed to manage Approved by the Board and signed on its invoicing.
Unless otherwise agreed, their business risks successfully.
Further behalf by: payments to creditors are made within information regarding the Groups business 30days of receipt of an invoice.
At 30 June activities, together with the factors likely to 2018, the amount owed to the Groups trade affect its future development, performance John Taylor creditors in the UK represented approximately and position, is set out on pages 16 to 33.
Company Secretary 15 days average purchases from suppliers After making enquiries, the Directors are FY2016 17: 15 days.
6 September 2018 satisfied that the Company and the Group Auditors and the disclosure of have adequate resources to continue to information to auditors operate for the next 12 months from the The Directors who held office at the date date of this reportand confirm that the of approval of this Directors report confirm Company and the Group are going concerns.
that, so far as they are each aware, there For this reason they continue to adopt the is no relevant audit information of which going concern basis in preparing these the Companys auditors are unaware, and financialstatements.
each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware of any relevantaudit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of thatinformation.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75
