Governance Board of Directors Committed to the highest standards Peter Gibbs Jennifer Bingham David Bennett Non-executive Chairman Age 60 Non-executive Director Age 66 Senior Independent Director Age 56 Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board in Jennifer Bingham was appointed to the David Bennett was appointed to the April 2015.
Peter has spent his entire career Board in June 2018.
She is an accountant and BoardinOctober 2014.
He was a Director working in the financial services industry.
between 1992 and 2003 she was a senior of Alliance and Leicester plc between 2001 He was Chief Investment Officer and executive of Brunswick Capital Management and 2008, serving as Group Finance Director Head of Region for the non-US investment Limited, an investment manager specialising and then Group Chief Executive until its management activities of Merrill Lynch in the Russian equity market.
During this sale to Santander in 2008.
He has also held Investment Managers, having spent his early period she variously held the offices of a number of executive positions in Abbey career at Brown Shipley and Bankers Trust as Chief Executive, Chief Operating and Chief National plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, a portfolio manager.
Since then he has held a Financial Officer of the firm.
Since 2003 Lloyds TSB Group and the National Bank number of non-executive positions including Jennifer has held finance, administration and of New Zealand.
David is currently Deputy at UK Financial Investments plc the body investment oversight roles with investment Chairman and Senior Independent Director responsible for the UK governments financial company PCHB Limited part of the Cundill of CYBG plc, Chairman of various Together services investments, Evolution Group plc, group of companies and as Trustee and Chair group companies, and a Non-executive Impax Asset Management Group plc, Friends of the Peter Cundill Foundation.
Director of PayPal Europe SARL et Cie, Life Group Limited and Intermediate Capital S. C. A.
He has also served as a Non-executive Dame Anne Pringle DCMG Group plc.
He is currently a Non-executive Director of easyJet plc between 2005 and Non-executive Director Age 63 Director of Aspect Capital Ltd and Chair of 2014.
David holds an MA in Economics from Anne Pringle joined the Board in February Trustees for Bank of America Merrill Lynch Cambridge University.
She was a diplomat with the Foreign UK Pension Plan Trustees Ltd and the Visa and Commonwealth Office for over 30 years, Committee membership: A, N, R Europe Pension Plan.
focusing in particular on the EU, Russia and Clive Adamson Committee membership: N, R Eastern Europe.
Between 2001 and 2004, Non-executive Director Age 62 Anne was the British Ambassador to the Mark Coombs Clive Adamson was appointed to the Board in Czech Republic and from 2004 to 2007, Chief Executive Officer Age 58 October 2015.
He was Head of Supervision Director of Strategy and Information at the Mark Coombs was appointed a Director and an Executive Director of the Board of FCO and a member of the FCO Board.
From onthe incorporation of the Company in the Financial Conduct Authority until January 2008 to 2011, she served as Ambassador to December 1998, and has served as its 2015, and prior to that he held a number the Russian Federation.
Anne is the Senior ChiefExecutive Officer since then.
He of senior roles within its predecessor, the Governor on the Board of St Andrews heldanumber of positions at Australia and Financial Services Authority.
Between 1998 University and a trustee on the Board of New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor in Banking Shakespeares Globe Theatre.
Ashmores buyout from ANZ in early 1999.
Supervision at the Bank of England.
Clive He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association Committee membership: A, N, R is currently the Non-executive Chairman for Emerging Markets, having been on the of JPMorgan International Bank Limited, Board since 1993.
Mark has an MA in Law Non-executive Director and Chairman of from Cambridge University.
the BoardRisk & Capital Committee of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited and Tom Shippey Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board Group Finance Director Age 44 Risk Committee of CYBG plc.
Clive is a Senior Tom Shippey was appointed to the Board Advisor to McKinsey & Co.
He holds an MA in asGroup Finance Director in November Economics from Cambridge University.
Prior to joining Ashmore in 2007, he worked for UBS Investment Bank, including Committee membership: A, N, R advising on the Ashmore IPO in 2006.
Tom qualified as a Chartered Accountant with  in 1999 and is Key to membership a Fellow of the ICAEW.
He has a BSc in of committees International Business and German from AAudit and Risk Aston University.
NNominations RRemuneration A bold letter denotes the Chair.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
