A strategy for growth Capitalisingon Emerging Markets growth trends Ashmores strategy captures the significant growth available across the broad range of diversified Emerging Markets asset classes.
Ithasthree distinct phases, each focused on growing or diversifying Ashmores business and delivering value to clients and shareholders.
Establish 1 Emerging Markets asset classes Diversify investment 2 themes and developed world capital sources Mobilise 3 Emerging Markets capital 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Developments in FY2017 18 Investor allocations to Emerging Ashmore is recognised as an established Markets are increasing, and Ashmores AuM grew 26% in the specialist Emerging Markets manager, and is financial year with record gross and net subscriptions.
therefore well positioned to capture investors rising allocations to the asset classes Ashmore continues to develop Ashmore is diversifying its revenue mix to products and capabilities within its eight investment themes.
Retail provide greater revenue stability through the AuM increased by 47% in FY2017 18 and represents 14% of total AuM.
There is particular focus on growing intermediary, equity and alternatives AuM 33% of Group AuM has been Ashmores growth will be enhanced by sourced from clients domiciled in the Emerging Markets and AuM accessing rapidly growing pools of investable managed by local platforms increased 26% over the year to capital in Emerging Markets US$4.9billion.
Read the Remuneration report on page 53 to learn how Ashmore aligns pay to performance and places an emphasis on long-term equity ownership Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 A strategy for growth Establish Emerging Markets asset classes 1 Understanding the Emerging Markets opportunity Understanding indices The investable Emerging Markets universe Benchmark indices offer poor coverage of the Emerging Markets is large, diverse, growing rapidly, and mostly investment universe, representing only 9% of total fixed income and local currency-denominated.
This provides 19% of equity markets.
Structurally, coverage should increase as significant opportunities to generate investment domestic capital markets become more accessible and replicable in the popular indices.
performance from a broad range of fixed income, equity and illiquid asset markets across An active manager can extract significant value from this inefficiency and deliver superior returns compared to a manager or product that is more than 70 emerging nations.
constrained by investing in the small fraction of the Emerging Markets universe that is indexed.
Understanding diversity The Emerging Markets investment universe is highly diversified, Investable Emerging Markets universe in excess of with more than 70 Emerging Markets countries, each of which is at a different stage of economic, political and social development.
This US$53trn presents a large set of investment propositions for an active manager.
Importantly, the majority of the fixed income market is local currencyInvestable Emerging Markets universe denominated and owned by domestic investors, providing not only diversity but also resilience to cope with tactical foreign capital flows.
External Local currency The diversity of Emerging Markets investment opportunities is 9% reflected in the wide range of returns available to an active investment manager.
For example, the chart below shows the individual country 46% 91% Sovereign US$1.2trn US$10.3trn returns of the 67-member external debt EMBI GD index over the debt 54% pastyear.
2% Diversity illustrated by wide range of external debt returns 23% 98% Corporate 11% US$2.0trn US$10.8trn debt 77% EMBI GD 5% index -1.6% 95% Total fixed US$3.2trn 31% US$21.1trn income 69% -39% External debt country index returns over 12 months to 30 June 2018.
US$28.9trn 81% Total equities Securities in benchmark index Securities not in benchmark index 6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Significant AuM growth opportunity from higher allocations The typical institutional investor is heavily underweight EmergingMarkets, with a target allocation of less than 10% versus the 15% to 20% weight in benchmark global indices.
Therefore, increasing investors understanding of the nature and scale of the Emerging Markets investment opportunity should lead to higher allocations over time.
Increasing institutional allocations to Emerging Markets Typical EM target weight % 7.5 6.4 5.4 4.2 3.8 3.6 2.0 N A 2005 2010 2015 2017 Equity Fixed income Source: Ashmore, annual reports of representative European and US pension funds collectively responsible for more than US$750 billion of assets.
Growth in Emerging Markets Number of countries in external Proportion of bonds issued in Typical Emerging Markets investment universe in 2017 debt index local currency weight in global indices 19% 67 87% 15% 20% Read more Read Ashmores Market review on page18 to learn more about the growthopportunities available acrossEmerging Markets Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 A strategy for growth Diversify investment themes and developed world capital 2 sources Diversify investment themes Ashmore has been dedicated to Emerging Markets investing for more than 25 years.
During this time it has established a diversified range of eight headline Broad-based record net inflows in FY2017 18 investment themes with focused strategies under each theme delivering US$16.9bn either global Emerging Markets exposure or specific regional or countryexposure.
The Groups products are available in awide range of fund structures, coveringthe full liquidity spectrum from daily-dealing pooled funds through to multi-year locked-up structures.
Ashmorecontinually innovates by providing access to new investment strategies as Emerging Markets Size of bubble corresponds to investment continueto develop.
External debt Local currency Corporate debt Blended debt Invests in debt instruments Invests in local currencies and Invests in debt instruments Invests in external, local currency issued by sovereigns and local currency-denominated issued by public and private and corporate debt assets, quasi-sovereigns.
instruments issued by sector companies.
measured against tailor-made sovereigns, quasi-sovereigns blended indices.
First fund: 1992 First fund: 1997 First fund:2007 First fund:2003 Theme AuM: US$14.5bn Theme AuM: US$17.0bn Theme AuM: US$9.8bn Theme AuM: US$19.7bn Size of universe: US$1.2trn Size of universe: US$10.3trn Size of universe: US$12.8trn Size of universe: US$24.3trn Equities Alternatives Multi-asset Overlay liquidity Invests in equity and equityInvests in private equity, Specialised and efficient Separates the currency risk of related instruments including healthcare, infrastructure, special asset allocation across an underlying asset class or global, regional, country, small situations, distressed debt and the fullEmerging Markets portfolio in order to manage it cap and frontier opportunities.
First fund: 1988 First fund: 2000 Theme AuM: US$4.2bn First fund: 1998 Theme AuM: US$1.0bn First fund:2007 Size of universe: US$28.9trn Theme AuM: US$1.5bn Size of universe: US$53.2trn Theme AuM: US$6.2bn 8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report H i g h n e t w o r Broad distribution capabilities Strong growth in retail AuM Ashmores distribution team sources capital Ashmore focuses on growing its retail AuM from a wide range of institutional and retail to diversify its historically institutional biased clients globally.
This is achieved through a network of intermediaries such as private banks and Group AuM by client type wealth advisers.
Central banks 15% Sovereign wealth funds 8% Efficient diversification through Governments 15% retail intermediaries Pension plans 28% Corporates financial institutions 14% Funds sub-advisers 4% Third-party intermediaries 14% Foundations endowments 2% Intermediary Diverse and balanced AuM by client location Americas 24% Europe ex UK 24% UK 10% Middle East & Africa 19% Asia Pacic 23% Intermediary distribution is efficient and sources capital from high net worth retail clients in Asia, Ashmores 39-strong global Ashmore has a strategic focus Europe and the United States.
Ashmore provides distribution team has established to increase the proportion of access to a broad range of Emerging Markets direct, long-standing relationships its AuM originated through investment themes through its SICAV and 40-Act with a broad range of institutional intermediary channels, which mutual fund platforms.
has risen from 8% in 2015 to 14% today.
This provides Retail AuM growth The strength of this model is diversification from the 47% in FY2017 18 demonstrated in the longevity of institutional client base, enhances client relationships, with Ashmore the Groups revenue margin, and, managing capital for institutional through the use of intermediary clients for an average of more networks such as private banks, than six years.
Ashmores Read more Read Ashmores Business review on wealth advisers and platforms, deep experience in managing page22 to learn more about the strong isan efficient way to access Emerging Markets investments growth delivered in 2018 retailinvestors.
means this client tenure has increased during the most recent cycle between 2013 and 2016.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 t h i n d i v i d u a l s A strategy for growth Mobilise Emerging Markets capital 3 Accessing superior economic and industry growth rates Average EM GDP growth EM share of world GDP Emerging economies capital markets are 2019-2023 IMF 2018 IMF growing and becoming more sophisticated over time.
Domestic institutional and retail investors 5.0% 59% are shifting from relatively simple deposit products to higher return fixed income and Average DM GDP growth EM share of world GDP equity investments, and over time into illiquid 2019-2023 IMF 2023 IMF assets.
Ashmore has established local onshore asset management platforms to participate 1.7% 63% in these growth trends, and to augment the growth available in managing global capital for larger Emerging Markets institutions.
Rapid growth of Emerging Markets capital pools US$ trillion Given the nascent stage of development of capital markets in many emerging countries, while the investable capital pools are smaller 10 than in the developed world, the rapid pace of progress means that growth rates are significantly higher, approximately 3x the rate observed for Developed Markets.
8 Based on this trend, Emerging Markets capital pools will exceed those in the developed world within the next 25 years.
The third 6 phase of Ashmores strategy is designed to identify and capitalise upon opportunities to participate in this superior growth trajectory.
4 2 0 2007 2017 Latin America Asia Middle East & Africa CAGR: compound annual growth rate Source: BCG, Ashmore 10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CAGR 11% Strategic report Local offices provide diversification benefits... Colombia Peru Saudi Arabia Long-term private equity and Manages private equity Invests in listed and private senior debt funds investing in infrastructure and domestic equity opportunities.
infrastructure projects, together andregional equity Significantindustry growth with listed equity capabilities.
investmentsin conjunction expected following the withthe Colombian office.
openingof the equity market toforeign investors.
India Indonesia United Arab Emirates Focused on domestic listed Invests in a broad range of Private equity investments equities and managing domestic equity and fixed focused on private highnetworth capital.
healthcareprovision.... and strong AuM growth Local offices AuM increased by 26% over the year to US$4.9 billion.
The Group continues to pursue opportunities to add further scale to the local platforms and to consider additional markets, in order to broaden investment capabilities and provide further diversification benefits.
Local office AuM US$bn The business model and ownership structure is tailored to each Colombia & Peru market opportunity.
Ashmore is typically the majority shareholder 0.3 Saudi Arabia and achieves an alignment of interests through a significant minority 1.2 United Arab Emirates equity ownership by local employees and strategic partners.
India Local offices have their own investment processes, managing Indonesia capital raised by local distribution teams.
Competitive advantage is 1.6 achieved through local knowledge supported by the resources of a China large global investment manager.
Ashmores global clients access the local investment management 0.1 0.9 capabilities with dedicated single-country or regional mandates.
0.8 Read more Read the Remuneration report on page53 to learn how Ashmore aligns Local asset management platforms operate within an appropriate pay to performance risk management, control and governance framework.
The investment teams have autonomy but interact regularly with Ashmores global investment committees.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
