Market review Growth opportunities across EmergingMarkets Importantly, the decline in asset prices at Positive short-term outlook... Year in review the end of the period was not the result of The period of market weakness experienced any significant changes in the fundamental in the final quarter of the financial year was Emerging Markets assets economic and political backdrop across the principally caused by increased risk aversion majority of emerging nations.
The positive produced consistently strong as a result of developed world events rather trends of faster GDP growth, low and than a broad deterioration in Emerging returns for most of the financial stable inflation, improving current account Markets prospects.
year, as economic growth positions, and supportive electoral cycles all However, the popular narrative has focused continued to accelerate remainintact.
on a small number of emerging countries that and momentum in capital Therefore a change in asset prices, influenced have specific and self-inflicted challenges, flows followed suit, and by risk aversion as a consequence of some andhas painted this picture across the events primarily in the developed world, for broader Emerging Markets universe.
notwithstanding the three US example weak European economic data Therole of an active specialist investor is rate increases during the period.
and Italian political uncertainty resulting to challenge this simplistic view through in a depreciation of the euro, presents an in-depth analysis of the wide range of highly For example, in the nine attractive opportunity for investors to capture diversified investment opportunities across months to March 2018, local value across the diverse range of Emerging the Emerging Markets.
currency bonds delivered a Markets investment themes.
total return of 9% and the Of course there is a very small number MSCI EM equity index returned of countries, such as Argentina and The latent potential Turkey, that face challenges, whether nearly 16%.
of Emerging Markets through existing economic vulnerabilities The final quarter saw some or misguidedpolicies, but these are not is characterised by low representative of the broader investable market weakness and indebtedness, propensity Emerging Markets universe that comprises volatilitysuch that, overall, to reform, favourable more than 70countries.
The universe grew fixedincome markets fell demographics, and therefore by 19% over the 12 months to December slightly over the full year 2017, and now comprises US$53 trillion higher trend economic of publicly traded fixed income and equity periodwhile equities delivered growth rates than observed in securities, as shown on page 6. a small positive return.
developed countries 25 years of delivering superior returns through active management Ashmore established its first fixed income 3,100 fund, EMLIP, in 1992.
The funds success demonstrates Ashmores ability to deliver superior performance for clients through: 2,350 a deep understanding of the diverse and inefficient Emerging Markets 1,600 assetclasses: a specialist, active and consistent investment process followed 850 by an experienced investment committee:and a value-based investment philosophy 100 and rigorous company credit analysis.
EMLIP net EMBI GD S&P 500 Cumulative monthly returns since October 1992 Source: Ashmore, Bloomberg, JP Morgan 18 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Index 1992 100 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 Strategic report A correction in asset prices does not The established trend of Emerging Markets The longer-term investment undermine the positive fundamental trends, superior GDP per capita growth, allied case for Emerging Markets such as accelerating GDP growth, increasing with structural changes as institutions and remains strong, and centres credit worthiness and the development of markets evolve, underpins the opportunity to local capital markets that underpin the outlook deliver attractive investment returns from an on the convergence of social, for Emerging Markets.
It does however allocation to Emerging Markets.
political and economic factors provide the best entry point for several Not all emerging countries will realise their with the developed world.
years, given the resultant valuations.
Local full potential, perhaps because of political or currency bonds, an investment grade asset economic mismanagement, but importantly class, have a real yield of 3%, external debt there is a very large and growing universe trades at more than 300 basis points over of emerging nations with investable US Treasuries, and equity valuations are at equity, fixed income and private markets, wide discounts to developed world prices and so active management can successfully do not reflect improving business and profit avoid those countries that do not offer cycles.
These valuations were last seen in sufficiently attractive return opportunities.
late 2016 after the US election and following For example, Ashmore is currently invested which Emerging Markets performed strongly.
in more than 70 countries across Emerging The short-term outlook for investment returns Markets and its investment committees is therefore positive.
express high conviction views resulting in significant activerisk and strong investment... and attractive long-term prospects performance across the Groups fixed income The longer-term investment case for and equity portfolios.
Emerging Markets remains strong, and centres on the convergence of social, political and economic factors with the developed world.
Simply, the poorer and less developed countries of the world will become wealthier over time.
The latent potential of these countries is characterised by their low indebtedness, propensity to reform, favourable demographics, and therefore higher trend economic growth rates than observed in developed countries.
Attractive real yields offered by Emerging Markets local currency bonds Local currency bonds issued by Emerging 6 Markets sovereigns represent a large US$10.3 trillion and growing asset 5 class 22% in 2017, with the important characteristic that most of the bonds 4 87% are owned by domestic institutions, offering a buffer against the effects of 3 foreign investor capital flows.
2 The benchmark GBI-EM GD index is investment grade rated and increasingly diverse, with more than 200 bonds issued 1 by 18 countries.
This index currently has an average real yield of approximately 3%, 0 a level that is very attractive in absolute terms but also compared to its history and Source: Ashmore, Bloomberg, JP Morgan bonds of equivalent duration and quality issued by developed world countries.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Local currency bonds real yield % 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Market review continued primarily to developed nations and China.
Emerging Markets have turned Challenging the Again, the evidence refutes this view.
vulnerability into resilience The popular misperception of an Emerging misperceptions trade between Emerging Markets is the Market is a country that is heavily indebted to fastest growing segment of world trade, foreign investors, with weak institutions, and amounts to nearly US$5 trillion, and accounts The scale of the Emerging therefore highly vulnerable to capital flight.
for more than 40% of all Emerging Markets Markets opportunity is While this was certainly true of many countries trade.
At the current growth rate, it will in the 1990s and prior, and can still be observed increasing, yet investor represent more than half of all Emerging in a very small number of nations today, the allocations remain at extremely Markets trade within the next decade: majority of emerging countries have changed low levels relative to global the growth in trade is widespread across significantly over the past two decades and are emerging nations, with all regions growing benchmarks, as shown on now far more resilient to shocks, particularly rapidly and trading with each other: external ones, than either in their history or page7.
trade between emerging countries is compared with the popular misperception.
The principal challenge typically more balanced and therefore more For example, Emerging Markets today: stable than trade with developed countries.
in raising allocations to The average trade imbalance between account for 59% of global GDP yet have representative levels is to Emerging Markets is 3% compared with issued only 22% of global debt, the address investors common 8% between Emerging Markets and the majority of which is denominated in the developed world: and misperceptions about the countrys own currency and is owned by domestic investors: China is important, but it trades more with nature of, and risks associated Developed Markets than it does with other control 76% US$8.7 trillion of the worlds with, Emerging Markets.
emerging nations: it accounts for less than foreign exchange reserves: Many of these views are 10% of trade between Emerging Markets.
typically have floating or semi-pegged outdated given the structural Therefore as China continues to grow and exchange rates, with monetary policy to diversify its economy, other Emerging developments that have determined by independent central banks Markets can benefit by increasing their that successfully target inflation: and been delivered by emerging share of trade with China.
have successfully weathered the recent nations over the past two Price volatility is not the same as risk headwinds of rising US interest rates, a decades.
Asunderstanding The volatility of asset prices in Emerging stronger US dollar, commodity price falls, increases then the growth and Markets tends to be higher than in and capital outflows, without major crises investment return potential DevelopedMarkets, although it is important or defaults and thereby illustrating the not to confuse price volatility with risk, enhanced resilience that challenges the canbe appreciated.
Indeed, periods popular misperceptions and underpins the of heightened volatility and weaker asset Emerging Markets investment opportunity.
prices typically present extremely attractive Trade is a diversified driver of investment opportunities.
economicgrowth This price volatility demonstrates the A further misperception of Emerging inefficiencies of Emerging Markets asset Marketsis the notion that the countries classes, providing opportunities for the haveexport-led economies focused on a active investor.
For example, uninformed or narrow range of raw materials and sold speculative investor flows, in part the result of the factors described above, and also structurally low index representation of the The majority of emerging Emerging Markets asset classes, tend to cause short-term dislocations between market countries have changed prices and underlying company or country significantly over the past two fundamentals.
Active management can decades and are now far more capitalise on these periods of volatility to deliver resilient to shocks, particularly superior risk-adjusted returns, as demonstrated by Ashmores strong investment performance external ones, than either in over one, three and five years.
their history or compared with the popular misperception 20 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Review by investment theme External debt Corporate debt Equities The EMBI GD benchmark declined by 1.6% The CEMBI BD benchmark was effectively Equity markets performed well over the over the year, outperforming its reference unchanged over the year with a -0.1% return.
12-month period, delivering returns of 10-year US Treasury bond that returned The high yield HY index returned 0.2% and 8.2%, 5.6% and 1.7% for the MSCI -2.7%.
The index continues to grow with so underperformed the US HY index 3.0%.
EM, MSCI EM Small Cap and MSCI two more countries added in the period to The favourable economic backdrop and Frontier Markets indices, respectively.
This provides significant improving business cycle across Emerging Thisperformance was underpinned by diversification, as illustrated in the wide range Markets means that defaults continue to an ongoing recovery in the profit cycle of country returns over the year from -39% to trend lower, declining from 2.2% to 1.7% combinedwith attractive ratings, particularly 11%, and therefore significant opportunities over the year.
Notably this is a lower level relative to developed world equity markets.
for an active manager to generate value.
ofdefault than seen in the US high yield Ashmore has a comprehensive product market 3.0%.
Ashmores relative performance is strong, range, including specialist products such with its external debt composite delivering Ashmores three-year investment as Frontier Markets through to all cap three-year annualised gross returns of performance is strong, with 6.1% gross strategies and single country funds.
7.1% compared with 4.6% for the annualised returns by the corporate debt Activemanagement, and a combination of benchmark index.
composite compared with 3.9% for the bottom-up security selection with top-down CEMBI BD benchmark.
macro views, has delivered outperformance The outlook for the external debt asset class over three years.
For example, the Frontier is positive.
There are attractive spreads Demand for corporate debt is underpinned Markets composite has three-year annualised over US Treasuries and the possibility of by its attractive characteristics including gross performance of 7.3% versus 2.2% more countries joining the index to increase diversification, with more than 600 issuers for the MSCI Frontier Markets index.
diversification, raise credit quality and in 52 countries, higher spreads than offered reducevolatility.
by equivalently rated developed world The outlook for equities is supported by an companies, and leverage tends to be the attractively valued and highly diverse set of Local currency result of operating requirements rather than investment opportunities, many of which are The GBI-EM GD benchmark fell by 2.3% over LBOs or financial engineering.
driven by domestic or structural factors within the period, with a positive contribution from Emerging Markets.
rates offset by weaker EM FX against the Blended debt US dollar.
As was the case with external The standard benchmark 50% external debt, Alternatives debt, the diversity of the 18-member local 25% local currency bonds, 25% EM FX There are significant thematic growth currency index delivered a broad range of delivered a return of -1.2% over the year.
opportunities associated with real or illiquid country returns over the year, from -44% assets in Emerging Markets, such as real Ashmores investment process actively to 10%.
estate, infrastructure development and manages blended debt portfolios by private healthcare provision.
Ashmores Ashmores local currency bonds composite determining the relative value between trackrecord of structuring funds and raising has outperformed the index with three-year the constituent fixed income themes.
long-term capital positions it well to capture annualised gross returns of 3.3% compared This approach has delivered significant these opportunities.
outperformance for clients with a gross annualised return of 5.9% over three years Growth in the alternatives theme can be The recent correction in this asset class versus the benchmark return of 3.2%.
successfully delivered through acquiring and should be seen against the strong returns aligning with local businesses that tie into delivered since early 2016.
The index yield Ashmore expects continued demand for these growth themes.
of 6.8% is the same as it was when the blended debt funds from both institutional Fed Funds rate was 5.25% prior to the and retail investors, wishing to gain broad Multi-asset global financial crisis, and also the same access to the wide range of attractive Ashmores multi-asset composite has as immediately after the US election, investment opportunities available in returned 9.2% on a gross annualised basis followingwhich the asset class rallied 15% in the US$24 trillion Emerging Markets over three years, significantly outperforming 12 months and attracted meaningful investor debt universe, with the benefit of active its benchmark 5.3%.
Importantly, local currency bonds are management to enhance returns.
the benefit of applying active management predominantly investment grade and offer a tothe diverse range of equity and fixed real yield of 3%, comfortably in excess of that income markets.
offered by developed world bonds of similar quality and duration.
These characteristics underpin Ashmores expectation of further demand for local currency funds from a broad range of institutional investors.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
