STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Pages 58 to 89 inclusive together with the sections of the Transfer of shares Annual Report incorporated by reference form part of the Certified shares Directors report.
i Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
Other information, which forms part of the Directors report, ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: office, or any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form must be accompanied by the share certificate Location relating to the shares being transferred, unless the transfer Acquisitions Financial statements Note 26 is being made by a person to whom the Company was not Audit Committee report Page 65 required to, and did not send, a certificate.
The directors can Board and committee membership Page 59 also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence to show that Corporate governance report Page 60 the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
Directors biographies Page 59 Directors responsibility statement Page 89 CREST shares Financial risk management Financial statements Note 24 i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the Future developments Page 24 circumstances set out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
Greenhouse gas emissions Page 55 ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
Nomination Committee report Page 68 Other statutory disclosures Page 87 Significant shareholders Our people Page 50 Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more of the Pension schemes Financial statements Note 23 issued share capital of the Company as at 9 June 2017 the latest Post balance sheet events Financial statements Note 29 practicable date before approval of the financial statements are Results and dividends Page 38 as follows: Share capital Financial statements Note 20 Social responsibility Page 46 % Standard Life 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Abrams Bison Investments LLC 5 Details of the Companys share capital are given in Note 20 to the Harris Associates LP 5 financial statements.
BlackRock, Inc. 5 Acquisition of own shares At the 2016 annual general meeting, the Company was authorised Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share to make market purchases of up to 75.3m ordinary shares.
The capital and in options over that share capital are given in the Company acquired 4.1m shares under this authority during the Directors remuneration report on pages 69 to 86.
This authority will expire on the earlier of the next annual shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial general meeting of the Company or 7 March 2018. statements on page 116.
A special resolution will be proposed at this years annual general CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS IN LOAN AGREEMENTS meeting to authorise the Company to make market purchases A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a of up to 74.8m ordinary shares.
person or a group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% of the Companys voting rights leads to an Voting rights immediate event of default under the Companys asset-based Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, the agent for the present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% of the on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within and do not exercise their right to vote at general meetings.
30 days of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of the Groups $900m senior secured notes, due 2022 Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint and $500m senior secured notes, due 2024, to redeem them at a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise 101% of their face value.
all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is Unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution, the appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or Company is required to have a minimum of two directors and shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint a maximum of 15 directors disregarding alternate directors.
one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline The directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the by the Articles of Association.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 87 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED 1 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The Board can appoint any person to be a director.
Any person auditor is unaware: and appointed as a director by the Board must retire from office at 2 each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have the first annual general meeting after appointment.
A director taken to make himself aware of such information and to who retires in this way is then eligible for reappointment.
establish that the Companys auditor is aware of it.
The Articles state that each director must retire from office if The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to he held office at the time of the two preceding annual general cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company meetings and did not retire at either of them.
In accordance with and its subsidiary undertakings.
the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election by the shareholders.
AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended In addition to any power to remove directors conferred by by a special resolution.
legislation, the Company can pass a special resolution to remove a director from office even though his time in office has not ended POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS and can appoint a person to replace a director who has been Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment removed in this way by passing an ordinary resolution.
terms agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2017 was 69 days 30 April 2016: 59 days which Any director stops being a director if i he gives the Company reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were written notice of his resignation: ii he gives the Company written no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time notice in which he offers to resign and the directors decide to during the past two years.
accept this offer: iii all the other directors who must comprise at least three people pass a resolution or sign a written notice POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS requiring the director to resign: iv a registered medical Charitable donations in the year amounted to 785,535 in total practitioner who is treating that person gives a written opinion to 2016: 225,193.
No political donations were made in either year.
the Company stating that that person has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS more than three months: v by reason of that persons mental Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 29 health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly prevents of the consolidated financial statements.
that person from personally exercising any powers or rights which that person would otherwise have: vi he has missed directors meetings whether or not an alternate director appointed by him GOING CONCERN attends those meetings for a continuous period of six months After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a without permission from the directors and the directors pass a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have resolution removing the director from office: vii a bankruptcy adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable order is made against him or he makes any arrangement or future and consequently, that it is appropriate to adopt the going composition with his creditors generally: viii he is prohibited concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
from being a director under the legislation: or ix he ceases to be a director under the legislation or he is removed from office AUDITOR under the Articles of Association.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS a resolution concerning its reappointment and authorising the Subject to the legislation, the Articles of Association and any directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual authority given to the Company in general meeting by special General Meeting.
resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board of directors that can use all of the Companys powers to borrow ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING money and to mortgage or charge all or any of the Companys The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm on undertaking, property and assets present and future and Tuesday, 12 September 2017 at Wax Chandlers Hall, 6 Gresham uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures and Street, London EC2V 7AD.
An explanation of the business to other security and to give security, either outright or as collateral be transacted at the AGM will be circulated to shareholders security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of and will be available on the Companys corporate website.
By order of the Board DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INSURANCE Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 58 and 59.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed on pages 62 and 63.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 that to the best of their knowledge and belief: ERIC WATKINS Company secretary 12 June 2017 88 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
