OUR MARKETS CAPITALISING ON MARKET OPPORTUNITY The US continues to be our biggest and fastest growing market although we are seeing strong growth in the UK as well.
The US rental market is potentially five MARKETS WE SERVE: times bigger than the UK and we continue to capitalise on the structural changes in that market, as customers adapt to renting equipment rather than owning it.
We also have a small presence in Canada which we will seek to develop over time, as and when the opportunities for growth present themselves.
The US market is very strong, the UK market is also performing well and we continue to increase our share in both markets.
Our aim is to continue to grow the business wherever we are in the economic CONSTRUCTION ENTERTAINMENT cycle.
A strong market in the US and a good Airports National events one in the UK mean we are performing Highways and bridges Concerts particularly well at the moment.
Office buildings Sporting events Data centres Movies TV production THE BREADTH OF OUR MARKETS Schools and universities Theme parks Our markets continue to broaden, in Shopping centres Festivals terms of geography, range of equipment Residential Farmers markets rented and the applications for which our Remodel Local 5K runs equipment is used.
Some of the very many different individual markets that use our equipment more and more are shown opposite.
For any one of these applications, there is also a very wide range of equipment used.
For example, on one big festival site such as Lollopalooza in Chicago or Glastonbury in the UK, we may have 400-500 pieces of equipment of all different types and sizes.
Equipment that previously would not have been rented is now part of the rental mix.
This is particularly the case with the ongoing structural change most noticeable in FACILITIES AND MUNICIPALITIES EMERGENCY RESPONSE the US.
Office complexes Fire Parks and recreation departments Hurricanes Schools and universities Flooding Shopping centres Tornados Apartment blocks Winter storms Pavement kerb repairs Residential emergencies Golf Course maintenance Government 12 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION T 20 T 18 T 16 T 14 T 12 T 10 T 8 T 6 T 4 T 2 T THE US Economic strength Our core US markets remain very good.
Even oil and gas, which is only a very small part of our business, but which has struggled in the recent past, has returned to growth, with revenue in the final quarter up to 43% over the prior year, albeit on very small numbers.
Construction markets remain strong, with growing employment, the benefits of lower energy prices and increased disposable income, which is positive for our broader markets like event work and residential remodelling.
In the US in particular, people are generally spending more money which has a knock-on effect in our non-construction markets.
We see encouraging short-term trends and the consensus is that the market will experience steady longer-term growth.
Commercial and industrial starts continue to increase and we expect this to continue, at least until 2018.
With the exception of oil and gas, which is showing early signs of recovery, the markets we serve are strong, as both structural and cyclical trends remain US MARKET OUTLOOK favourable.
Chart 02 shows the last three construction cycles.
These have followed one of two patterns.
From 1975 to 1982 and from 1982 to 1991 the initial recovery was very aggressive but the overall cycle was relatively short.
We believe we remain 01 US MARKET OUTLOOK mid-cycle and whilst the pace of growth may moderate, we should have multiple Rental revenue forecasts 2017 2018 2019 years of structural and cyclical opportunity ahead.
Industry rental revenue 5% 5% 5% Source: IHS Markit April 2017.
Market share in the US We continue to grow our market share in the US and even though we are the 02 CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY BY CYCLE second largest equipment rental company, there remains plenty of room to grow 200 as chart 03 shows.
Our major large competitors are United Rentals and Herc 180 Rentals with 10% and 3% respectively.
Home Depot, BlueLine and Sunstate 160 have shares of 2% or less.
Most of the 140 remainder of the market is made up of small local independent tool shops.
120 Much of our market share gains come 100 from these small independents when 80 we set up new stores or acquire them.
Ours is a capital-intensive industry where 60 size matters.
Scale brings cost benefits and sophistication in areas like IT and other services, and this leads ultimately to further consolidation.
The industry has 19751982 19821991 19912011 evolved over the last five years such that Current cycle Forecast the proportion of the market enjoyed by the larger players has increased by 25%.
T 100 based on constant dollars We have clearly been a major beneficiary Source: Dodge Data & Analytics April 2017. of this trend.
Whilst there will always be a place for strong local players, the market enjoyed by the larger players is likely to grow by a further 30 to 40% in the medium term.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 13 OUR MARKETS CONTINUED 15% TARGET MARKET SHARE We are confident that as the market grows, scale advantages.
In the longer term, we However, this is a broad average with our share will also increase.
We have a believe that US market share in the order penetration levels ranging from single good track record of success, having of 20% is a reasonable goal.
to low double-digit percentages for, say, almost doubled our market share since floor scrubbers to 90% for large aerial 2010.
We continue to set ambitious targets As we increase our market share and grow equipment.
We like specialty products for continuing to double our market share our specialty businesses, they become a because they are at the low end of this and market demand allows for this.
The greater proportion of the mix across the range, which provides greater scope for speed with which we increase our market cycle.
The acquisitions we make are often growth.
We see the potential market share is a function of how quickly we can to expand into a new specialty area or to penetration for rental equipment to be well get new locations up and running and develop an existing one and then we over 60% in the US.
The short-term drivers generating profit.
As noted above, our supplement them with greenfield openings.
of this evolution are the significant cost market share growth also comes from inflation in recent years associated with continuing to broaden the range of The trend to rental the replacement of equipment, technical equipment we have available to rent in Rental penetration continues to be a changes to equipment requirements that each location more on this in our strategy positive trend for the industry in the US as make rental more attractive, and health, section on page 24. our customers have become accustomed safety and environmental issues which to the flexibility of an outsourced model.
make rental more economical and just The combination of our business model, Between 2010 and 2017, increased rental easier.
In addition, our customers are ever which you can read more about on page 18, penetration effectively grew our end more used to renting equipment rather the strong economy and the long-term market by 20 to 25%.
We see this trend than owning it themselves.
trend to rental, provides the perfect continuing which will provide similar levels environment for us to achieve our goals.
of market growth over the coming years.
In addition, our market share gains Rental still only makes up around 50% of accelerate as we make the most of our the US market compared to 75% in the UK.
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION Our climate control equipment kept the concrete Denvers light rail at optimal temperature even at height engineers need to cure Each bridge structure to be cured was more than 50 feet in the air and our chillers needed to be tied in to their five concrete bridge structures to maintain constant temperatures.
At no time could the six internal heat sensors read a temperature structures 53 feet above 160F during the curing process.
Glycol was needed to keep our system from freezing in winter.
in the air We set our chillers at five different locations to facilitate concrete pours each between 350 and 500 yards.
G etting the temperature just right, during the winter, for a project of this scale was a massive achievement for our team.
Tom Smith Strategic Account Manager, Industrial Climate Control 14 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INCREASING OUR SHARE IN THE US MARKET 03 US MARKET SHARE 04 US MARKET SHARE DEVELOPMENT % United Rentals 10% 15 Sunbelt 7% Herc Rentals 3% Home Depot 1% BlueLine Rentals 1% Sunstate 1% Top 710 4% Top 11100 c. 16% Others c. 57% 7 Source: Management estimate based on IHS Markit market estimates.
Our own development and use of The diversity of our fleet helps us take technology is also driving rental advantage of the increasing trend to rental penetration.
Our highly sophisticated and we continue to expand the range of proprietary customer management, products we rent.
If your fleet consists of We are confident inventory and delivery tracking systems equipment which is predominantly rented, enable us to make our customers rental like telehandlers and large booms, you are experience one of availability, reliability that as the market not necessarily benefitting from increased and ease what we refer to as ARE.
rental penetration as it is probably as high Our customers are increasingly willing to as it is likely to get.
If however you have grows, our share rent different types of equipment from us, a broader mix of fleet, then there is more often.
More on this in the section significant further upside to come from will also increase.
on strategy on page 24. rental penetration.
CANADA The combination of increased Canada continues to be a long-term environmental regulations leading to growth opportunity for us.
There is plenty higher replacement costs, more stringent of scope to develop market share in health and safety requirements, and Canada in the same way as in the US.
technological advancements also make The business there is now two-thirds renting a more attractive proposition.
larger than the previous year but it is still For example, environmental regulations very small.
We are focusing first on the have driven further rental penetration southwest corner of Canada where we through the reduction in fleet size by have opened a series of greenfields those customers who previously may and made a number of small bolt-on have chosen to own some, if not all, of their acquisitions to expand the business.
Customers and In the long term, our goal is to achieve smaller competitors with older fleets are market share of 5% and for Canada faced with heavier replacement spend.
to make up between 15-20% of the The difficulties of getting to grips with new technology and maintenance requirements North American business.
have also caused more operators to decide to rent.
Maintaining optimallyserviced and therefore safe equipment can be a big outlay for a smaller operator.
Therefore we continue to invest in keeping our fleet in the best condition it can be to take advantage of the increased demand for rental.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 15 OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Market share THE UK We continue to be the largest equipment Economic resilience rental company in the UK.
There are a The UK market is stronger than in recent years and we expect it to continue to grow, greater number of major players in the A-Plant continues albeit more moderately, for the foreseeable UK market and, as the largest, we only future.
Structural growth opportunities have a 7% market share.
Chart 06 shows to grow, making are more difficult to come by because of our key competitors and their share of an already high level of rental penetration.
We believe we continue to be Nonetheless, A-Plant continues to grow, well-positioned in the market with our bolt-on acquisitions making bolt-on acquisitions and also strong customer service, good relative taking market share.
Chart 05 shows the fleet age and strong balance sheet.
and also taking outlook for UK construction which shows We continue to broaden our customer continuing growth.
Given the good overall base and have focused our investment market share.
construction market, with 40% still being on specialty sectors within the market.
public and infrastructure, even with This has proven very successful in growing residential performing well, we will both our market share and returns.
continue to invest responsibly in the UK market.
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION We provided floor scrubbers, tanks and Distribution facilities pumps to get rid of the mess and waste water need to be rid of We provided 12 ride-on floor scrubbers to extract the accumulated snow melt.
Since the distribution facilities snow melt brought were not equipped with appropriate waste water dumping systems, we also supplied 15 330-gallon in by trucks storage tanks for the waste water and 12 small pumps to get the waste water from the scrubbers to the tanks.
Our customer was delighted with their new clean, dry distribution environment.
O ur different divisions worked together to provide a solution.
Scrubbers came from Flooring Solutions and the small pumps and hoses were sourced from Pump and Power and General Tool.
Adam Camhi Regional Sales Manager, Flooring Solutions 16 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GROWING OUR SHARE OF THE UK MARKET 05 UK CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY FORECASTS 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 % of m constant 2013 prices actual actual forecast forecast projection total Residential 41,118 45,190 46,093 46,649 46,849 32% 9.9% 2.0% 1.2% 0.4% Private commercial 39,246 41,356 41,229 40,346 40,412 28% 5.4% -0.3% -2.1% 0.2% Public and infrastructure 54,022 51,037 51,994 54,018 57,052 40% -5.5% 1.9% 3.9% 5.6% Total 134,386 137,583 139,316 141,013 144,313 100% 2.4% 1.3% 1.2% 2.3% Source: Construction Products Association Spring 2017.
06 UK MARKET SHARE A-Plant 7% HSS 6% Speedy 6% VP 4% GAP 3% Lavendon 2% Others 72% Source: Management estimates based on IHS Markit market estimates.
OUR SOLUTION We provided on-site, round-the-clock access to all equipment needed We provided a customised on-site Tool Trailer, delivered directly to the plant, complete with hand and power tools, consumables like safety glasses, hard hats and gloves, air tools, welding equipment, light towers, industrial fork lifts, aerial work platforms and generators.
We also provided 24 7 access to the on-site tools and equipment, an on-site manager working to manage customer needs, real-time utilisation reporting and a dedicated mechanic.
P reparation for plant outages starts months in advance because plants are often situated in rural areas, miles THE CHALLENGE away from equipment rental providers, and waiting for Massive power equipment is never an option.
We provided everything plant shuts down for needed ready for round-theroutine maintenance clock maintenance.
and needs the right Melissa Navratil Key Account Representative, tools for the job Industrial Services Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 17
