STRATEGIC REVIEW MAKING IT HAPPEN CONSISTENTLY AND OVER THE LONG TERM We are delighted to report that this financial year was another record-breaking one for Ashtead.
The combination of our strategy and strong end markets means we continue to grow our business and our profitability.
The economic environment continues to help us but the underlying strength of our GEOFF DRABBLE business makes that an added bonus rather CHIEF EXECUTIVE than something we depend on to grow.
As such, our strategy remains predominantly the same, with some enhancements to enable us to capitalise further on our markets increasing level of comfort with renting rather than owning equipment.
That strategy is focused on same-store growth, supplemented by greenfield openings and bolt-on acquisitions, whilst delivering the highest levels of customer service.
This year we developed and rolled out in the US, our next five-year plan, Project 2021.
This plan develops our existing growth strategy and you can read more about it in our section on strategy on page 24.
The majority of our growth still comes from the US and two-thirds of that continues to come from what we call structural growth.
Our customers increasingly rely on the flexibility of rental SUZANNE WOOD and are more open to renting new types FINANCE DIRECTOR of equipment for different applications.
We are also seeing the impact of cyclical improvement but it is the structural part of the equation that is most exciting and which will drive our long-term growth.
Our Group rental revenue was up 13% on a constant currency basis.
Because so much of our revenue is denominated in US dollars, we have benefitted from weaker sterling giving reported rental revenue growth of 28%.
Sunbelts rental revenue growth was 12% compared to 18% the previous year.
This compares to overall US rental market growth of 4%.
Our same-store growth was 7% showing that we continue to outperform the market due to our strategy and the continuing structural change, with the balance coming from bolt-ons and greenfields.
10 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our healthy margins, strong balance sheet and future plans allow us to continue to CREATING A WELL-BALANCED BUSINESS invest in the business for the long term.
In the US, we invested $1,041m in the rental fleet, 80% of which was in samestore growth, which is the most profitable.
We spent an additional $476m on bolt-ons and, with greenfields, added a total of 73 new locations, 69 in the US and 4 in SEE HOW WE CAPITALISE ON THE US MARKET SHARE DEVELOPMENT % Canada.
Canada remains a small market MARKET OPPORTUNITY for us but one which we expect to generate We are building market share through 15 strong growth in the long term.
same-store growth, new greenfield investments, selected bolt-on A-Plant also had a good year generating acquisitions and the expansion of our rental revenue growth of 16%.
5 46m on four specialty bolt-on acquisitions.
4 A number of these investments were made 2 PAGE 12 in the seasonally quieter second half of 2002 2007 2013 2017 Target the year and we incurred one-off costs associated with their acquisition and DISCOVER MORE ABOUT HOW WE integration.
As a result, margins remained CREATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE broadly flat over the year.
A-Plant, like Our equipment rental business model, Sunbelt, continues to gain market share 01 02 and the management of that over the and we are confident margins will improve economic cycle, enable us to create and set new highs once integration long-term sustainable value.
of newly acquired assets is complete.
04 03 The strength of our underlying cash flow PAGE 18 means that, after acquisition expenditure of 437m in both the US and UK, as well as increasing our dividend and repurchasing shares, we were still able to maintain our LEARN ABOUT OUR STRATEGY leverage within our target range.
BUILD A BROAD PLATFORM FOR GROWTH FOR GROWTH We focus on building market share, We remain confident of continuing future maintaining flexibility in our finances growth in both the US and UK.
The US and operations, and being the best we market, in particular, is evolving such OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE can be every day.
that we are creating new types of rental products that simply didnt exist before.
For example, our flooring business which MAINTAIN FINANCIAL AND PAGE 24 OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY began in 2015.
Until we began renting flooring equipment, there was no such market in the US.
We are always on the lookout for new products we can rent.
FIND OUT ABOUT OUR RISKS Our attitude is to just say yes and we Our main risks relate to economic OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES delight in solving customers problems conditions, competition, financing, and making things easy for them.
business continuity, people, health and safety, the environment and laws In addition, we are focused increasingly and regulations.
on expanding rental at the smaller end of our fleet, equipment that still represents PAGE 34 a significant cost when owned, but which has not traditionally been part of the rental mix.
For example, we launched a new programme called ToolFlex read more SEE HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2017 UNDERLYING EPS p on page 27 to make renting smaller We had another year of strong financial equipment as cost effective and easy performance, improved operational 104 as renting our larger fleet.
efficiency and excellent service metrics.
85 63 In line with Project 2021 see page 24, PAGE 38 47 we anticipate this year to be the first of five 31 years of double-digit compound growth and strong cash generation.
We believe 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 that current policy proposals in the US from the new administration will likely lengthen the current economic cycle and LEARN ABOUT HOW WE ENSURE WE ARE there is potential for further investment in A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS line with our capital allocation priorities to We report on responsible business through enhance shareholder value.
We will open the Group Risk Committee.
We focus c. 60 new locations by way of greenfields on health and safety, our people, the and bolt-ons next year and continue to be environment, community investment and very positive about the future direction ensuring the highest ethical standards of the Group.
PAGE 46 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 11
