OUR STRATEGY PROJECT 2021 We remain a cyclical business but increasingly the level of structural change in our markets, particularly in the US, combined with our proven strategy, makes us better able to capitalise on a good economic environment and be more resilient to economic downturn.
From 2011 to 2016 we achieved 22% compound annual growth in the US, of which two-thirds was from structural changes.
We have put in place a development of our existing strategy, Project 2021, which aims to continue our growth through same-store investment, greenfields and bolt-ons over the next five years.
Our markets are full of potential at the moment and we do not see that changing in the short term.
If the situation does change we will be well prepared.
We are always conservative in our approach to maintaining a stable and secure balance sheet throughout the cycle and this enables us to maintain the flexibility we require to manage changes to the business and its environment as and when they occur.
Our focus remains on responsible growth.
Our goal in the medium to long term is to double our market share in the US and grow it by 50% in the UK.
We believe these are realistic goals given the way the rental market is evolving and the way we do business.
Consistent implementation of our strategy across the economic cycle will ensure we are in a strong position at all times to take advantage of the opportunities presented.
Our Project 2021 plan is to grow to 875 locations in the US and be a $5bn revenue business by 2021.
The risks that we face in implementing this strategy are discussed on pages 34 to 36.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Build a broad platform for growth STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIVES UPDATE RELEVANT KPIs & RISKS Target 15% US market Same-store fleet growth 7% US market share KPIs share Greenfield expansion 16% increase in North American Fleet on rent Take 5% Canadian rental fleet at cost Bolt-on M&A Risks market share 17% increase in North American fleet Develop specialty products Competition Increase UK market on rent share by 50% Develop diversified clusters People 49 greenfield openings in in key areas North America Increased focus on renting $476m spent on North American out non-traditional rental acquisitions equipment 46m spent on UK acquisitions Operational excellence STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIVES UPDATE RELEVANT KPIs & RISKS Improve operational Operational improvement: Continued focus on improvement KPIs capability and programmes designed to deliver delivery cost recovery Underlying EBITDA effectiveness improved dollar utilisation and fleet efficiency margins EBITDA margins Continued focus on Increased use of technology RoI service to drive optimal service and Fleet on rent revenue growth Staff turnover ARE initiative: Availability, Reliability, Ease Safety Focus on culture Risks People Health and safety 24 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Maintain financial and operational flexibility STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIVES UPDATE RELEVANT KPIs & RISKS RoI above 15% for the Driving improved dollar Strong RoI at 17% 2016: 19% KPIs Group utilisation Sunbelt dollar utilisation of 53% RoI Maintain leverage in Maintain drop through rates 2016: 56% Dollar utilisation the range 1.5 to 2 times Increasing US store maturity A-Plant dollar utilisation of 51% net debt to EBITDA Underlying EBITDA 2016: 52% Maintaining financial margins Ensure financial discipline Fall through of 57% and 35% in Sunbelt firepower at bottom Leverage and A-Plant of cycle for next Optimise fleet profile and age Net debt step-change during the cyclical upturn Sunbelt EBITDA margin improved to 49% 2016: 48% Risks A-Plant EBITDA margin of 37% Economic conditions 2016: 38% Competition Leverage of 1.7 times EBITDA Financing Fleet age remains stable and appropriate at this stage of the cycle: Sunbelt 29 months 2016: 25 months A-Plant 29 months 2016: 27 months BUILDING A BROAD PLATFORM 08 MARKET SHARE AND GROWTH STRATEGY FOR GROWTH The first of our strategic priorities is to build a broad platform for same-store growth supplemented by small bolt-on acquisitions and new greenfield sites.
You can see from the maps opposite how we have made an enormous impact on the US market since 2012 and how much potential there still is to grow.
We have added over 250 new locations over the last five years.
Anything in green on the map is where we already have over 10% market share.
Areas in dark green are where we have over 15%.
It is only a matter of time HAWAII HAWAII before we achieve similar results across a broader geography because we now APRIL 2012 have the scale, competitive advantage and balance sheet strength to reach our targets.
We believe there is significant opportunity for expansion in both existing and new geographies, with the ability to add around a further 250 locations.
There is a drag on margins when we open new stores but they improve quickly as they deliver more revenue and later broaden the fleet and customer mix.
The same happens with acquisitions because we buy businesses that we can improve, either operationally or through additional investment, or both.
However, our focus HAWAII HAWAII remains on same-store growth because once a store has been open for 12 months, it has average growth of 7% and it APRIL 2017 generates the best returns.
This is part cyclical market growth of 4% and part structural growth of 3%.
So even if the Growth Market share % market stops growing, our stores dont Stores April 2012 because that structural part of the growth S tore growth May 2012 to April 2017 is independent of the market.
This is why 0 10 15 we are consistently able to outperform both our competitors and the market.
The strength of our brand and reputation means that new greenfield sites become profitable very quickly.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 25 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Specialty markets are typically 09 SOURCES OF REVENUE GROWTH YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2017 characterised by low rental penetration and a predominance of small local players.
We continue to see further opportunity as we consolidate and improve the service offering leading to market growth from 7% 7% 14% increased rental penetration as our SAME-STORE BOLT-ONS AND TOTAL RENTAL ONLY customers become accustomed to the GROWTH GREENFIELDS REVENUE GROWTH quality of our offering.
As mentioned elsewhere we are building our rental penetration through expansion of the types of equipment we rent.
As well as our specialty businesses, we are 3% 4% increasingly focused on developing the STRUCTURAL rental penetration of the smaller end of our END MARKET GROWTH SHARE GAINS product range.
Chart 11 opposite shows how the largest equipment in our fleet has high levels of rental penetration while the smaller, but often still costly to own, Chart 09 shows the revenue growth We are always on the lookout for the best equipment has not traditionally been and mix from bolt-on acquisitions and opportunities and the flexibility in our a large part of the rental mix.
When we add the 7% model enables us to act quickly when we growth from our bolt-on acquisitions and need to, whether that be opening a new greenfield sites, total revenue growth greenfield site or making an acquisition.
becomes 14%, of which two-thirds is We are also flexible in the mix of structural and not driven by market greenfields and bolt-on acquisitions growth.
Our strategy capitalises on both depending on the opportunities we see.
structural and cyclical factors to drive In March 2017, we acquired Pride 10 BUSINESS MIX our revenue growth.
Equipment Corporation in New York.
This enhances our presence in the important 2007 Structural growth is people choosing to New York City market and accelerates a rent more equipment increased rental couple of planned greenfields and some penetration and the big getting bigger growth capital expenditure.
We are able diversifying the business is also a priority to keep growing because we prioritise and opportunities that allow us to do investment in the fleet and have the so further and expand our specialty financial security to be able to do that.
businesses are particularly key to our Our customers want good quality fleet, strategy of building a broader base readily available to meet their needs.
Investing in a broad range of fleet and backing that up with great service means Our specialty businesses are a strategic our customers remain loyal and do not priority and have grown from 16% of our Construction 55% need to look elsewhere.
Prioritising higher business in 2011 to 21% in 2017.
This year Non-construction 45% return on investment RoI products 25 of our 49 greenfield openings in North further helps our growth.
America were specialty stores and we added seven through acquisition.
The 2017 growth in our Climate Control specialty business means we are now the largest spot climate control business in the US.
We aim to build specialty businesses generating $1bn of revenue in time.
We have always said we wanted to reduce our dependence on the construction industry.
The increase in our specialty businesses is one way in which we have increased the ratio of our non-construction business as can be seen in chart 10.
Construction 48% Non-construction 52% 26 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 11 RENTAL PENETRATION: THE PRODUCT RANGE HIGH LOW One of the ways that we are encouraging Our cluster approach is also an important We have found that these markets, while customers to think about hiring smaller aspect of building a broad platform for performing less well than others overall, tools is by making it as easy and cost growth.
Our greenfield sites are chosen often prove more resilient when times are effective to hire small tools as it is to hire carefully to enhance our existing business.
Our definition of a cluster in larger equipment.
For example, ToolFlex We focus on building clusters of stores these markets is now two or more stores.
is a subscription-type service that allows because, as can be seen in chart 12 below This change in our definitions means customers to hire and exchange a set which analyses performance over the we have fewer clusters than before but, number of tools and equipment as often period from 2010 11 to 2015 16, our we believe, more opportunity from the as they want for a flat fee per month.
clusters grow more quickly and have ones we have.
This fee is cheaper than if the items better margins and RoI.
were to be hired individually and the We have also re-evaluated the composition programme is proving very popular As part of Project 2021 we have changed of an optimal cluster.
We are now focused with smaller customers.
our definition of clusters based on the size on ensuring our clusters meet the of the market.
A top 25 market cluster multiple needs of local customers even must now have more than 10 stores, a top if that means some stores may appear 26-50 market cluster more than seven superficially to perform less well than stores and a top 51-100 market more than others.
The interaction of the stores in four stores.
We now also include the a group is what gives us real competitive smaller 101-210 markets within our cluster advantage.
We find that having one large analysis which we did not do before.
anchor location is highly desirable and we like to mix up the large equipment locations with smaller general tool stores.
12 CLUSTERS A PROVEN TRACK RECORD OF ENHANCED PERFORMANCE % 17 38 38 27 27 10 10 36 36 23 23 14 5 5 Same-store EBITA m argin RoI Market sh are rental revenue CAGR FY11FY16 Cluster Non-clustered Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 27 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED 13 SIGNIFICANT OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD OUT FURTHER CLUSTERS Rental markets Top 25 2650 51100 101210 Rental market % 56% 19% 16% 9% Customers Cluster definition 10 7 4 1 Clustered 11 markets 10 markets 3 markets 14 markets rental experience 176 stores 101 stores 20 stores 33 stores Non-clustered 14 markets 15 markets 44 markets 38 markets should be one 95 stores 68 stores 81 stores 38 stores No presence 0 0 3 58 of availability, The addition of specialty stores serves store moves quickly up the revenue curve reliability and ease.
to really differentiate us from any because we are already well known for competitors in the area.
The knock-on what we do and how we do it.
Our mantra effect of this is that average revenue per is that our customers rental experience In Sunbelt, we have three main categories store is no longer a relevant measure with should be one of availability, reliability and of customers whose service needs vary which to evaluate the success of individual ease ARE.
Getting these aspects right depending on their size.
Our smallest clusters or even the business as a whole.
customers have rental revenue spend The value is in the mix.
with us of less than $20,000 a year but We want our customers to be delighted represent 97% of our customers by OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE by our service and our culture empowers number.
These smaller customers tend The second of our strategic priorities is staff to do the right thing and get things to require higher levels of service but constantly improving our operational done.
The Ashtead culture is one of can incur a higher transactional cost.
capability and effectiveness, doing what we empowered entrepreneurship where Our medium-sized customers often need do to the very best of our ability.
Customer staff pay just as much attention to our equipment for longer periods of time service is a crucial element of this and we small customers as to our larger ones.
and can command a discounted service.
continue to build market share because Maintaining low staff turnover and high Our largest customers are our national we are in the right locations and providing staff safety levels are crucial to our accounts who have large-scale and often better equipment with a higher quality strategy for operational excellence very sophisticated requirements.
We have of service than our competitors.
Our and you can read more about these gained significant market share in all types reputation for good service is now such in our Responsible business report of customer due, in part, to the strength that when we open a new location that on page 46. of the relationships we build.
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION We supplied a purpose-built beam to A cinema complex provide safe and cost effective lifting construction project Two void spaces either side of the main construction opening used for loading and unloading at a cinema needs a lifting complex in the West Midlands meant no heavy equipment could be placed there.
Our specialty solution for heavy lifting business, FLG Services, provided a purpose built beam to span the void and enable engineers equipment to carry out safe lifting operations.
The design and erection of the 10 metre beam on portable gantry legs, allowed the operator to lift, move and lower material via a powered electric chain block.
Our specialist lifting expertise was put to great use designing and supplying an innovative and cost-effective long-term solution to our customers construction site lifting needs.
Matt Hood Regional Operations Manager, FLG Services 28 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OUR SOLUTION We supplied a huge variety of equipment and tools to support this prestigious project The construction of the National Veterans Memorial & Museum, a facility designed to celebrate and honour all veterans, is underway in Columbus, Ohio.
The project is led by primary contractor Turner Construction and supported by subcontractor Baker Concrete.
Weve supplied everything from straight boom manlifts and skidsteers to construct rebar enforcements, as well as industrial heaters to help shape the concrete into the unique circular design of the project.
The breadth of our fleet means we can meet any THE CHALLENGE construction challenge.
National Veterans Were honoured to be involved in such an important Memorial & Museum project as the National construction team Veterans Memorial and Museum.
needs wide range Steve Caldwell of equipment Regional Vice President Our focus on operational excellence range, see what theyve rented recently, We continue to be focused on optimising across the board drives our financial request service or a pickup, extend their dollar utilisation the rental revenue performance.
Improving operational contract, see store locations, log their return over the original cost of any of our efficiency is an ongoing focus and we favourite equipment, etc.
Our sales reps equipment and driving improvement in constantly strive to maintain high levels have access to all of this information, margins through strong drop through the of fleet on rent, improve the organisation as well as a very powerful CRM customer proportion of incremental rental revenue of our stores, analyse how we load our relationship management tool, Accelerate, that drops through to EBITDA.
This year, delivery trucks, optimise our delivery and which enables them to find out where 57% of revenue growth at Sunbelt dropped pick-up routes and how we spend time available equipment is located, customer through to EBITDA.
Drop through reflects at the customer location, for example.
contacts, preferences and potential needs, the drag effect of yield, greenfield openings As with any multi-location business, all and all other information relevant to and acquisitions.
Stores open for more locations are good at some of this, some serving the customer.
Finally, our Vehicle than one year saw 60% of revenue growth locations are good at all of it our goal Delivery Optimisation System VDOS drop through to EBITDA.
Sustaining and is for all locations to be good at all of it.
is used by dispatchers to manage pickup improving our EBITDA margins is key to and deliveries of equipment at job sites, our success.
The annual drop through of Technology is increasingly playing a big part and schedule drivers who are able 57% is a testament to the benefits of being in delivering availability, reliability and ease to access it on their mobile phones.
selective in the business we take and our to customers, as we develop proprietary There are vast amounts of data behind stable and efficient business model.
The applications to improve the rental process.
these applications which we reference fact that, despite a significant investment Sunbelts complete digital eco-system to make efficiency gains, add depth to in greenfields, our margins improved, begins with our online Command Centre, our growth strategy and provide more demonstrates the potential for further including a mobile app, where customers accurate strategic forecasts.
A-Plants focus is can see everything to do with their account.
the same with 35% of revenue growth They can track what equipment they have dropping through to EBITDA and on rent, order new items from the entire maintaining a margin of 37% 2016: 38%.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 29 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY THE CHALLENGE Maintaining financial and operational flexibility enables us to flex our business and operational models through the Music festival organisers economic cycle.
As we have said elsewhere, this enables us to react quickly want a floating stage to both negative changes in the market and opportunities of which we want to in the middle of a lake take advantage.
The more growth we experience and plan for, the more financial and operational flexibility we need.
A key element of our strategy is ensuring we have the financial strength to enable growth when appropriate and make our returns sustainable.
Having a strong balance sheet is fundamental to our success at all stages in the cycle.
A core element of our financial stability comes from our strategy of ensuring that, averaged across the economic cycle, we always deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
RoI through the cycle is the key measure for any rental company and the best medium-term indicator of the strength of the business.
We do this in a variety of ways at different stages of the cycle, all focused on the effective management of invested capital and financial discipline.
The maturity of our stores has a big impact OUR SOLUTION on RoI.
This is because as stores mature and get bigger and broaden their fleet Our events specialty business designs and range there is natural margin and returns installs a safe and steady solution progression.
Stores that were greenfield sites only two years ago are now already The Latitude festival organisers asked our specialist adding same-store growth.
We are always Live events business to construct a floating stage.
focused on moving new and young stores To be totally safe, we designed a solution for up the maturity curve as there is scope installing our track panels at the bottom of the for higher returns as they do so.
This also parks lake on which the stage could be installed.
means that we are now at a very different The bungs in the panels, which usually prevent dirt stage in our evolution relative to the entering, were removed, allowing water to fill the current economic cycle to where we were chambers and help keep the panels submerged.
We have more stores overall and they are larger than at the peak of the last cycle, so we are much better placed to weather the next downturn when it comes, Coming up with innovative festival as we know it will.
solutions is always fun and this We have, over recent years, been one was particularly interesting.
consistent in our commitment to both After weeks of planning, low leverage and a young fleet age and we are now benefitting from the options the stage installation that this strategy has provided.
As our was complete in fleet replacement expenditure remains around an hour!
moderate, we are in a phase of the cycle where we anticipate both good earnings John Bond growth and significant cash generation.
Senior Contracts Engineer, Live Trakway 30 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION A strong balance sheet is fundamental to our success at all stages in the cycle.
Traditionally, rental companies have only proportion of their fleet needs to be or three years and our strong cash generated cash in a downturn when they replaced in the near future at much higher generation will continue.
While we will reduce capital expenditure and age their prices.
We get significant competitive flex short-term spend to reflect market fleet.
In the upturn, they consume cash as advantage from our younger fleet and conditions, we are committed to our they replace their fleets and then seek to our purchasing power.
Our strong balance long-term structural growth.
We are in a highly cash generative sheet allows us to capitalise on this again we will be opening around 60 new phase as we continue to grow the business advantage in both North America and locations in North America by way of in a cyclical upturn.
greenfield and bolt-ons next year and our leverage would trend naturally expect to continue to do so in the medium towards the lower end of our target range From this position of strength in the term.
We anticipate market leading of 1.5 to 2.0 times net debt to EBITDA up-cycle, we can ensure we have sufficient growth in both divisions but with the added which provides the Group with significant financial resources at the bottom of the benefit of significant cash generation.
However, we cycle to prepare for the next step-change believe that the current cycle will likely be in the market and capitalise on growth In 2008 and 2009 our financial and lengthened by current policy proposals in opportunities in the early stages of the operational flexibility enabled us to the US, if enacted, and therefore we do not next recovery.
adjust our fleet spend more quickly and need to be towards the lower end of our aggressively than the rest of the market leverage range at this stage.
This gives us In terms of fleet investment, we are as we entered a downturn in the cycle.
even more flexibility to invest in growth.
replacing 2009, 2010 and 2011 spend Our model is very flexible and has proven which were low spend years at the bottom itself to be adjustable very quickly, when The typical fleet age profile of our of the last cycle.
Therefore, the lower market conditions require.
We are very customers and some of our smaller replacement capital expenditure seen conscious that we have to know both competitors means that a greater this year will continue over the next two when to spend and when not to.
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION We supplied variable message signs London Mayor with dedicated operators to manage the 110,000 crowd needs help Our specialist traffic management business directing crowds A-Plant Lux was again asked to supply variable message signs VMSs for the Mayors New at New Years Eve Years Eve fireworks to help manage the crowd for the Metropolitan Police.
Our 31 VMSs were fireworks display stationed at strategic points around central London including four in Trafalgar Square.
We had eight Traffic Management Operatives looking after the signs on the night and a dedicated manager in the main control room under the London Eye.
Its always great to be involved in such high profile events.
We take pride in helping ensure the safety of all the people who travel to celebrate the New Year with the annual fireworks display.
Michael Baird-Parker Regional Contract Manager, A-Plant Lux Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 31
