70 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report The Group has facilities from a number Financial and business Internal controls and offinancial institutions, none of which are reporting risk management repayable before May 2021 other than The Directors present their Annual Report The Board accepts and acknowledges modest annual amortisation.
In addition and Accounts on the affairs of the Group, that it is both accountable and tosurplus available cash of 26.7 million together with the financial statements responsible for ensuring that the Group at 31 March 2018 2017: 23.3 million, and auditors report, for the year ended has in place appropriate and effective theGroup has undrawn facilities of 31 March 2018.
The Corporate riskmanagement and internal control 170million at the balance sheet date.
Governance Statement set out on systems, including financial, operational page44 forms part of this report.
The Groups primary care property developments in progress are all The Directors Report and the other The Board monitors these systems on substantially pre-let.
sections of this Annual Report contain anongoing basis and this years review forward-looking statements.
The extent found them to be operating effectively.
The Group has adequate headroom in its to which the Companys shareholders or banking covenants.
The Group has been anyone may rely on these forward-looking Dividends in compliance with all financial covenants statements is set out on page 111.
Details of the dividend can be found on its loans throughout the year.
The Group Principal activities benefits from brought forward tax losses, The Groups properties are substantially Assura plc is a leading primary care which resulted in three of the four let with rent paid or reimbursed by the property investor and developer.
It owns dividends paid during the year being paid NHS and they benefit from a weighted and procures good quality primary care as ordinary dividends.
The October 2017 average lease length of 12.6 years.
dividend was paid as a PID.
Theyare diverse both geographically andbylotsize and therefore The subsidiary and associated Details of the Groups dividend policy representexcellent security.
undertakings are listed in Note 9 canbe found in the business review totheaccounts.
The Groups financial forecasts show thatborrowing facilities are adequate and Business review Supplier payment policy the business can operate within these The Group is required to include a The Group has not signed up to any facilities and meet its obligations when business review in this report.
The specific supplier payment code: it is they fall due for the foreseeable future.
information that fulfils the requirements Assuras policy to comply with the terms The Directors believe that the business ofthe business review can be found of payment agreed with its suppliers.
iswell placed to manage its current and onpages 38 to 43, which are Where specific payment terms are not reasonably possible future risks successfully.
incorporated in this report by reference.
agreed, the Group endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard payment terms.
Accordingly, the Board considers it Going concern As at 31 March 2018, the average number appropriate that the financial statements Assuras business activities together of days taken by the Group to pay its have been prepared on a going concern withfactors likely to affect its future suppliers was 12 days 2017: 10 days.
basis of accounting and there are no performance are set out in the business material uncertainties to the Companys review on pages 38 to 43.
In addition, Directors liability insurance ability to continue to prepare them on this Note 22 to the accounts includes the The Company has arranged insurance basis over a period of at least 12 months.
Groups objectives, policies and cover in respect of legal action against processes for managing its capital, its itsDirectors.
Long-term viability statement financial risk management objectives, The Companys viability statement is on details of its financial instruments and its page 33. exposure tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 71 making decisions that might affect their Donations interests.
Assura encourages openness In the year to 31 March 2018, Assura and transparency, with staff having regular donated 23,000 to charities 2017: access to the Directors and being given 24,850, all of which were UK registered the opportunity to express views charities, and no contributions were made and opinions.
More details of our chosen charities can be The Group is committed to the promotion found on our website.
of equal opportunities, supported by its Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy.
Employees The policy reflects both current legislation Employees are encouraged to maximise and best practice.
It highlights the Groups their individual contribution to the Group.
obligations to race, gender and disability Inaddition to competitive remuneration equality.
Full and fair consideration is given packages, they participate in an annual to applications for employment from bonus scheme which links personal disabled persons and appropriate training contribution to the goals of the business.
and career development are provided.
Outperformance against the annual targets can result in a bonus award proportionate Share capital to the individuals contribution.
Employees As at 31 March 2018, the issued share are provided regularly with information capital of the Company is 2,383,122,112 regarding progress against the budget, Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
financial and economic factors affecting Authority wasobtained at the 2017 AGM the businesss performance and other for the purchase of up to 10% of share matters of concern to them.
In addition, all capital, ifdeemed appropriate by the staff are eligible to participate in a defined Directors.
This expires at the conclusion contribution pension scheme.
employees are taken into account when Interests in voting rights As at 18 May 2018, the Company had been notified of the following interests in accordance with DTR 5: 31 March 2018 18 May 2018 Percentage of Percentage of Ordinary Ordinary Name of shareholder Shares Shares Invesco Limited 11.97 10.99 BlackRock Inc. 9.45 no change Artemis Investment Management 8.71 no change Standard Life Aberdeen 6.27 no change Schroders plc 6.12 5% Resolution Capital Limited 5.29 6.29 Legal & General Group plc 3.01 no change 72 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report continued Price risk, credit risk, liquidity Auditor Amendments to the Articles risk and cash flow risk Each of the persons who is a Director at ofIncorporation Full details of how these risks are the date of approval of this Annual Report The Articles of Incorporation of the mitigated can be found in Note 22 confirms that: Company may be amended by special to theaccounts.
So far as the Director is aware, there is Future developments no relevant audit information of which Annual General Meeting Details of future developments are the Companys auditor is unaware: and The AGM of the Company will be held discussed on pages 38 to 41 in the The Director has taken all the steps atthe offices of CMS, Cannon Place, business review.
that he she ought to have taken as 78Cannon Street, London EC4N 6AF aDirector in order to make himself on10July 2018 at 11am.
Competition and Markets herself aware of any relevant audit Authority CMA Order information and to establish that Both the Directors Report and the The Company confirms that it has the Companys auditor is aware of Strategic Report were approved by complied with the Statutory Audit that information.
the Board and signed on its behalf.
Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of This confirmation is given and should Orla Ball be interpreted in accordance with the Competitive Tender Processes and Company Secretary AuditCommittee Responsibilities provisions of section 418 of the 22 May 2018 Companies Act 2006.
The Directors, on recommendation from Greenhouse gas emissions the Audit Committee, intend to place a resolution before the AGM to re-appoint The greenhouse gas emissions from the head office activities represented 94.1mt Deloitte LLP as auditor for the year ending 31 March 2019.
CO e 2017: 91.3mt CO e This has been 2 2 calculated by reference to kilowatt hours used and miles driven, with appropriate conversion factors applied.
com 73 Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for The Directors are responsible for the preparing the Annual Report and maintenance and integrity of the corporate thefinancial statements in accordance and financial information included on with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation intheUnited Kingdom governing the Company law requires the Directors preparation and dissemination of financial toprepare financial statements for statements may differ from legislation in eachfinancial year.
Under that law the other jurisdictions.
Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance We confirm that to the best of our with International Financial Reporting knowledge: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the The financial statements, prepared IAS Regulation and have also chosen to inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted prepare the Parent Company financial by the EU, give a true and fair view of statements under IFRSs as adopted by the assets, liabilities, financial position the EU.
Under company law the Directors and profit of the Company and the must not approve the financial statements undertakings included in the unless they are satisfied that they give a consolidation taken as a whole true and fair view of the state of affairs of The Strategic Report includes a fair the Company and of the profit or loss of review of the development and the Company for that period.
performance of the business and theposition of the Company and In preparing these financial statements, theundertakings included in the IAS 1 requires that Directors: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the Properly select and apply accounting principal risks and uncertainties policies thatthey face: and Present information, including The Annual Report and financial accounting policies, in a manner that statements, taken as a whole, is fair, provides relevant, reliable, comparable balanced and understandable and and understandable information provides the information necessary for Provide additional disclosures when shareholders to assess the Companys compliance with the specific position and performance, business requirements in IFRSs are insufficient model and strategy.
to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other By order of the Board events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Orla Ball Company Secretary performance: and Make an assessment of the 22 May 2018 Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
