Business model AstraZeneca at a glance summarises our business.
and life-cycle In this section, we review our business model ofamedicine how we create financial value and the resources we need in order to bring benefits to patients.
Why AstraZeneca We are a global pharmaceutical business which has: A science-led innovation strategy An R&D platform across small molecules andbiologics Three main therapy areas: Oncology: Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism: and Respiratory A portfolio of specialty care and primary caremedicines A global footprint Who we are Our Purpose We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Our Purpose underpins everything we do.
It gives us a reason to come to work every day.
It reminds us why we exist as a Company.
Ithelps us deliver benefits to patients and create valueforshareholders.
Our Values We follow the science.
Our Values determine how we work together and the behaviours thatdrive our success.
Our Values guide our decision making, defineour beliefs and foster a strong AstraZeneca culture.
Our Sustainability We are committed to operating in a way that recognises the interconnection between business growth, the needs of society andthe limitations of our planet.
Our sustainability priorities in health, ethics and the environment support the delivery of our business strategy.
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n e t a p f o n o i t a s i l a i c r e m m o c d n a g n i r u Strategic Report t c a s f r u a n e a y m 5, 1 t n 5 e s m e p s o a l h e p v e t d n e, y m r e p v o l o e c v s i e d d n d i n t a n e h c m r t a s e e s v e n R I What we do Our business activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
How we create financial value Investment Inputs Applying our We invest in the discovery, development, manufacturing resources to meet unmet and commercialisation of our pipeline of innovative small medical need Outputs molecule and biologic prescription medicines, including Improved health targeted business development through collaboration, Returns to 1 shareholders in-licensing and acquisitions.
2 Revenue generation 9 Our 3 We generate revenue from Product Sales of our existing Purpose medicines and Growth Platform launches, as well as from 8 4 our externalisation activities.
Our focus is on creating products that facilitate profitable future revenue 7 5 generation, while bringing benefits to patients.
6 Reinvestment We reinvest in developing the next generation of innovative medicines and in our Growth Platforms that provide the platform for future sources of revenue in the face of recent losses of key patents.
Life-cycle of a medicine Research and development phases 515 years Launch phase 515 years 1.
Launch new medicine Identify unmet medical need aligned with our Conduct studies on smallto medium-sized Raise awareness of patient benefit and three therapy areas and undertake scientific groups of patients to test effectiveness and appropriate use, market and sell medicine.
research to identify potential new medicines.
tolerability of the medicine and determine Clinicians begin to prescribe medicines Initiate process of seeking patent protection.
Design Phase III studies to generate data Continuously monitor, record and analyse needed for regulatory approvals and reported side effects.
Pre-clinical studies pricing reimbursement globally.
theside effect warnings to ensure that patients Conduct laboratory and animal studies to wellbeing is maintained.
understand if the potential medicine is safe to Assess real-world effectiveness, and 5.
Phase III studies introduce into humans and in what quantities.
opportunities to support patients and prescribers, Determine likely efficacy, side effect profile Engage in studies in a larger group of to achieve maximum benefit from the medicine.
patients to gather information about effectiveness and safety of the medicine 8.
Post-launch research and development and evaluate the overall benefit risk profile.
Phase I studies Initiate branding for the new medicine in Conduct studies to further understand the Begin clinical studies with small groups of healthy preparation for its launch.
benefit risk profile of the medicine in larger human volunteers small molecules or patients and or additional patient populations.
biologics to understand how the potential Life-cycle management activities to broaden 6.
Regulatory submission and pricing medicine is absorbed into the body, distributed understanding of a medicines full potential.
Seek regulatory approvals for Consider additional diseases or aspects of Determine approximate dosage and identify manufacturing, marketing and disease to be treated by or better ways of sideeffects.
Submit clinical data to regulatory Submit data packages with requests for life-cycle authorities and, if requested, generate management to regulatory authorities for review further data increasingly in real-world and approval.
settings to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the medicine to enable them to decide on whether to grant Post-exclusivity 20 years regulatoryapprovals.
Post-exclusivity Patent expiry and generic entry.
Note: This is a high-level overview of a medicines life-cycle and is illustrative only.
It is neither intended to, nor does it, represent the life-cycle of any particular medicine or of every medicine discovered and or developed by AstraZeneca, or the probability of success or approval of any AstraZeneca medicine.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Business model and life-cycle of a medicine 9 s n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R y t i v i s u s l r c a x e e y - t s o 0 P 2 s r a e y n 5 o 1 i t a 5 r e e s n a e h g p e u h n c e n v u e a R L s e n i Business model What does our business model and life-cycle require to be successful?
of a medicine continued A talented and diverse workforce We need to acquire, retain and develop 64,600 atalented and diverse workforce united employees inpursuit of our Purpose and Values and fostering a strong AstraZeneca culture.
A leadership position in science We need to achieve scientific leadership if we $5.9bn are to deliver life-changing medicines.
To that invested in our science end, we need to focus on innovative science, prioritise and accelerate our pipeline and transform our innovation and culture model.
S ee Achieve Scientific Leadership from page 25.
How we add value Improved health Continuous scientific innovation is Effective partnerships vital to achieving sustainable healthcare We need business development, specifically 630 which creates value by: partnering, which is an important element collaborations worldwide of our business model.
It supplements and improving health outcomes and strengthens our pipeline and our efforts to transforming patients lives achieve scientific leadership.
enabling healthcare systems to S ee Partnering on page 35. reducecosts and increase efficiency improving access to healthcare andhealthcare infrastructure Commercialisation skills helping develop the communities We need a strong global commercial presence and 100 inwhichwe operate through local skilled people to ensure that we can successfully countries in which employment and partnering.
launch our medicines, that they are available when we are active needed and that patients have access to them.
Financial value S ee Return to Growth from page 29.
Revenue from our Product Sales and externalisation activities generates cash flow, which helps us: Intellectual property IP We need to create and protect our IP rights.
100 fund our investment in science and Developing a new medicine requires significant countries where we Growth Platforms to drive long-term value investment over many years, with no guarantee of obtain patent protection follow our progressive dividend policy success.
For our investments to be viable, we seek meet our debt service obligations.
to protect new medicines from being copied for a reasonable period of time through patent protection.
This involves balancing the interests S ee Intellectual Property from page 35. of our business, financial creditors and shareholders.
A robust supply chain S ee Financial Review from page 74.
We need a supply of high-quality medicines, $13bn whether from one of the 29 Operations sites spent with suppliers in 17 countries in which we manufacture or the $13 billion we spend on the purchase of goods, services and active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs.
S ee Operations and Supply chain management from page 33.
Financial strength We need to be financially strong, including $2.6bn having access to equity and debt finance, net cash flow from to bear the financial risk of investing in the operating activities entire life-cycle of a medicine.
S ee Financial Review from page 74.
10 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report
