S St tra rate teg gi ic c R Re ep por ort t Marketplace Economic growth, an expanding global population and technological change are expected to contribute to growth in the pharmaceutical industry.
However, social, economic and political challenges remain in meeting unmet medical need.
A changing world NCDs kill 41 million people each year, disproportionately affecting lowand middle-income countries Growing and ageing populations, with increasing urbanisation Breakthroughs in digital and other technologies transforming the pharmaceutical industry Increasing demand for healthcare The US is the largest pharmaceutical market, with 47% of global sales Pharmaceutical sales growth of 4.4% in 2018, led by emerging markets Expected growth to 2022 will be led by the US and developing markets but with slower growth in China Pharmaceutical sector opportunities and challenges Pricing, regulation and patent exclusivity present opportunities as well as challenges The sector is reshaping itself at the same time as it seeks to develop trust with key stakeholders A changing world Society is changing Increasing burden of chronic disease $47tn An ageing population and changes in society are contributing to steady The WHO estimates that NCDs increases in non-communicable diseases NCDs with developing kill 41 million people each year countries particularly affected as their populations grow.
As the and could cost the global burden of NCDs grows, so do public expectations while governments economy$47 trillion by 2030. ability to meet them is constrained as finances are under stress.
Lowand middle-income countries are also disproportionately affected by issues such as air pollution and climate change, thereby exacerbating 75% social, economic and demographic inequalities.
NCDs disproportionately affect people in lowand middleGrowing societal expectation of businesses income countries where more Societys views of business are changing with organisations no than three quarters of global longer valued solely on the quality of products and services and NCD deaths 32 million occur.
financial performance, but also their engagement with employees, customers, communities and society as a whole.
Workforce dynamics are also changing for many as working for a single employer is 57% replaced by working independently in a number of different roles.
Between 2001 and 2020, the WHO estimates that chronic diseases will have increased by57%.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Marketplace 11 Marketplace continued A changing world continued Global growth is shifting Growing and ageing populations, increasing urbanisation Estimated world As shown on the right, patient populations are expanding.
For population UN, bn 3m example, the worlds population is rising and more people are living in Three million people per week 2100 11.2 cities, with an estimated three million people a week moving to cities in estimated to have moved to 2050 9.8 2015.
Urbanisation presents opportunities, such as greater wealth and citiesin2015.
2030 8.6 access to better healthcare, but also new hazards and healthcare 2018 7.6 challenges, such as an increase in the prevalence of NCDs.
These diseases include cancer and cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases which are often associated with urban lifestyle Estimated population choices, including smoking, diet and lack of exercise.
NCDs are also over the age of 60 WHO, bn 80% associated with ageing and, with the majority of the worlds By 2050, 80% of all older 2050 2.0 workforce rapidly ageing, healthcare costs are rising as people are people will live in lowand 2015 0.9 living longer.
In many markets, ageing populations mean the size of middle-income countries.
the labour force will stagnate or decline, resulting in a potential shortage of labour compared with the abundance of labour that has Denotes a scale break.
On the other hand, and as outlined below, technology is transforming the workplace.
Strong global economic growth, driven by Eastern economies With the rapid urbanisation of developing markets, such as China and India, economic growth is shifting east and away from advanced economies such as North America, Western Europe and Japan.
By some estimates, Africa could represent the fourth largest economy in the world by 2040 and, by 2050, India could overtake the US as the second largest economy.
So far as shorter-term economic trends are concerned, the October 2018 World Economic Outlook of the International Monetary Fund IMF continued to forecast strong economic growth.
However, it cautioned that the balance of risks has shifted to the downside in a context of elevated policy uncertainty.
Digital and technical breakthroughs Advances in digitisation, analytics, artificial intelligence AI and New entrants from the technology sector automation are redefining how business and industries work.
They are bringing different competencies to will transform the workplace and business processes as people healthcare and enabled by technology, interact with increasingly smarter machines.
patients are becoming more engaged New entrants from the technology sector are bringing different andwilling to take greater control of competencies to healthcare, applying their knowledge to accelerate scientific discovery, improve health through technology and better theirhealth and treatmentchoices.
At the same time, and enabled by technology, patients are becoming more engaged and willing to takegreater control of their health and treatment choices.
12 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Increasing demand for healthcare Global pharmaceutical sales As shown in the chart on the World $bn US $bn Europe $bn right, global pharmaceutical 2018 982 2018 464 2018 196 sales grew by 4.4% in 2018.
The US, $982bn 4.4% $464bn 4.5% $196bn 4.8% China, Japan, Germany and France are the worlds top five pharmaceutical markets by 2018 Denotes a scale break.
Established ROW $bn Emerging Markets $bn sales.
In 2018, the US had 47.2% Data based on world market sales using 2018 110 2018 211 of global sales 2017: 47.2%: AstraZeneca market definitions as set out in 2017 110 2017 199 the Market definitions on page 239.
2016 113 2016 185 IQVIA, IQVIA Midas Quantum Q3 2018 including US data.
Reported values and World $bn US $bn Europe $bn growth are based on CER.
Value figures are $110bn 0.1% $211bn 6.4% rounded to the nearest billion and growth 2018 982 2018 464 2018 196 percentages are rounded to the nearest tenth.
2017 940 2017 444 2017 187 2016 916 2016 437 2016 182 North America EU Other Europe Non-EU countries $982bn 4.4% $464bn 4.5% $196bn 4.8% $635bn $280bn $25bn 5.4% 3.1% 10.3% Established ROW $bn Emerging Markets $bn 2018 110 2018 211 2017 110 2017 199 Japan Oceania South East Asia and East Asia 2016 113 2016 185 $90bn $16bn $206bn -1.5% 1.1% 4.9% $110bn 0.1% $211bn 6.4% Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2022 Latin America Africa CIS $78bn $26bn $29bn The table on estimated North America EU Other Europe Non-EU countries 7.8% 7.3% 8.0% pharmaceutical sales and $635bn $280bn $25bn market growth to 2022 on the 5.4% 3.1% 10.3% right also illustrates that we Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2022.
Data is based on ex-manufacturer prices expect the established markets Middle East Indian subcontinent at CER.
inNorth America and developing Estimated pharmaceutical market growth.
$23bn $38bn markets, including Africa, CIS, Japan Oceania South East Asia and East Asia Data is based on the compound annual 3.9% 10.0% Indian subcontinent and Latin growth rate from 2017 to 2022.
$90bn $16bn $206bn America, to fuel pharmaceutical -1.5% 1.1% 4.9% growth.
Market growth in China is expected to remain below historical levels at a compound annual growth rate of 4.6%.
This Latin America Africa CIS is due to the continued slowdown $78bn $26bn $29bn of the major hospital sector.
Data is based on ex-manufacturer prices Middle East Indian subcontinent at CER.
Data is based on the compound 3.9% 10.0% annual growth rate from 2017 to 2022.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Marketplace 13 Marketplace continued F or more information, see Strategy from Pharmaceutical sector opportunities and challenges page 18, Key Performance Indicators In addition to the global trends set out on the previous pages, we also face a number of from page 20, Achieve Scientific opportunities and challenges within the pharmaceutical sector, as set out below.
Our strategy Leadership from page 25, Return to reflects our response to this environment and, where applicable, the relevant strategic Growth from page 29 and Be a Great Place to Work from page 38. response to each trend is highlighted below.
Advances in science and medicine Scientific innovation is critical to addressing The cost of developing new medicines continues to unmetmedical need.
The delivery of new medicines rise with annual global R&D investment estimated $150-160bn will rely on a more advanced understanding of the to be $150-160 billion.
Regulators and payers are Annual global R&D underlying biology of the disease, and the use of new demanding greater evidence of the comparative investment estimated technology and approaches.
These include genomics effectiveness of medicines.
On the other hand, a to be$150-160billion.
Scientific and technological greater emphasis on Proof of Concept is helping breakthroughs in small molecules and in biologics toimprove productivity and reduce costs by are also helping accelerate innovation.
Innovation showing the potential efficacy of drugs earlier in 59 will be accelerated through the use of large volumes the development process.
Against this background, The FDA approved 59 novel of biological data from disease biology and genomics the FDA approved 59 novel drugs in 2018 compared drugsin 2018 compared with which is driving precision medicine, while advances with 46 in 2017 and 22 in 2016.
Nevertheless, the 46in 2017 and 22 in 2016. in data management and data integration are risk of any products failing at the development improving the speed and quality of clinical trial orlaunch stages, or not securing regulatory processes.
Such advances have resulted in approvals, continues.
increasednumbers of FDA Priority Reviews andBreakthrough designations.
Link to strategy Achieve Scientific Leadership F or more information, seeRiskfrompage 220.
Regulatory environment The publics expectation of safe, effective and The implementation of the EU Clinical Trials We believe that high-quality medicines is reflected in a highly Regulation has also been delayed.
Nevertheless, transparency regulated biopharmaceutical industry.
At the same paediatrics and use of digital tools in clinical enhances the scientific time, we are seeing instances of government policy development, as well as patients access to and regulation being introduced to stimulate innovative medicines and stakeholders understanding of how innovation in drug development, and of regulatory interactions to improve drug development, our medicines work health authorities implementing programmes are high on the EU agenda.
intended to speed up patient access to transformative and is in the medical medicines.
Examples include the 21st Century Cures In biosimilar development, regulatory interest of our Act of 2016 and the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 requirementsfor the registration of biosimilar patients.
in the US, a new conditional early approval system in products are becoming better defined.
However, Japan and proposed changes to regulations in China.
significant areas of regulatory policy are still evolving.
Among these are transparency of data In addition, international harmonisation of regarding the level of evidence to support approval regulatory requirements is being advanced in ofclaims for biosimilarity in labelling, standards many areas through organisations such as the for interchangeability and pharmaceutical International Council for Harmonization ICH, the substitution, and traceability of pharmacovigilance Pharmaceutical Inspection Cooperation Scheme reports through naming conventions that permit PIC S, the Pan American Network for Drug differentiation of products.
Regulatory Harmonization PANDRH, and the International Conference of Drug Regulatory Increased transparency of data used for regulatory Authorities ICDRA.
decision making continues to be an area of interest to regulatory authorities in the EU and the US.
It There are also uncertainties.
In Europe, they has recently attracted interest elsewhere, such as include how the UK will work with the EU in Canada.
We believe that transparency enhances Link to strategy regulatory system following its planned exit the scientific understanding of how our medicines Achieve Scientific Leadership fromthe EU, the approach the UK will take to work and is in the medical interest of our patients.
establishing its own regulatory system outside F or more information, see Riskfrompage220.
For more theEU, and the relocation of the EMA from information about biosimilars, Londonto Amsterdam, Netherlands and the likely seeLoss of exclusivity and disruption this will cause to regulatory processes.
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Pricing of medicines Pricing and reimbursement remain challenging in Pricing controls and transparency measures We continue many markets.
We continue to see examples where remain a priority in key markets such as China, to see examples healthcare services including pharmaceuticals where the National Reimbursement Drug List where healthcare are highly regulated by governments, insurers and NRDL was updated in 2017.
In Europe, other private payers through various controls on governments continue to implement and expand services including pricing and reimbursement.
Implementation of price control measures for medicines, and the EU pharmaceuticals cost-containment reforms and shifting market has committed to introducing a harmonised HTA dynamics are further constraining healthcare review.
In other markets, there has been a trend are highly regulated providers, while difficult economic conditions towards rigorous and consistent application of by governments, burden patients who have out-of-pocket expenses pricing regulations, including reference pricing insurers and other relating to their medicines.
companies are now expending significant private payers resources to demonstrate the economic as well There is also pressure on pricing in the US.
For through various asthe therapeutic value of theirmedicines.
example, federal and state policymakers are considering legislative and regulatory efforts to controls on pricing The need and desire for payers to manage drug lower drug prices and to implement transparency and reimbursement.
expenditure has been heightened by the shift over measures.
While legislative efforts to repeal and the last decade from a primary care to a specialty replace the Affordable Care Act ACA have not been care focus.
Specialty drugs are used for the successful, the current administration and members treatment of complex, chronic or rare conditions of Congress remain focused on healthcare policy such as cancers, and pricing for these products priorities, including efforts to increase competition reflects the higher value they bring to patients and generic drug use in government programmes, andpayers, as well as the smaller patient numbers which could create downward pressure on pricing.
as aresult of targeted treatment options.
The healthcare industry may also be used as a means to offset government spending.
US federal agencies continue to propose and implement policies Link to strategy and programmes with the goal of reducing costs, Return to Growth increasing transparency, transforming the delivery system, and improving quality andpatient F or more information, see Riskfrompage 220. outcomes.
Loss of exclusivity and genericisation Patent protection for pharmaceutical products is Biologics typically retain exclusivity for longer finite and, after protection expires, payers, than traditional small molecule pharmaceuticals, 84.8% physicians and patients gain greater access to with less generic competition.
With limited For prescriptions dispensed generic alternatives both substitutable and experience to date, the substitution of biosimilars intheUS in 2018, generics analogue in many important drug classes.
These for the original branded product has not followed constituted 84.8% of the market generic alternatives are primarily lower priced the same pattern as generic substitution in small by volume 2017: 84.9%.
because generic manufacturers are largely molecule products and, as a result, erosion of the spared the costs of R&D and market development.
original biologics branded market share has not As a result, demand for generics is high.
This is due to biologics complex prescriptions dispensed in the US in 2018, manufacturing processes and the inherent generics constituted 84.8% of the market by difficulties in producing a biosimilar, which could volume 2017:84.9%.
However, with regulatory authorities in Europe and the US Generic competition can also result from patent continuing to implement abbreviated approval disputes or challenges before patent expiry.
pathways for biosimilar versions, innovative Increasingly, generics companies are launching biologics are likely to face increased competition.
products at risk, for example, before resolution of Like biologics, some small molecule pharmaceutical the relevant patent litigation.
This trend, which is products are in complex formulations and or require likely to continue, creates significant market technically challenging manufacturing and thus presence for the generic version while the litigation may not follow the pattern of generic market erosion remains unresolved.
Given the unpredictable seen with traditional, tableted pharmaceuticals.
For nature of patent litigation, some companies have those products, the introduction of generic alternatives settled such challenges on terms acceptable to the both substitutable and analogue can be slower.
While Link to strategy competition authorities generally accept such Return to Growth agreements as a legitimate way to settle these disputes, they have questioned some settlements F or more information, see Intellectual Propertyfrompage 35. as being anti-competitive.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Marketplace 1 15 5 Marketplace continued Pharmaceutical sector opportunities and challenges continued Trust The pharmaceutical industry continues to To address these challenges, companies are The pharmaceutical facechallenges in building and maintaining seeking to: industry continues itsreputation and the trust of its stakeholders.
to face challenges Thisreflects past sales and marketing practices, embed a culture of ethics and integrity pricing practices by some, as well as legal adopt higher governance standards in building and disputesbetween pharmaceutical companies promote sustainability programmes, maintaining its andgovernment and regulatory authorities.
particularlyfocused on access to healthcare improve relationships with employees, reputation and Companies, including those in the pharmaceutical shareholders and other stakeholders.
the trust of its industry, have been investigated by the China stakeholders.
Public Security Bureau following allegations of Companies are also adopting more patient-centric bribery, and criminal and financial penalties have approaches that go beyond the pill to encompass been imposed.
In the US, investigations by the all aspects of disease management prevention, USDepartment of Justice DOJ and Securities screening, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation.
andExchange Commission SEC under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act continue, as More generally, to be trusted by stakeholders, doinvestigations by the UK Serious Fraud companies need to operate in a way that meets Officeunder the UK Bribery Act.
Link to strategy Be a Great Place to Work F or more information, see Ethics and transparency from page 43.
Reshaping of the sector Our competitors include large, research-based The speed of technological change may also Existing and new pharmaceutical companies like AstraZeneca that transform current business models.
Existing entrants to the sector discover, develop and sell innovative, patentandnew entrants to the sector, for example from are focusing on patient protected prescription medicines and vaccines, the technology sector, are focusing on patient smaller biotechnology and vaccine businesses, and outcomes rather than just products and services, outcomes rather than companies that produce generic medicines.
The prediction and prevention rather than just just products and pharmaceutical market is highly competitive.
This may also example, the global respiratory market is likely to see entailnewways of competing.
services, prediction changes with new branded or generic products with and prevention rather new combinations and devices.
In immuno-oncology, The sustainability and growth of a more patientthan just diagnosis the large number of clinical trials being carried out centric pharmaceutical industry is predicated on highlight the competitive nature of this area.
organisations being able to take full advantage of and treatment.
these breakthroughs in digital and other While our peers face similar challenges and technologies.
opportunities, they approach them in different ways.
Some companies have pursued a strategy focused on branded prescription pharmaceuticals.
Others have diversified by acquiring or building branded generics businesses or consumer portfolios, or have looked to geographic expansion, especially in Emerging Markets.
Companies are also focused on improving R&D productivity Link to strategy andoperational efficiency.
Across the industry, Global, science-led consolidation, business development deals pharmaceutical company including licensing and collaborations and competition for business development F or more information, see Risk from page 220. opportunities have continued.
16 16 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report One of the approaches we are adopting to payment for our medicines 75% is the implementation of Innovative of oncology medicines Value Strategies, which link payment are expected to have for a medicine to its effectiveness and multiple indications the outcomes it achieves for patients, by 2020 payers and society.
For example, inthe US we have entered into 37agreements that span across eachofour main therapy areas.
50% Scientific advances have led to a this is a 50% newera of medicines that have the increasevs 2014 potential to be used across different disease areas and patient populations.
Value delivered by a medicine may differ across different indications andmay not align to a single price.
Additive pricing of combinations mayalso present an access challengefor health systems.
As part of our Innovative Value Strategies, we are working with payers and healthcare systems to introduce indication-based pricing IBP which aligns payment to value at the indication level.
This development is part of our commitment to working with all stakeholders to improve patient health and adding value to thehealth system through innovative personalised medicines that are bothaccessible and affordable.
IBP requires three elements: a system of value assessment at the individual indication level: appropriate evidence that allows usage per indication to be linked to payment: and an ability to implement confidential commercial agreements that recognise the different value of individual indications.
A number of countries have already implemented various IBPapproaches, including the US, Australia, Italy and Switzerland.
deliver value to patients, Science payers and society can For more information on the principles onwhich we base the price of our medicines, see page 30.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Marketplace 17
