Therapy Area Review Oncology Our ambition is to push the boundaries of science to change the practice of medicine, transform the lives of patients living with cancer, and ultimately eliminate cancer as a cause of death.
To do this, we focus on R&D and on our commercial capabilities to deliver a new generation of medicines that have the potential to redefine the treatment of cancer.
Unmet medical need and world market Cancer is the second leading cause of death globally.
Lung cancer has the highest Estimated annual cancer cases m cancer mortality rate, responsible 2040 29.5 for the deaths of 1.7 million 2030 22 people worldwide in 2018, 2018 18 followed by colorectal, stomach, liver and breast cancer.
Breast cancer is among the 1.7m most common types of cancer, Lung cancer was responsible affecting 4.6 million people forthe deaths of 1.7 million worldwide.
cancers include prostate and ovarian cancer.
70% Approximately 70% of the worlds cancer deaths occur in lowandmiddle-income countries.
Therapy area world market MAT Q3 18 $106.6bn Annual worldwide market value Chemotherapy $22.5bn Hormonal therapies $12.5bn Monoclonal antibodies mAbs $27.3bn Small molecule targeted agents $30.1bn Immune checkpoint inhibitors $14.2bn Other oncology therapies $0.1bn Part of AstraZenecas Source: IQVIA.
antibody-drug conjugate AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments scientific platform to target within this overall therapy area market.
50 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Product Disease area Revenue Commentary Tagrisso Lung cancer $1,860m, Approved in more than 55 countries, including the US, Japan osimertinib up 95% 93% and EU, for 1st line EGFRm advanced non-small cell lung at CER cancer NSCLC, and more than 80 countries, including the US, Japan, China and the EU, for 2nd line use in patients with EGFRm T790M mutation-positive advanced NSCLC.
Lynparza Ovarian cancer $647m, up 118% Approved in more than 60 countries for advanced ovarian olaparib Breast cancer 116% at CER cancer and approved in the US and Japan for metastatic breast cancer.
Imfinzi Lung cancer $633m, Approved in more than 40 countries, including the US, EU durvalumab Bladder cancer movement n m and Japan, for locally advanced, unresectable, stage 3 NSCLC and in the US, Canada, Brazil, Israel, Australia, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates and India for locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma.
Calquence Mantle cell $62m, Approved in the US, the United Arab Emirates and Brazil for acalabrutinib lymphoma MCL movement n m previously treated MCL.
Lumoxiti Hairy cell Approved in the US for 3rd line relapsed or refractory moxetumomab leukaemia HCL HCL.
In 2018, the commercialisation rights of Lumoxiti were pasudotox-tdfk licensed to Innate Pharma for the US and EU.
Legacy Iressa Lung cancer $518m, down 2% Key marketed products gefitinib 4% at CER and revenues 2018 The continued renewal of our Faslodex Breast cancer $1,028m, up 9% Approved in combination with CDK4 6 inhibitors.
fulvestrant 9% at CER commercial portfolio, the regulatory approvals of new Zoladex Prostate cancer $752m, up 2% indications for several established goserelin Breastcancer 2% at CER acetateimplant brands, and the rapid geographic expansion of our launches drove Arimidex Breast cancer $212m, down 2% anastrozole 3% at CER Oncology performance in 2018.
Casodex Cosudex Prostate cancer $201m, down 7% Oncology revenue bicalutamide 8% at CER $6,028m Others $115m, up 1% down 1% 29% of total at CER 2017: $4,024m Full product information from page 217.
2016: $3,383m Our strategy for Oncology These franchises enable us to best deliver 2.
Focus on early stages of disease and against four strategic priorities we have relapsed or refractory patients: To move In 2018, we divided our Oncology embraced in order to achieve our ambition the current cancer treatment paradigm, we business into five franchises ofeliminating cancer as a cause of death.
recognise we must both identify and treat that reflect both our commercial patients earlier in their disease progression priorities and our key scientific 1.
Focus research on four scientific when there is a possibility of cure, and platforms: Our broad pipeline of nextalsoimprove the treatment of relapsed or platforms: generation medicines is aimed at expanding refractory patients to extend survival and Tagrisso and tumour drivers our treatment options for solid tumours and deliver the most transformative outcomes.
We are exploring Imfinzi and immuno-oncology several monotherapy and combination 3.
Lead precision medicine in the most approaches across four scientific platforms: prevalent and deadly tumour types: On Lynparza and DNA damage ourpath to eliminating cancer as a cause response DDR Tumour drivers and resistance: ofdeath, we have set ourselves the goal of Calquence and haematology Developing therapies that target specific improving five-year survival in tumour types Mature portfolio molecular mutations to attack cancer cells.
where mortality remains high, such as ovarian Immuno-oncology: Using the bodys and NSCLC.
Wealso continue to concentrate immune system to help fight cancer.
on biomarker-driven indications where the DNA damage response: Targeting the benefits to patient populations are tangible DNA repair process to block tumour and significant.
Leverage our global footprint: To deliver antibodies with cancer-killing agents these treatment-changing solutions to as many forspecific tumour targeting.
patients in need as possible, we are building capacity across all geographies.
In addition, through our Oncology Business Unit we are increasing focus and improving response timein key markets such as the US, UK, Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Japan and China.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 51 Therapy Area Review Oncology continued 2018 pipeline highlights ourcontinuing investment in oncology as one Results from the Phase III MYSTIC of our key growth drivers.
Highlights include: andEAGLE trials exploring Imfinzi as Our robust pipeline includes 83 monotherapy or in combination with projects in various stages of clinical Important new data from the pivotal Phase tremelimumab respectively in 1st line development, from recently approved III PACIFIC trials in NSCLC, demonstrating setting of metastatic NSCLC and in products to earlier-stage molecules astatistically significant benefit in overall recurrent or metastatic head and neck survival with Imfinzi.
Results from the Phase III SOLO-1 trial, Full details are given in the Development Pipeline from investigating Lynparza in 1st line In 2018, we presented new clinical data at page212 and highlights from theprogress our Oncology maintenance therapy for advanced major medical congresses and secured pipeline made in 2018 against our KPIs are shown below.
multiple regulatory milestones, reflecting Life-cycle phases R&D Product Cancer type New molecular entity NME Phase II AZD2811 Solid tumours starts progressions Imfinzi Lynparza Bladder cancer BAYOU Over 20 clinical trials in Phase II explore Imfinzi monalizumab Solid tumours combination and monotherapy approaches Oleclumab Imfinzi Solid tumours fortumours where high unmet medical need persists, like head and neck, gastric, breast, lungand ovarian cancers.
Product Cancer type N ME and major life-cycle management Imfinzi CTx Muscle invasive bladder cancer NIAGARA LCM positive Phase III investment Imfinzi CTx Neoadjuvant NSCLC AEGEAN decisions Imfinzi TACE Locoregional hepatocellular carcinoma HCC concurrent EMERALD-1 Life-cycle management is critical to realising Imfinzi tremelimumab 1st line limited disease small cell lung cancer SCLC ADRIATIC the full potential of our medicines and Imfinzi tremelimumab CTx 1st line urothelial cancer NILE establishing sustainable franchises.
In 2018, Lynparza abiraterone All-comers 1st line metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer PROpel we started 10 new Phase III trials bringing the Tagrisso EGFRm leptomeningeal cancer BLOSSOM total number of ongoing Phase III trials to 29.
Plus eight projects where investment decisions have been made but clinical trials have yet to start.
N ME and major LCM regional Product Cancer type Region Imfinzi Stage 3 NSCLC PACIFIC China submissions Lumoxiti 3rd line HCL PLAIT US In 2018, positive pivotal trial data from our Lynparza 1st line ovarian cancer SOLO-1 US, EU, China, Japan oncology pipeline fuelled regulatory Lynparza gBRCA metastatic breast cancer OlympiAD EU submissions.
We received three Orphan Tagrisso 1st line NSCLC FLAURA China Drugdesignations for Lynparza in pancreatic cancer POLO in the US and selumetinib in neurofibromatosis type 1 SPRINT in the US and EU, and benefited from three Priority Reviews.
Life-cycle phases approvals Product Cancer type Region NME and major LCM regional Imfinzi Unresectable stage 3 NSCLC PACIFIC US, Japan, EU approvals Lumoxiti 3rd line HCL US In the US, EU, Japan and China, we secured Lynparza 1st line ovarian cancer SOLO-1 US 13 new regional approvals in 2018, underlining Lynparza 2nd line ovarian cancer SOLO-2 Japan, EU, China our commitment to providing patients with Lynparza gBRCA metastatic breast cancer OlympiAD US, Japan access to life-changing medicines globally.
Tagrisso 1st line NSCLC FLAURA US, EU, Japan Discontinued projects Product Cancer type Reason Calquence vistusertib BTK mTor haematalogical tumours Safety efficacy Imfinzi tremelimumab PD-L1 CTLA-4 3rd line NSCLC ARCTIC Safety efficacy Imfinzi tremelimumab 2nd line HNSCC EAGLE Safety efficacy Imfinzi tremelimumab 1st line NSCLC MYSTIC Safety efficacy Imfinzi or Imfinzi tremelimumab or danvatirsen Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma DLBCL Safety efficacy Imfinzi MEDI0562 Solid tumours Safety efficacy Imfinzi MEDI9197 Solid tumours Safety efficacy MEDI-565 CEA BITE GI tumours Safety efficacy MEDI0562 Solid tumours Safety efficacy MEDI1873 Solid tumours Strategic MEDI4276 HER2 solid tumours Safety efficacy MEDI9197 Solid tumours Safety efficacy Selumetinib Differentiated thyroid cancer ASTRA Safety efficacy Tremelimumab MEDI0562 Solid tumours Safety efficacy F or more information on the life-cycle of a medicine, see page 9.
Vistusertib mTOR stage 1 2 solid tumours Safety efficacy 52 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report ccan an S Sc cie ien nc ce e improve patient outcomes in lung cancer Twenty percent of all cancer deaths NSCLC and ourbroad IO pipeline are caused by lung cancer, the to expand research into earlier stages biggest cancer killer worldwide.
of the disease, and to emerging For too long our ability toimprove patient populations.
patient outcomes has been hindered both by our limited understanding In 2018, this approach proved to be of the disease, and by an absence of successful, delivering clinical treatments that could fundamentally evidence that could significantly shiftthe statusquo.
impact the treatment of NSCLC.
With the PACIFIC study, Imfinzi became However, in recent years, significant thefirst IO therapy to demonstrate scientific advances in targeted abenefit in stage 3 NSCLC where treatments and in immuno-oncology there is curative possibility.
In IO have led to new treatment addition, further data from the options.
While the market has FLAURA study not only reaffirmed focused on leveraging these Tagrissos place in 1st line, but they advances toimprove outcomes also provided new insights into for late-stage patients, we have optimising treatment for metastatic leveraged our heritage in EGFRm EGFRm NSCLC, where five-year non-small cell lung cancer survival rates remain at lessthan 15%.
2018 review strategy in action In 2018, Tagrisso was approved for 1st line Tagrisso following chemoradiation in patients Oncology is one of our main therapy areas EGFRm advanced NSCLC, based on the with stage 3 unresectable EGFRm NSCLC.
and has a major role to play in our Return to positive results from the Phase III FLAURA trial.
Our next generation of TDR projects Growth, with an aim of launching six new The approval was granted in the US in April, continued to progress in 2018: oncology medicines between 2014 and 2020. inthe EU in June and in Japan in August.
Savolitinib, a selective inhibitor of In 2015 and 2016, we continued to build By December 2018, it was approved in c-METreceptor tyrosine kinase, is being ouroncology business by investing in a more than 55 countries for 1st line EGFRm investigated in partnership with Chi-Med in robustclinical development programme advanced NSCLC, and in more than combination with Tagrisso in EGFR mutated andby making strategic partnerships and 80 countries for 2nd line use in patients lung cancers which also have amplification acquisitions, such as acquiring a majority with EGFRm T790M mutation-positive of MET, a common resistance mechanism equity stake in Acerta Pharma to establish advanced NSCLC.
in patients progressing on Tagrisso.
It is ourfootprint in haematology.
also being explored as monotherapy in In October 2018, new data from the FLAURA NSCLC patients with MET Exon 14 skipping In 2017, we created the Oncology Business Phase III trial presented at the European mutations, and in combination with Imfinzi Unit OBU focused on eight key markets, Society for Medical Oncology ESMO 2018 in renal cancer.
withthe aim of accelerating the uptake of our Congress provided insights on the resistance Selumetinib, an MEK inhibitor, part of the new medicines through strategic focus, quick mechanisms observed after treatment with portfolio agreement with MSD, continued decision making, and adequate investments.
1stline Tagrisso in patients with previously to be investigated in the SPRINT trial for untreated EGFRm NSCLC who experienced neurofibromatosis type 1.
Selumetinib was In 2018, based on the commercial uptake of disease progression during the trial period.
granted Orphan Drug designation in the our new medicines, and the maturity of their Asexpected, there was no evidence of the US and Europe for this potential indication late-stage clinical programmes, we organised acquired EGFR T790M mutation and the in 2018.
Promising early combination the OBU into five franchises: Tagrisso, Imfinzi, mostfrequently experienced resistance dataof novel ERK inhibitor AZD0364 and Lynparza, Calquence and our mature portfolio.
mechanisms MET mesenchymal epithelial selumetinib in KRAS-mutated tumours was transition factor amplification and C797X presented at the American Association for Tagrisso and tumour drivers and mutations were confirmed.
Cancer Research annual meeting in April resistancemechanisms 2018.
However, in the second quarter of Tagrisso is our best-in-class, highly-selective, Based on these findings, we announced 2018, after the ASTRA trial failed to meet irreversible inhibitor of the activating sensitising theinitiation of ORCHARD, an open-label, itsprimary endpoint, further Phase III EGFR mutation EGFRm and the resistance multi-centre, multi-drug Phase II platform trial development of selumetinib in thyroid mutation T790M.
in patients with advanced NSCLC who have cancer was discontinued.
experienced disease progression following Capivasertib AZD5363 had promising 1stline therapy with Tagrisso.
Phase II data presented at the American Our tumour drivers and resistance TDR mechanisms Society of Clinical Oncology ASCO platform explores the inhibition of genetic disease drivers During 2018, we also confirmed our conference in June 2018 showing an OS as a clinically validated approach to shrink tumours and commitment to tackling earlier stages of improvement in combination with paclitaxel improve progression-free survival PFS and overall survival EGFRm NSCLC with the ADAURA and LAURA in patients with 1st line metastatic triple OS.
Tumours, however, eventually develop resistance to these therapies.
Our programmes seek to develop therapies clinical trials.
ADAURA will assess the efficacy negative breast cancer.
Capivasertib is also that target resistance mechanisms and the mutations that and safety of Tagrisso in EGFRm stage Ib-3A in Phase II trials in ER breast cancer in cause cancer cells to proliferate.
NSCLC, following complete tumour resection combination with Faslodex and in prostate with or without adjuvant chemotherapy, and cancer in combination with enzalutamide.
LAURA will assess the efficacy and safety of AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 53 Therapy Area Review Oncology continued Other agents in early development include: of Imfinzi as consolidation therapy in patients MEDI9447: In June 2018, data from the AZD9496 and AZD9833, selective oestrogen with locally-advanced, unresectable NSCLC.
Phase I study of oleclumab MEDI9447, receptor degraders SERD in Phase I targeting ecto-5-nucleotidase CD73, development for the treatment of oestrogen Late-stage NSCLC incombination with Imfinzi in advanced receptor positive ER breast cancer: In April 2018, we announced the results of pancreatic cancer and colorectal cancer AZD5153, a bromodomain 4 inhibitor in Phase I thePhase III ARCTIC trial exploring Imfinzi waspresented at the ASCO annual meeting.
for solid tumours: and AZD8186, an inhibitor of and tremelimumab in monotherapy or in AZD9150: In October 2018, data from the PI3 kinase and in Phase II for solid tumours.
combination in 3rd line locally-advanced SCORES Phase II study in patients with ormetastatic NSCLC.
The data, presented 2nd line HNSCC showed encouraging Imfinzi and immuno-oncology on22October at the ESMO 2018 Congress, tumour response rate for the combination Imfinzi, a human mAb that binds to PD-L1 and demonstrated that Imfinzi monotherapy of danvatirsen AZD9150, STAT3 antisense blocks the interaction of PD-L1 with PD-1 and provided a clinically meaningful reduction of oligonucleotide with Imfinzi, including CD80, is the cornerstone of our extensive IO the risk of death compared to chemotherapy biopsy data showing modulation of programme.
In 2018, it received approval for in patients with PD-L1 high positive tumours thetumour microenvironment.
locally-advanced, unresectable, stage 3 and that the combination did not significantly Monalizumab: In October 2018, we NSCLC in more than 40 countries, including improve PFS or OS compared to announced a new agreement with Innate the US, EU and Japan.
It also secured chemotherapy in patients with PD-L1 Pharma in which we will exercise our existing approval for locally-advanced or metastatic low negative tumours.
option to obtain full oncology rights to urothelial carcinoma bladder cancer in monalizumab, a first-in-class humanised Canada, Brazil, Israel, Hong Kong, Australia, In November 2018, the final analysis of the anti-NKG2A antibody which has the United Arab Emirates and India.
MYSTIC trial showed that for patients with demonstrated positive Phase II results stage 4 metastatic NSCLC, whose tumours inhead and neck cancer and presents express PD-L1 on 25% or more of their cancer opportunities in colorectal cancer and Immuno-oncology IO is a promising therapeutic approach cells, Imfinzi monotherapy and the combination haematological malignancies as well.
The that harnesses the patients own immune system to help of Imfinzi plus tremelimumab did not meet the agreement also provided us with access to fight cancer.
We aim to become scientific leaders in IO by primary endpoints of improving OS compared Innate Pharmas anti-CD39 mAb, IPH5201, identifying novel approaches that enhance the immune to the current standard of care SoC plus four additional IO molecules, increasing systems ability to fight cancer, both with IO medicines on their own, and in conjunction with other medicines.
The results presented at the the breadth and depth of our IOportfolio.
December ESMO-IO Congress showed that AZD4635, an Adenosine 2A receptor Imfinzi monotherapy demonstrated meaningful A2AR inhibitor is being explored as In 2018, our comprehensive IO clinical clinical activity in patients whose tumours monotherapy and in combination with programme continued to provide insights express PD-L1 on 25% or more of their cancer Imfinzi in solid tumours in Phase II trials.
onthe clinical potential of Imfinzi in a variety cells, but this result did not meet statistical Inaddition, combination trials of AZD4635 ofdifferent clinical settings, both as a significance.
The data support further analysis with oleclumab anti-CD73 Ab, and with monotherapy as well as in combination in exploratory subgroups, including blood oleclumab and Imfinzi are ongoing with withchemotherapy and tremelimumab.
tumour mutational burden bTMB analyses.
thegoal of testing increased adenosine axisblockade, a key immunosuppressive Early-stage NSCLC We also continued our efforts to explore ways mechanism.
In May 2018, we announced positive topline to improve outcomes for patients who have MEDI0680, an anti-programmed cell death OS results for the Phase III PACIFIC trial of relapsed or are diagnosed with metastatic protein 1 PD1 mAb that blocks interactions Imfinzi in patients with unresectable stage disease.
In this setting, Imfinzi is being with PD1 and its ligands, is being 3NSCLC.
Data that show Imfinzi reduced investigated as a monotherapy and in investigated in combination with Imfinzi therisk of death by nearly one third were combination with tremelimumab and or inaPhase II study to treat solid tumours.
subsequently presented on 25 October chemotherapy in the PEARL, NEPTUNE MEDI0457, a DNA vaccine against human during the Presidential Symposium of the andPOSEIDON trials.
papilloma virus HPV 16 18 is being International Association for the Study of investigated in combination with Imfinzi Lung Cancer 19th World Conference on Lung Beyond NSCLC inaPhase II study in patients with Cancer.
With the PACIFIC trial results, we are In December 2018, the final data from the HPV-associated head and neck tumours.
the first company to demonstrate the benefits EAGLE study showed Imfinzi monotherapy Potential new products in Phase I include of treating NSCLC patients with an immunoand the combination of Imfinzi plus MEDI5752, a novel bispecific antibody therapy where curative intent is the treatment tremelimumab did not meet the primary designed to target dual checkpoints on goal, ie before the disease has spread to endpoints of improving OS compared to immune cells, and MEDI5083 targeting multiple organs.
SoCchemotherapy in patients with recurrent CD40receptor.
These agents are in Phase I or metastatic HNSCC who experienced development for a range of solid tumours and Lung cancer is a key area of focus for our disease progression following platinum-based have the potential for combination with other IOportfolio and in 2018 we announced our chemotherapy.
We continue to explore the molecules in the portfolio, including Imfinzi.
commitment to investigate the full potential of potential of Imfinzi and tremelimumab in Imfinzi in early-stage NSCLC with the Phase HNSCC in the ongoing KESTREL trial, in Lynparza and DNA damage response III ADJUVANT BR.
31, PACIFIC-2 and patients with 1st line recurrent or metastatic Lynparza is our best-in-class oral poly ADP PACIFIC-5 trials: disease, with data expected in the first half ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor, the of2019.
Our extensive IO programme also flagship of our DDR programme.
ADJUVANT will explore the benefits of includes ongoing Phase III trials in small cell treatment with Imfinzi following complete lung cancer SCLC withCASPIAN, in bladder tumour resection.
cancer POTOMAC, NIAGARA, DANUBE, NILE Our DNA damage response DDR platform exploits mechanisms that selectively damage tumour cell DNA to PACIFIC-2 will assess efficacy and safety and in hepatocellular carcinoma HIMALAYA.
shrink tumours and improve Progression Free Survival ofImfinzi given concurrently with platinumPFS and Overall Survival OS.
Our market-leading based chemotherapy radiation in stage 3 In addition to these major clinical trials, our programmes focus on multiple ways to identify and exploit NSCLC patients.
IOpipeline, one of the largest in the industry, vulnerabilities to kill the tumour cells, while minimising toxicity to the patient.
PACIFIC-5 will assess the efficacy and safety continued to progress: 54 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report insubjects with metastatic castration-resistant Lumoxiti is a first-in-class anti-CD22 In 2018, Lynparza became the first and only prostate cancer, we started the Phase III recombinant immunotoxin and the first new PARP inhibitor approved beyond ovarian PROpel trial that will assess the combination of treatment option for hairy cell leukaemia HCL cancer for the treatment of germline BRCALynparza with abiraterone in 1st line metastatic in over 20 years.
It was approved in the US for mutated gBRCAm HER2- metastatic breast castration-resistant prostate cancer.
the treatment of adult patients with relapsed cancer in the US and Japan.
The US approval or refractory HCL who have received at least in January 2018 and the Japan approval in In addition, from our extensive DDR portfolio, two prior systemic therapies, including July 2018 were based on the Phase III five other products continued to advance treatment with a purine nucleoside analogue.
OlympiAD trial which demonstrated the through early development.
These include: benefits of Lynparza over chemotherapy for In October 2018, we announced we will license patients with gBRCAm HER2- metastatic AZD1775, a Wee1 inhibitor in Phase II the US commercial rights of Lumoxiti to Innate breast cancer.
development for ovarian and other solid Pharma.
Innate Pharma, with our support, tumours in combination with Lynparza, willcontinue EU development and 2018 has been a significant year for Lynparza incombination with chemotherapy, and commercialisation, pending regulatory as it fully benefited from the global strategic asmonotherapy.
Innate Pharma will oncology collaboration with MSD to coAZD6738, an Ataxia Telangiectasia and recognise revenues and co-commercialise develop and co-commercialise the product, Rad3 related ATR serine threonine protein Lumoxiti with us in the US and will take full both as a monotherapy and in combination kinase inhibitor in Phase II development responsibility by mid-2020.
In addition, as part with other medicines, for multiple cancer incombination with Lynparza for triple of the Innate Pharma agreement, we acquired types.
In addition, new market entries, the negative breast cancer, gastric cancer monalizumab, a first-in-class, humanised tablet formulation now approved in all major andother solid tumours.
It is also being anti-NKG2A antibody with a novel mode of regions and new indications in advanced investigated in combination with Calquence action that is being investigated in several breast cancer and for a broad label in in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, and in haematological malignancies and solid tumours.
platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer combination with radiation therapy and regardless of BRCA status also expanded chemotherapy, as well as a monotherapy.
In 2018, we also continued to advance our themedicines availability to new patients.
AZD2811 an Aurora Kinase inhibitor haematology early-phase clinical programme, ByDecember 2018, Lynparza had been indevelopment for Phase II in SCLC with AZD5991, an MCL1 inhibitor, and approved in more than 60 countries.
AZD4753, a CDK9 inhibitor, both being AZD0156 and AZD1390, ATM investigated as part of our cell death In October 2018, the SOLO-1 Phase III trial inhibitorsinPhase I for solid tumours.
programme, and ADCs, MEDI7247 data demonstrated the significant benefit andMEDI2228.
ofextending PFS much earlier in the patient Calquence and haematology journey, bringing the goal of long-term Calquence is our irreversible oral Brutons Mature portfolio remission and cure in ovarian cancer even tyrosine kinase BTK inhibitor.
In 2018, our established oncology brands closer.
The results of SOLO-1, presented Faslodex, Zoladex and Iressa delivered aspart of the Presidential Symposium at good sales.
theESMO 2018 Congress, and published The use of antibody-drug conjugates ADC is a clinically simultaneously in the New England Journal validated, highly potent approach that selectively targets Faslodex continued to benefit from several ofMedicine, showed that 60% of women with cancer cells by combining innovative antibody engineering 2017 1st line label extensions, based on the newly diagnosed advanced BRCA-mutated capabilities with cytotoxic drug molecules, to attack and kill the tumour while minimising toxicity to the patient.
Phase III FALCON trial, for the treatment of ovarian cancer treated with Lynparza for post-menopausal women with oestrogen 1st line maintenance therapy remained receptor positive, locally-advanced or progression-free at three years compared to In 2018, Calquence experienced encouraging metastatic breast cancer, not previously 26.9% with placebo following platinum-based early uptake in the US market following an treated with endocrine therapy.
At 41 months of follow-up, the October 2017 approval for the treatment of the body of evidence supporting the use of median PFS was not reached in the Lynparza adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma MCL Faslodex as a backbone therapy for use in arm, while it had been reached at 13.8 months who have received at least one prior therapy.
combination in the treatment of advanced within the placebo arm.
In December 2018, breast cancer continued to grow.
All major just a few weeks after the filing submission in In December 2018, at the American Society of CDK4 6 inhibitors, a new class of medicine the US, the FDA approved Lynparza for 1st Hematology congress, we presented the forER HER2- breast cancer, now include line maintenance therapy in patients with two-year follow-up results of the ACE-LY-004 use with Faslodex in their labels.
Phase II trial showing sustained benefits for patients treated with Calquence in relapsed or Zoladex returned to value growth in 2018 Our combination approach of Lynparza refractory MCL.
In addition, the updated results following a six-year period of slowly declining withother small molecules and biologics has of the Phase I II ACE-CL-001 trial, assessing the sales across Europe and Japan.
The growth significantly expanded in 2018.
Cediranib, our long-term safety and efficacy of Calquence in was based on increased access to medical orally administered multi-vascular endothelial acohort of previously untreated patients with castration and ovarian suppression, as well growth factor receptor VEGFR inhibitor, is chronic lymphocytic leukaemia CLL, showed asearlier detection and diagnosis in prostate currently being tested in combination with high response rates and demonstrated an and breast cancers, predominantly in China Lynparza in the Phase IIb CONCERTO trial acceptable safety profile.
The median time on and the Emerging Markets.
inpatients with platinum-resistant recurrent study was 33 months, with 91% of patients ovarian cancer.
Results are expected late in remaining on treatment with Calquence at Iressa sales declined slightly following 2019.
The DUO programme of Lynparza with thetime of analysis.
genericentries in select markets and the Imfinzi has been extended to new potential initialuptake ofTagrisso in 1st line EGFRm indications bladder cancer, NSCLC, ovarian In September 2018, Lumoxiti became the first advanced NSCLC.
Building on the PROfound Phase III medicine from our ADC scientific platform to trial that explores the efficacy and safety of get approved, and our fifth new oncology Lynparza versus enzalutamide or abiraterone medicine since 2014.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 55 Therapy Area Review continued Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism Cardiovascular, renal and metabolic CVRM diseases combined are killing more than 20 million people each year.
Yet, in many cases, each condition is managed in isolation.
As science uncovers commonalities between these diseases and their associated complications, we aim to transform how CVRM diseases are understood and treated.
Unmet medical need and world market 20m Number of deaths from CVRM diseases worldwide every year.
93% Proportion of people with type-2 diabetes that have at least one other CV, renal or metabolic condition.
Therapy area world market MAT Q3 18 $183.8bn Annual worldwide market value High blood pressure $33.3bn Abnormal levels of blood cholesterol $17.7bn Diabetes $82.5bn Thrombosis $7.7bn CKD $6.5bn CKD associated anaemia $2.0bn Hyperkalaemia $0.3bn Other CV $38.8bn Source: IQVIA.
AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments Nucleotide therapies within this overall therapy area market.
CVRM total sales excludes partial double counting of hyperkalaemia and CKD associated anaemia market sales, which results from definitions overlapping with CKD and other CV.
56 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Product Disease area Revenue Commentary Brilinta Brilique Acute coronary $1,321m, up 22% Approved in more than 100 countries for ACS and more ticagrelor syndromes ACS and 21% at CER than 60 countries for high-risk patients with history high-risk patients with ofheart attack: included in major guidelines.
Brilinta history of myocardial delivered consistent quarter-over-quarter growth infarction MI in2018in all regions.
Farxiga Type-2 diabetes $1,391m, up 30% Approved in more than 90 countries to improve Forxiga 30% at CER glycaemic control in adult patients with type-2 diabetes: dapagliflozin included in major guidelines.
It had a solid performance in 2018, driven by strong volume growth in a highly competitive market.
Onglyza Type-2 diabetes $543m, down 11% Approved in more than 85 countries for the treatment saxagliptin 11% at CER ofadults with type-2 diabetes: included in guidelines.
Onglyza maintained a strong performance in 2018 in Emerging Markets, driven by China, while facing USprice pressure.
Bydureon Type-2 diabetes $584m, up 2% Approved in more than 70 countries to improve exenatide XR 1% at CER glycaemic control in adults with type-2 diabetes: injectable included in major guidelines.
In 2018, Bydureon suspension continued launch progress with BCise in a highly dynamic GLP-1 class.
Byetta Type-2 diabetes $126m, down 28% exenatide 28% at CER injection Key marketed products and revenues 2018 Symlin Diabetes $34m, down 29% pramlintide 29% at CER CVRM supported AstraZenecas acetate Return to Growth by achieving Legacy blockbuster status for two of its Crestor Dyslipidaemia $1,433m, down Financial impact following the 2017 expiries in the US, main innovative medicines, rosuvastatin Hyper- 39% 40% at CER EU and Japan receded in second half of 2018. calcium cholesterolaemia Farxiga and Brilinta.
The extension of the global CVRM Product Sales were licence agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the modification of the royalty structure became effective $6,710million for 2018, down 1January 2014.
Seloken Hypertension $712m, up 2% Divested rights in Europe to Recordati in May 2017.
Toprol-XL Heart failure 4% at CER Divested US rights to Aralez effective 4 October 2016. metoprolol Angina succinate CVRM revenue Atacand Hypertension $260m, down 13% Divested rights to Cheplapharm in 28 European markets Atacand HCT Heart failure 12% at CER in July 2018.
Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Atacand Plus Industries Ltd. $6,710m candesartan 32% of total cilexitil 2017: $7,266m Others $306m, down 11% 2016: $8,116m 12% at CER Our strategy for CVRM We have a three-pronged science-driven treat their diseases.
We want to promote strategy to address this extended CVRM risk: interdisciplinary collaboration among CV, CVRM diseases often coexist and renal and diabetes specialists and primary many patients have symptoms or 1.
Today, we are delivering life-changing care physicians in order to change clinical underlying pathologies associated results in the discrete core cardiovascular CV practice and provide complete care for CVRM with more than one CVRM disease areas and their complications, with patients.
Our approach is exemplified by: medicines already being used or in late-stage disease.
We are therefore focusing development: 1.
Partnerships: We are actively seeking our efforts on the commonalities Metabolic disease: Farxiga, Bydureon, broader and stronger collaborations with between these diseases and their Onglyza, Qtern respected academic institutions, research underlying mechanisms to better Heart failure: Farxiga organisations, patient advocacy groups Renal: Lokelma, roxadustat, Farxiga and healthcare companies.
understand how our portfolio Atherosclerosis: Brilinta, Epanova, might be used to address multiple Crestor.
Research: By taking risks, we can study risk factors or co-morbidities, and compounds and treatments across diseases whether combinations of 2.
For the future, we are investing in science to and combinations.
We are seeking not only to demonstrate CV and mortality benefits by understand the development and implications medicines might offer unique slowing the underlying progression of of each condition, but the interactions between patient benefits.
CV-related disease and protecting the organs two or more conditions, and how deterioration of the CV system.
in one could adversely affect the others.
Ultimately, we are looking to do more than 3.
Real-world settings: Using data from slow CV-related disease.
We want to modify, real-world studies, we are better able to or even halt, the natural course of the disease evaluate the connections between CVRM itself and regenerate organs.
conditions and follow-up on patient outcome measures.
For example, recent research Our new approach to care collected multi-national real-world evidence Our aim is to improve care for CVRM patients RWE from more than 300,000 patients by adopting a holistic approach to each across six countries.
patient and finding a seamless way in which to AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 57 Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism continued 2018 pipeline highlights conditions, such as chronic kidney Full details are given in the Development Pipeline from page 212 and highlights from We have 29 potential medicines disease CKD, acute coronary theprogress our CVRM pipeline made in andmedicine combinations in our syndromes ACS, heart failure HF 2018against our KPIs are shown below.
pipeline, including small molecules and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and biologics, to address cardiac NASH as well as in the broader regeneration and individual CVRM disease context.
Life-cycle phases R&D Product Disease N ew molecular entity NME Phase II AZD4831 Heart failure starts progressions AZD8601 CV disease Our pioneering approach to exploring MEDI6012 CV disease CVdisease and heart regeneration saw advances in three Phase II clinical trials.
Product Disease N ME and major life-cycle management Farxiga Forxiga Heart failure DELIVER LCM positive Phase III investment decisions Plus one project where investment decision has been made but clinical trial has yet to start.
We broadened our HF research to include a Phase III trial evaluating the effects of Farxiga on reducing CV death or worsening HF in patients with HF and a preserved ejection fraction HFpEF, alongside functional and systematic studies for patients with both preserved and reduced ejection fraction HFpEF HFrEF.
N ME and major LCM regional Product Disease Region submissions Type-2 diabetes cardiovascular outcomes trial Bydureon EU, US, China CVOT EXSCEL Our metabolism portfolio made significant Type-2 diabetes CVOT regulatory strides, with five regulatory filings Bydureon BCise US DURATION programme harmonisation for our oral medicines and combination Bydureon BCise Type-2 diabetes CVOT EXSCEL US oralmedicines, plus three major market data Farxiga Forxiga Type-1 diabetes DEPICT EU, Japan, US submissions from our injectables medicines.
Farxiga Forxiga combination: saxagliptin Type-2 diabetes EU, US dapagliflozin metformin Qtern Dual add-on type-2 diabetes US Plus two projects where submissions have been made but have yet to be accepted.
Life-cycle phases approvals N ME and major LCM regional Product Disease Region Bydureon Add-on to insulin DURATION 7 US approvals Bydureon CVOT EXSCEL EU We made important progress in advancing Bydureon BCise Type-2 diabetes weekly auto-injector EU new molecules like Lokelma and roxadustat to Lokelma Hyperkalaemia EU, US address unmet needs of renal patients, as well 1 Roxadustat Chronic kidney disease anaemia China as adding clinical evidence on clinically 1 Development and commercialisation collaboration with FibroGen in China.
relevant CV outcomes alongside device enhancements of our established medicine, Bydureon, in the EU.
Discontinued projects Product Disease Reason None F or more information on the life-cycle of a medicine, see page 9.
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science help address the early complications of type-2 diabetes People with type-2 diabetes have a Farxiga has the potential to further two to five times greater risk of heart transform the management of all failure plus an increased risk of a patients with type-2 diabetes.
We heart attack or stroke.
are moving towards doctors being able to choose treatment beyond In November 2018, we announced control of blood-glucose to cardiothe full results from the DECLARErenal protection.
TIMI58SGLT-2 inhibitor cardiovascular outcomes trial CVOT for Farxiga.
Heart failure The trial included more than 17,000 Continues to have a worse survival patients with type-2 diabetes across rate than some cancers following 33 countries, more than four years of diagnosis with a 50% survival rate follow-up and included those with after five years.
multiple CV risk factors and those Is the most common cause of with established CV disease.
This trial hospitalisation in patients older showed that Farxiga significantly than 65. reduced the risk of hospitalisation for Represents a considerable societal heart failure or CV death by 17%.
It also and economic burden: 25% of demonstrated a strong safety profile hospitalised patients are readmitted in a medicine class where some within 30 days and, at six months, 2018 review strategy in action physicians have had concerns.
We have adopted a unique CVRM strategy which includes investing in rigorous clinical programmes evaluating the use of our medicines in large patient populations in both Established and Emerging Markets.
These We presented results of a new analysis of major trial due to read out, studying the trials include ambitious global randomised thePLATO trial at the American College of benefit of Brilinta for the prevention of CV clinical trials RCTs that are as close as Cardiology meeting in March 2018, showing events in patients with type-2 diabetes possible to clinical practice, as well as total mortality was reduced by 51% and CV andcoronary artery disease.
death was reduced by 48%, when patients with ACS were treated with Brilinta within seven We continue to advance our large-scale Randomised clinical trials: More than days prior to having heart bypass surgery, CVoutcomes trial CVOT STRENGTH to 60,000 patients are currently participating compared to patients treated with clopidogrel.
evaluate the safety and efficacy of Epanova in our R&D-led CV trials at more than 6,000 onCV outcomes in combination with statin sites worldwide.
Our focus on diabetes At the European Society of Cardiology ESC therapy for the treatment of patients with research includes almost 50 clinical trials Congress, real-world data further reinforced mixed dyslipidaemia who are at increased worldwide, with an enrolment target of the need to manage persistent ischaemic risk riskof CV disease.
STRENGTH is the largest 56,000 patients.
These RCTs include the in patients, especially those with additional CVOT of any prescription omega-3 and DapaCare Programme, OLYMPUS and risk factors.
PRECLUDE-2, an analysis of data completed enrolment in April 2017, with ROCKIES, and THEMIS.
from the ongoing SWEDEHEART quality approximately 13,000 patients.
Results Real-world evidence data: Our RWE registry involving more than 100,000 patients, areexpected in 2020. studies include CVD-REAL and PRACTICAL, found that the majority of post-myocardial which both set out to deliver innovative infarction MI patients who have at least two We are investigating the role of SGLT-2 datafrom large-scale settings.
CV disease risk factors, showed a marked but inhibition in patients with heart failure as gradual increase in incidence of CV death, MI partof our DapaCare programme overleaf.
The CV risk in patients with type-2 Brilinta is an oral antiplatelet treatment for diabetes in the ATHENA study involving more Crestor is approved in over 115 countries ACS, an umbrella term for sudden chest than 300,000 patients demonstrated that for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and painand other symptoms due to ischaemia diabetic patients who also have coronary  elevated cholesterol.
insufficient blood supply to the heart, and artery disease, or who have experienced a The financial impact following the 2017 patent forthe long-term prevention of CV death, prior heart attack or a stroke, are at greater expiries in the US, EU and Japan receded in heart attack and stroke for patients with risk of future CV death, heart attack and the second half of 2018.
Crestor is now subject ahistory of heart attack.
stroke than patients with just diabetes alone.
to generic competition in a number of markets.
In its ACS indication, Brilinta 90mg is During the year, the first patient was enrolled In July 2018, we announced an agreement approved in more than 100 countries, and is into THALES, a new randomised, placebowith Cheplapharm for the rights in Europe to included in major ACS treatment guidelines controlled Phase III dual antiplatelet therapy Atacand candesartan cilexetil and Atacand globally.
In its indication for the long-term trial in stroke.
This study forms part of Plus fixed-dose combination of candesartan prevention of CV death, heart attack and PARTHENON, our largest ever CV outcomes cilexetil and hydrochlorothiazide.
Atacand is stroke for patients with a history of heart programme involving more than 80,000 a prescription medicine for the treatment of attack, since approval in 2016, Brilinta patients, within which THEMIS is the next heart failure and hypertension.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 59 Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism continued Renal diseases populations that represent todays clinical blood sugar remains uncontrolled with other Our ambition is to revolutionise the treatment of practice in order to help more patients achieve treatments, supported by our Phase III trial, chronic kidney disease CKD.
We are investing treatment goals earlier in their disease.
EXSCEL, the largest and longest CVOT on the in therapies across the continuum of CKD care, GLP-1 class.
Additionally, Bydureon BCise, from disease modification during an earlyOur industry-leading DapaCare clinical trial anew formulation in an easy-to-use, oncestage diagnosis to managing life-threatening programme will enroll nearly 30,000 patients weekly device that does not require titration, complications as patients progress to dialysis in RCTs and mechanistic studies exploring was approved by the EC.
With 3Sbio Inc. and end-stage renal disease.
new ways to extend the therapeutic value of we also gained approval for Bydureon across Farxiga to patients with and without type-2 China, making it the first once-weekly GLP-1 Roxadustat is a first-in-class oral hypoxiadiabetes, many of whom have not seen in a nation with an estimated 114 million inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor treatment advances in decades.
DapaCare patients living with diabetes.
HIF-PHI that could transform the isour answer to the need for comprehensive management of anaemia of CKD for patients research and treatment at a time when there We are also advancing promising both on dialysis and not on dialysis.
We isa fundamental shift in how diabetes, CV investigational agents that bring new arecollaborating in the development and andrenal diseases are managed.
approaches to metabolic diseases and commercialisation of roxadustat in the US, theircomplications.
In June, the first clinical China and other markets not covered by an In addition to our leading CVOT, DECLARE results from a Phase IIa study conducted on agreement between FibroGen and Astellas.
In see case study on page 59, and our RWE MEDI0382, our oxyntomodulin-like peptide December 2018, we announced with FibroGen study, CVD-REAL, we have invested in two molecule being studied for patients with the approval of roxadustat by the National pivotal Farxiga outcomes trials in HF, type-2 diabetes, were presented at the Medical Products Administration, marking evaluating patients with reduced ejection American Diabetes Association and thefirst time that a first-in-class medicine fraction HFrEF and preserved ejection simultaneously published in The Lancet, wasapproved first in China.
Later in fraction HFpEF, both in patients with and demonstrating the potential to become a December 2018, we announced that the without type-2 diabetes.
These, along with first-in-class treatment for type-2 diabetes, primary endpoints were met in OLYMPUS several mechanistic studies, make Farxiga NASH and obesity.
andROCKIES, two  apotential first-in-class treatment to address trials within the global Phase III programme a significant unmet need in HF.
Further We follow the science to new clinical solutions forroxadustat conducted by AstraZeneca, research from the DapaCare programme is for metabolic diseases and are working with FibroGen and Astellas.
These trials will investigating renal outcomes and CV mortality leaders in the global diabetes community contribute to a pooled safety analysis, which in patients with CKD, the natriuretic effect toovercome obstacles to optimal care.
Led is anticipated during the first half of 2019 and andvolume changes in type-2 diabetes with byPrimary Care Diabetes Europe, we have will inform the US regulatory submission.
preserved or impaired renal function, and partnered to launch Early Action in Primary changes in proteinuria in non-diabetes and Care to address clinical inertia and resistance We are preparing for a broad launch of kidney diseases.
to early use of innovative treatments like Lokelma, a best-in-class treatment for SGLT-2s and GLP-1s.
In addition, with the hyperkalaemia, in major markets.
In March In type-1 diabetes, final results from the research group, Health Economics and 2018 Lokelma was approved by the EMA DEPICT programme trials were presented and Outcomes Research, we will issue a first-ofandin May 2018, Lokelma was approved published in 2018, and formed our regulatory its-kind predictive analysis on the economic bythe FDA.
Subsequently, our focus was on submissions currently under review in the EU value to health systems across Europe and the ensuring broad availability to patients at EMA, Japan PMDA and the US FDA, for US of treating diabetes and CV complications launch in the US and Europe in 2019.
In Farxiga as an adjunct treatment to insulin together, with the goal of improving October 2018, we presented positive Phase III foradults with type-1 diabetes.
If approved, reimbursement policy and patient outcomes.
data from HARMONIZE Global, a Lokelma trial Farxiga may be the first selective SGLT-2 whose data will support future registrations inhibitor with this indication, representing an inJapan, Russia, Korea and Taiwan.
important advancement for people with type-1 diabetes who have not seen meaningful We are exploring whether the medicines in treatment progression in decades.
In February ourportfolio could modify the progression 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products ofCKD or offer organ protection as part of forHuman Use CHMP of the EMA issued ourDapaCare programme see below.
apositive recommendation from the EMA touse Farxiga in adults with type-1 diabetes Metabolic diseases asanadjunct to insulin in patients with BMI 2 We are focused on redefining how diabetes 27 kg m, when insulin alone does not is treated in unison with CV and renal provide adequate glycaemic control despite diseases and the risk factors, harnessing optimal insulin therapy.
Regulatory decisions complementary mechanisms of action and for the type-1 indication are expected in the focusing on diverse populations with first half of 2019 in the EU and Japan.
The US significant co-morbidities, such as CV disease regulatory decision is expected in the second particularly heart failure, obesity, NASH, as half of 2019. well as diabetic nephropathy and CKD.
Our global clinical research programmes seek Bydureon, our glucagon-like peptide-1 GLP-1 toadvance understanding of the treatmentreceptor agonist for type-2 diabetes, has effects of our diabetes medicines on these become more convenient and available this co-morbidities across broad patient year to patients in multiple countries whose 60 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report can For the estimated 26 million people Science advance our understanding worldwide with heart failure, recent scientific progress in blood vessel and heart muscle regeneration may of the repair and regeneration lead to new ways of treating their disease.
Not so long ago, we assumed of tissues that heart failure was an almost inevitable consequence of damage to or death of cells in the hearts main pumping chamber, the left ventricle, caused by lack of oxygen due to an impaired blood supply.
However, we now know that there may be ways to help regeneration of blood vessels around heart muscle cells that are damaged by a heart attack, by high blood pressure or other cardiovascular problems that occur as people get older.
Our pioneering research is based on: Advances in understanding of vascular biology and the biological action of vascular endothelial growth factor A VEGF-A in stimulating formation of new blood vessels and helping to repair damaged heart muscle.
Developments in messenger ribonucleic acid mRNA technology to boost production of VEGF-A in areas of the heart mRNA is an essential part of the process by which genes in the form of DNA are decoded to make proteins.
The vascular and cardiac regeneration initiative brings together the complementary skills and expertise of scientists from AstraZeneca and Moderna.
This important collaboration, which began in 2013, is advancing the science of tissue regeneration for cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and in other therapy areas.
It is rapidly translating laboratory findings into clinical trials of novel therapeutic modalities, for example patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery AZD8601.
26m 26 million people worldwide with heartfailure Stem cell differentiating intoheart muscle cardiac regeneration.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 61 Therapy Area Review continued Respiratory We aim to transform the treatment of asthma and COPD with our growing portfolio of inhaled and biologic medicines.
Our research focuses on the underlying causes of respiratory diseases, using new modalities to pursue previously hard-to-reach targets, with the ambition of achieving remission or even cures for patients.
Unmet medical need and world market Today, more than 700 million people have asthma or chronic 339m obstructive pulmonary disease Some 339 million individuals worldwide have asthma, with COPD.
About 250 million of prevalence expected to rise.
these people are in our 12 largest Severe asthma accounts for commercial markets, but more than about 10% of asthma patients 175 million of these individuals do but 50% of the physical and socio-economic burden of asthma.
not receive maintenance treatment Millions of patients underuse their for these chronic diseases.
Despite anti-inflammatory maintenance currently available medicines, controller treatments which treat therapeutic advances are needed the underlying inflammation of the disease and are reliant toreduce morbidity and mortality.
We estimate that new medicines and Emerging Markets will drive 384m Globally, some 384 million people 7% annual growth over the next have COPD, and it is predicted to decade, reaching $47 billion be the third leading cause of death by2028.
COPD exacerbations represent a significant burden for patients, carers and society.
Even one severe exacerbation can significantly reduce lung function and is associated with highermortality.
Therapy area world market MAT Q3 18 $68.4bn Annual worldwide market value Asthma $20.5bn COPD $16.2bn Cilia wafting in the Other $31.7bn lung with a small molecule overlay.
AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments within this overall therapy area market.
62 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Key marketed products and Product Disease area Revenue Commentary revenues 2018 Symbicort Asthma $2,561m, Continued leadership of ICS LABA class with revenue Our Respiratory business returned budesonide COPD down 9% impacted by expected pricing pressure: AstraZenecas largest formoterol 10% at CER medicine by sales.
to growth in 2018, with sales of $4,911 million, up 4% 3% at CER.
Pulmicort Asthma $1,286m, up 9% Brand growth led by Emerging Markets with leadership Symbicort held its position as the budesonide 8% at CER in China.
leading inhaled corticosteroid ICS Fasenra Severe asthma $297m, Successful first year launch: leading the IL-5 class in new long-acting beta2-agonist LABA benralizumab movement n m prescriptions US and Japan.
Pulmicort continued Daliresp Daxas COPD $189m, down 5% 250mcg tablet approved as a starting dose in the US to deliver strong revenue growth, roflumilast 5% at CER and Europe.
ledby Emerging Markets in which Tudorza Eklira COPD $110m, Reflects the flat long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA China stood out.
In biologics, aclidinium down 27% market.
Sales in the US declined by 62% reflecting the impact Fasenra had strong launches in 35 29% at CER of federal purchases.
markets and achieved leadership in Duaklir COPD $95m, up 20% Growth in Europe is in line with expectations.
new prescriptions in the IL-5 severe aclidinium 14% at CER formoterol asthma class in the US and Japan.
Bevespi Aerosphere COPD $33m, up 106% Bevespi Aerosphere revenue and growth is in line with glycopyrrolate 106% at CER expectations based on focused investment in 2018, reflecting Respiratory revenue formoterol low class growth.
Others Asthma $340m, up 20% Mature portfolio.
Divestment of rights to Alvesco, Omnaris $4,911m COPD 18% at CER andZetonna to Covis.
23% of total 2017: $4,706m 2016: $4,753m Our strategy for Respiratory Our ambition is to transform outcomes for November 2017, Fasenra already leads patients with respiratory diseases through: the IL-5 class in new prescriptions in the Respiratory is one of our main US and Japan.
In the future, tezepelumab, therapy areas, and our medicines 1.
Our strength in inhaled combination a potential first-in-class anti-thymic stromal reached more than 18 million medicines.
lymphopoietin TSLP mAb that blocks a key patients as maintenance therapy 2.
upstream driver of inflammation in asthma, 3.
A robust early pipeline where our goal has the potential to become the broadest in 2018.
We have a strong pipeline istoachieve disease modification, biologic for the treatment of persistent with more than 33,000 patients earlyintervention and cure.
uncontrolled asthma seen to date if the participating in Phase I-IV Phase III programme reflects the positive respiratory clinical trials across In inhaled medicine, our focus is on two Phase IIb data, as noted in the New England keyareas of clinical care.
In asthma, we Journal of Medicine.
areworking to prevent attacks by reducing over-reliance on reliever monotherapy and Our early pipeline continues to grow and advancing anti-inflammatory reliever therapy, includes new drug modalities allowing us which is now under regulatory review for a toaddress hard-to-reach targets in the lung licence extension based on the landmark thatwere previously seen as inaccessible, for Symbicort Turbuhaler SYGMA trials.
We example: the Anticalin protein AZD1402, an continue to invest in Symbicort given its value inhaled IL4R antagonist currently in Phase in the treatment of asthma and COPD, also Idevelopment for asthma, in collaboration reflected by its continued leadership in the ICS with Pieris Pharmaceuticals.
In COPD, we are advancing our next generation inhaled Aerosphere portfolio Our respiratory market leadership in China with the ambition of reducing exacerbation positions us well to support improvements rates using our investigational triple therapy, inacute treatment using our leading PT010, earlier in the course of the disease nebulisation portfolio and establishing thanrecommended in guidelines today.
maintenance inhaled treatment as the standard of care in asthma and COPD.
Each In biologics, we aim to transform outcomes day the paediatric nebulisation programme among patients with the greatest unmet we support treats 300,000 patients, enabling medical need and relegate chronic oral them to receive  steroid use to last resort, given its association acute care for their condition.
Our first respiratory E lisabeth H. Bel.
Moving Upstream Anti-TSLP in biologic, Fasenra, is for severe eosinophilic Persistent Uncontrolled Asthma.
New England Journal asthma and is being investigated for other ofMedicine.
Approved in AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 63 Therapy Area Review Respiratory continued 2018 pipeline highlights that demonstrated its potential to improve severe, eosinophilic asthma, while our lung function in patients with COPD.
KRONOS anti-TSLP biologic, tezepelumab, was granted The progress of our pipeline in data also demonstrated the potential to US FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation 2018 reflects our commitment to significantly reduce exacerbation risk versus our first for a respiratory medicine for severe transforming critical areas of care LAMA LABA in a patient population that was asthma patients without an eosinophilic in respiratory.
not required to have had an exacerbation in phenotype, including those who are ineligible the previous 12 months a population for biologic therapies today.
We advanced Symbicort Turbuhaler and classified as GOLD B in international PT027 ICS SABA combination as antiguidelines, where triple therapy is currently Full details of our pipeline are given in the inflammatory reliever therapies in asthma.
In line with our strategy to Development Pipeline from page 212 and With PT010, our inhaled triple therapy, we transform outcomes with respiratory highlights from the progress our Respiratory made our first regulatory submissions and biologics, Fasenra was granted additional pipeline made against our KPIs in 2018 are published positive Phase III KRONOS data regulatory approvals around the world for shown below.
Life-cycle phases R&D N ew molecular entity NME Phase II Product Disease starts progressions None N ME and major life-cycle management Product Disease LCM positive Phase III investment PT027 Asthma decisions Plus one project where investment decision has been made.
Our co-development partner, Avillion, Led by partner Avillion.
achieved first subjects in the PT027 Phase III programme.
PT027 is an investigational fixed-dose combination of budesonide aninhaled corticosteroid and albuterol ashort-acting beta2-agonist.
N ME and major LCM regional Product Disease Region submissions Bevespi Aerosphere COPD Japan, China Key regulatory acceptances included our first Self administration, autoinjector Fasenra EU, US GRECO GREGALE filings for PT010 triple therapy in COPD in PT010 COPD Japan, China Japan and China, and Symbicort as an Symbicort Mild asthma EU anti-inflammatory reliever in mild asthma in the EU.
Life-cycle phases approvals N ME and major LCM regional Product Disease Region approvals Bevespi COPD EU Further regional approvals were seen with Fasenra Severe asthma EU, Japan Fasenra for severe asthma in Japan and severe eosinophilic asthma in the EU with the product now launched in more than 35 markets and Bevespi Aerosphere for COPD inthe EU.
Discontinued projects Product Disease Reason AZD7594 abediterol COPD Safety efficacy F or more information on the life-cycle of a medicine, see page 9.
64 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science help patients with severe asthma Eosinophils, a type of white blood granted Orphan Drug designation cell, are a normal part of the bodys by the FDA for the treatment of immune system, but for some people eosinophilic granulomatosis with with severe asthma, they can make polyangiitis and more recently, inflammation in the airways worse.
Fasenra is the only biologic to directly target the IL-5 receptor and deplete Since its approval in November 2017, eosinophils by recruiting natural more than 21,000 asthma patients killercells.
Early clinical trials show have received Fasenra, which Fasenra depletes blood eosinophils nowleads the IL-5 class in new within 24 hours after a single dose.
prescriptions in the US and Japan.
A feature of Fasenras launch has Fasenra is now approved and been the anecdotal stories clinicians launched in 35 markets as an add-on have shared with us about the maintenance treatment for patients positive difference it is having on with severe, eosinophilic asthma.
Severe asthma Patients receive Fasenra as a is a debilitating disease, which fixed-dose subcutaneous injection impacts many aspects of a patients via a pre-filled syringe every eight life and these stories reflect the weeks after initial loading doses.
difference an effective biologic Fasenra has been investigated for medicine can have for these patients.
self-administration and in an 2018 review strategy in action autoinjector device: regulatory The launch success of Fasenra Strength in inhaled combination medicines submissions were made in 2018 also supports our view that Our strength in inhaled combination medicines and we anticipate decisions in 2019. biologic treatment rates will was reflected in 2018 with Symbicort, which In addition, Fasenra is being significantly increase in the retained its position as the number one ICS investigated for indications in other coming years in line with the LABA combination globally in volume terms eosinophil-driven diseases, including evolution of treatment in other and is a cornerstone of current asthma and severe nasal polyposis, and has been inflammatory diseases.
We continue to invest in Symbicort, which remains AstraZenecas number one medicine in Product Sales in 2018.
Pricing pressure continues to impact Symbicort performance but was in line with controller treatments, resulting in preventable During the first half of 2018, the Phase III expectations as prices rebase ahead of exacerbations.
In China, the Chinese Journal SOPHOS trial read out, which compared anticipated generic entries.
This trend of General Practitioners guidelines were twodoses of PT009 to PT005.
PT009 met continues to be offset by Emerging Market updated to incorporate the SYGMA data.
itsprimary endpoint and delivered superior growth, led by demand for acute and Thisupdate recommended Symbicort as a efficacy to PT005 at morning pre-dose maintenance care in China.
In March, the potential treatment for all asthma severities.
through forced expiratory volume FEV 1 NMPA approved Symbicort Turbuhaler as a atWeek 24.
In September 2018, the TELOS maintenance and reliever therapy, designed We significantly progressed all Phase III trials Phase III trial, which investigated the efficacy for the treatment of asthma in adolescent supporting PT010 KRONOS, SOPHOS, and safety of PT009 in patients with moderate patients 12-17 years in China.
The Phase III KRONOS to very severe COPD, regardless of whether or trial was published in September in The not they had had an exacerbation in the prior In May 2018, positive results from the Phase III Lancet Respiratory Medicine.
KRONOS year, showed that PT009 is an effective SYGMA trials of Symbicort Turbuhaler were evaluated the efficacy and safety of triple maintenance treatment for patients with published in the New England Journal of combination therapy, PT010, versus dual COPD and a suitable comparator for PT010.
Medicine and presented at the American combination therapies Bevespi Aerosphere, The data were presented at the European Thoracic Society International Congress.
In the trial, Respiratory Society Congress and were Thetrials, which met their primary objectives, PT010 met six of seven primary endpoints published in the European Respiratory evaluated the efficacy of Symbicort versus dual comparators and PT009 met two Journal.
SOPHOS and TELOS were designed Turbuhaler, taken only as needed without non-inferiority endpoints to support the to qualify PT009 as an active comparator in maintenance therapy, as an anti-inflammatory qualification of PT009 as an active the PT010 clinical trial programme.
reliever compared with standard of care comparator.
In a key secondary endpoint, medicines for mild asthma.
In November, PT010 showed a statistically significant 52% In July 2018, the ETHOS Phase III trial, which weannounced that the Swedish Medical reduction in the rate of moderate or severe further investigates the efficacy and safety of Products Agency had accepted our COPD exacerbations compared with Bevespi PT010, completed enrolment of 8,400 patients regulatorysubmission for the EU to expand Aerosphere in a patient population that was across 28 countries.
the indication for Symbicort Turbuhaler, as not required to have had an exacerbation in ananti-inflammatory reliever as needed, in the previous 12 months.
The adverse events In addition, during the second half of 2018, patients with mild asthma.
Millions of patients profile was consistent with that observed in theregulatory submissions for PT010 were with asthma are reliant on their reliever previous trials and the incidence of accepted by the Japan MHLW and the China medications, which improve symptoms but do adjudicated pneumonia was low and NMPA, based on the KRONOS Phase III trial.
not treat the inflammation of this disease, and comparable in all treatment arms.
In January 2019, PT010 received Priority they underuse anti-inflammatory maintenance Review designation from Chinas NMPA.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 65 Therapy Area Review Respiratory continued Bevespi Aerospheres progress also Improvements in efficacy measures observed Biologic medicines continued in 2018 with regulatory approvals in with Fasenra in SIROCCO or CALIMA were Our first respiratory biologic, Fasenra, Canada and Australia.
In December 2018, the maintained over the second year of treatment.
continued to receive product approvals in European Commission approved Bevespi During the first quarter of 2018, we also 2018 with launches in more than 35 countries.
Aerosphere in a pressurised metered-dose commenced a Phase III trial of Fasenra for In January 2018, the EMA approved Fasenra inhaler pMDI as a maintenance dual thetreatment of nasal polyposis.
During the as an add-on maintenance treatment in adult bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms second quarter, we commenced the Phase IIIb patients with severe, inadequately controlled in adult patients with COPD.
In Japan and PONENTE trial further evaluating Fasenras eosinophilic asthma, despite their treatment China, the regulatory submissions for Bevespi potential to eliminate maintenance oral with high-dose ICS plus LABA.
In Japan, Aerosphere were accepted during the third corticosteroid use in patients with severe Fasenra was approved as an add-on quarter of the year.
treatment for bronchial asthma in patients who continue to experience asthma In August 2018, we announced top-line results During the third quarter of 2018, the SOLANA exacerbations despite treatment with from the AERISTO Phase IIIb trial for Bevespi Phase IIIb trial did not meet its primary high-dose ICS and other asthma controller s. Aerosphere in patients with moderate to very endpoint.
SOLANA is a randomised, doublesevere COPD.
In the trial, Bevespi Aerosphere blinded, parallel group, placebo-controlled Currently only 10% of eligible patients in our demonstrated non-inferiority to umeclidinium Phase IIIb trial.
The trial is designed to top 12 commercial markets receive a biologic vilanterol on peak FEV1 but did not evaluate the onset and maintenance of treatment, whereas biologic treatment rates in demonstrate superiority on peak FEV1 or effectand the safety of Fasenra in patients more mature inflammatory disease markets, non-inferiority on trough FEV1.
The efficacy with severe, eosinophilic asthma.
We are such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, are and safety of Bevespi Aerosphere has been evaluating the full data set and anticipate 3050% and growing.
The main factors that established by the Phase III PINNACLE trial theresults will be submitted for publication will drive the rate of growth include: availability programme involving more than 5,000 patients.
of effective medicines: improved clinical capabilities and capacity for severe asthma: Our medicines partnered with Circassia also In November 2018, the FDA granted and administration of biologics and evidence made progress.
In the second half of 2018, the OrphanDrug designation for Fasenra for the enabling the reduction or discontinuation FDA accepted the Duaklir NDA for the treatment ofeosinophilic granulomatosis with ofmaintenance oral corticosteroid use.
maintenance treatment of patients with polyangiitis.
In February 2019, Fasenra was AstraZeneca is investing to accelerate these COPD.
We anticipate a Prescription Drug User also granted Orphan Drug designation for the drivers beyond the medicine which should Fee Act action date in the first half of 2019.
In treatment of hypereosinophilic syndrome.
support biologics having the kind of impact the first half of 2018, on behalf of Circassia, that they have had in other inflammatory we submitted an sNDA for Tudorza to the In the fourth quarter of 2018, we submitted diseases.
The opportunity to transform FDA.
The submission was based on the regulatory filings in the US and the EU for morelives is significant.
results from the ASCENT trial, which achieved theaddition of self-administration and an its co-primary endpoints for safety no autoinjector device for Fasenra in severe In May 2018, we announced top-line results increase in cardiovascular risk MACE and asthma.
Decisions are anticipated in 2019. from two Phase III trials, GALATHEA and efficacy COPD exacerbation reduction.
It is TERRANOVA, for Fasenra in patients with anticipated that the US label will be updated In September 2018, with our partner Amgen, moderate to very severe COPD.
The trials accordingly in the first half of 2019.
In we announced that the FDA had granted didnot meet their primary endpoints of December 2018, Circassia announced plans Breakthrough Therapy designation for astatistically significant reduction of to acquire the full rights to Tudorza in the US.
tezepelumab in patients with severe asthma exacerbations.
We are reviewing the full without an eosinophilic phenotype, including dataset and do not currently intend to In addition, a 250mcg tablet for Daliresp Daxas those who are ineligible for biologic therapies makearegulatory submission in COPD was approved by the FDA in January 2018 and today.
This was the seventh Breakthrough basedon these data.
the EMA in April 2018 to be used as a startingTherapy designation we have received from dose treatment for the first four weeks, followed the FDA since 2014, and the first in respiratory In September 2018, results from the BORA by an increase to the maintenance dosage of medicine.
Tezepelumab is currently in Phase III extension trial evaluating the long-term 500mcg.
Daxas is indicated for maintenance development in the Phase III PATHFINDER safety and efficacy of Fasenra as an add-on treatment of severe COPD associated with clinical trial programme.
maintenance treatment in patients with severe chronic bronchitis in adult patients with a eosinophilic asthma who had previously history of frequent exacerbations, as an completed one of the two pivotal placeboadd-onto bronchodilator treatment.
controlled SIROCCO or CALIMA Phase III trials, were presented in a late-breaking oral In May 2018, Phase IIa data for AZD8871 were presentation at the European Respiratory presented in a late-breaking oral presentation Society International Congress 2018, and at the American Thoracic Society International subsequently published in The Lancet Congress 2018.
AZD8871 is an inhaled Respiratory Medicine in November.
In BORA, long-acting dual muscarinic antagonist 2 Fasenra showed a safety and tolerability profile adrenoceptor agonist under development for similar to that observed in the predecessor the treatment of COPD.
trials, with no increase in the frequencies of overall or serious adverse events.
66 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Other Disease Areas We have medicines and vaccines in other disease areas that have an important impact for patients.
As such, weare selectively active in the areas of autoimmunity, infection, neuroscience and gastroenterology, where wefollow an opportunity-driven approach and often workthrough partnerships.
Unmet medical need and world market The WHO estimates that seasonal influenza may result in 290,000 to 650,000 deaths each year due to respiratory Product Disease area Revenue Commentary diseases alone.
Infection Fluenz Tetra Influenza $110m, up 41% Approved in the US, EU, Canada, FluMist 44% at CER Israel and Hong Kong.
FluMist Quadrivalent returned to the US market in the third Key marketed products live attenuated quarter of 2018, in time for the andrevenues 2018 influenza vaccine 2018-2019 influenza season.
Daiichi Nexium is continuing to Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent in Japan.
perform strongly in China, while sales for the rest of Synagis Respiratory $ 665m, down Divested US rights to Sobi.
AbbVie palivizumab syncytial virus 3% 3% at CER holds rights to Synagis outside theworld are in line with RSV theUS.
expectations given pressures Neuroscience from generic competition.
Following the renewed Movantik Opioid induced $ 109m, down Licensed from Nektar Therapeutics.
Moventig naloxegol constipation 11% 11% at Kyowa Hakko Kirin has held rights recommendation from the CER in the EU since March 2016.
Knight Advisory Committee on Therapeutics Inc. has held rights in Canada and Israel since December Immunization Practices of 2016.
Co-commercialisation in the USwith Daiichi Sankyo.
FluMist Quadrivalent in the US, FluMist returned to the Seroquel IR Schizophrenia $ 361m, down Luye Pharma holds rights to Seroquel US market in the third quarter.
Seroquel XR Bipolar disease 29% 31% at and Seroquel XR in the UK, China quetiapine fumarate CER andother international markets.
The rights to Seroquel and Seroquel XR in Japan are partnered with Astellas.
Revenue from other products Vimovo Osteoarthritic $ 70m, down Licensed from Pozen and divested naproxen and pain 11% 13% at worldwide rights ex-US to $3,400m esomeprazole CER Grnenthal in October 2018.
Divested 16% of total US rights to Horizon Pharma Inc. 2017: $4,156m since November 2013.
2016: $5,067m Gastroenterology Losec Proton pump $272m, flat Prilosec inhibitor to treat down 2% omeprazole acid-related at CER diseases Nexium Proton pump $ 1,702m, down Divested European rights to esomeprazole inhibitor to treat 13% 14% Grnenthal in October 2018. acid-related at CER diseases AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 67 Therapy Area Review Other Disease Areas continued Our strategy for Other Disease Areas on-market products, advance Full details of our pipeline are given in the and 2018 pipeline highlights Development Pipeline from page 212 and thenovel product pipeline with highlights from the progress of our Other Our approach in these other disease partnerships where appropriate, Disease Areas pipeline made in 2018 areas looks to maximise revenue andpreserve a stake inthemost againstour KPIs are shown below.
through externalisation and promising assets.
Life-cycle phases R&D N ew molecular entity NME Phase II Product Disease starts progressions AZD9567 Rheumatoid arthritis MEDI7352 Painful diabetic neuropathy N ME and major life-cycle management Product Disease LCM positive Phase III investment None decisions N ME and major LCM regional Product Disease Region submissions None Life-cycle phases approvals Product Disease Region N ME and major LCM regional Linzess Irritable bowel syndrome with constipation China approvals An additional regional approval was seen Paediatric and sachet gastroesophageal Nexium Japan disease GERD withNexium in Japan, which enables and increases patient access to this medicine.
Discontinued projects Product Disease Reason Lanabecestat BACE early Alzheimers disease Safety efficacy MEDI9314 IL4R atopic dermatitis Strategic F or more information on the life-cycle of a medicine, see page 9.
2018 review strategy in action the highly effective H1N1 LAIV strain paediatric national influenza vaccination Infection includedin the vaccine before the 2009 programmes.
We also have an ongoing Seasonal influenza is a serious public health influenza pandemic.
agreement with the WHO to donate and problem that causes severe illness and death in supply stock at reduced prices in the high-risk populations.
In 2018, the US Advisory In 2018, Public Health England released eventofan influenza pandemic.
Committee on Immunization Practices, under provisional vaccine effectiveness five data the Centers for Disease Control and from the recent 2017-2018 influenza season.
MEDI8852, an investigational human mAb Prevention, reinstated its recommendation that VEacross all vaccine types was low against forthe treatment of patients hospitalised FluMist Quadrivalent live attenuated influenza the circulating A H3N2 virus, and all influenza withType A strain influenza, obtained a vaccine LAIV should be used in the US for manufacturers are continuing to work with grantfrom the US Department of Defense the 2018-2019 influenza season.
The public health authorities to optimise protection toconduct a Phase I IIa study in September recommendation followed a presentation of against influenza.
It received Fast Track designation positive results from a US study in children demonstrated Fluenz Tetra provided good fromthe FDA in March 2016. between the ages of 2 to 4 years evaluating protection against H1N1 post-pandemic and the shedding and antibody responses of the influenza B strains during the 2017-2018 Respiratory syncytial virus RSV is a common H1N1 strain in FluMist Quadrivalent.
The study season, further supporting the improvements seasonal virus and the most prevalent cause demonstrated that the new 2017-2018 H1N1 made in characterising and selecting H1N1 of lower respiratory tract infections LRTI LAIV post-pandemic strain A Slovenia post-pandemic LAIV strains following our among infants and young children.
It is the performed significantly better than the recent investigation into reduced effectiveness.
leading cause of hospitalisations and 2015-2016 H1N1 LAIV post-pandemic strain admissions to paediatric intensive care units A Bolivia, which was previously associated FluMist Quadrivalent Fluenz Tetra continues to and leads to nearly 150,000 deaths globally with reduced effectiveness.
The antibody be licensed in multiple markets, including the in children under five years of age, with the response induced with the new H1N1 LAIV US, Canada, EU, Israel and Hong Kong, and it majority of deaths occurring in developing strain was comparable to earlier data seen with remains a central part of the UK and Finnish countries.
Since its initial approval in 1998, 68 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Synagis has become the global standard of We are progressing MEDI7352 in painful Gastrointestinal care for RSV prevention and helps protect at diabetic neuropathy, which is in Phase II and Use of Nexium continued to grow in a limited risk babies against RSV.
Synagis is approved continue our collaboration with Takeda on number of markets such as China and Japan in more than 80 countries and we continue to MEDI1341 for Parkinsons disease, which in 2018.
This growth is expected to continue work with our worldwide partner, AbbVie, is in Phase I. following additional approvals in China for outside the US, to protect vulnerable infants.
high-dose treatment of peptic ulcer bleeding In May 2018, we announced an agreement and in Japan for paediatric patients from the In November 2018, we announced the with Luye Pharma for the sale and licence age of one, with the innovative Nexium sachet divestment of Synagis US rights to Sobi.
of the rights in the UK, China and other formulation.
The re-examination periods for Sobiwill commercialise Synagis in the US international markets to Seroquel and adult indications dosage of Nexium capsules andaround 130 AstraZeneca employees will Seroquel XR.
We had previously partnered and Nexium sachets have been extended for transfer to Sobi as part of the transaction.
the rights to Seroquel and Seroquel XR in two years in Japan, until 30 June 2021.
This Sobi also has the right to participate in Japan and Venezuela under prior agreements.
enables the completion of another clinical trial payments from the US profits and losses Seroquel, used primarily to treat for long-term treatment in the new paediatric forMEDI8897.
schizophrenia and bipolar disease, has population.
Nexium is subject to generic lost its compound patent protection globally.
competition globally, except for Japan.
MEDI8897, an extended half-life RSV mAb The Seroquel XR formulation patents have being investigated for the prevention of LRTI now also expired in the majority of markets.
In October 2018, we announced that we had caused by RSV in infants and young children, entered into an agreement with Grnenthal is progressing in collaboration with Sanofi.
Autoimmunity and inflammation forthe rights to Nexium in Europe and Vimovo Itis being developed for use among a In February 2018, six molecules from our worldwide excluding the US.
broadpopulation of late pre-term and healthy early-stage inflammation and autoimmunity full-term infants, so that they may only require programmes were spun out into an In January 2019, Ironwood announced they one dose during an RSV season.
In November independent biotech company, Viela Bio.
had received marketing authorisation from the 2018, we announced that the primary analysis Thenew company will focus on developing NMPA in China for Linzess for the treatment for the pivotal, Phase IIb trial to evaluate the medicines for severe autoimmune diseases ofpatients with irritable bowel syndrome with safety and efficacy of MEDI8897 showed that bytargeting the underlying causes of each constipation.
We entered into a collaboration the trial met its primary endpoint.
The molecules include inebilizumab, in China with Ironwood in 2012. these results, in January 2019, the EMA currently in Phase II trial development for the granted MEDI8897 access to its PRIME treatment of neuromyelitis optica spectrum PRIority MEdicines scheme and in February disorder, a rare condition that affects the optic 2019, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy nerve and spinal cord in approximately five designation for MEDI8897.
Neuroscience We announced in August 2018 that In June 2018, we announced with Lilly, the anifrolumab, a developmental mAb that discontinuation of the Phase III clinical trials of inhibits the activity of all type I interferons lanabecestat, an oral beta secretase cleaving IFN, did not meet the primary endpoint in enzyme BACE inhibitor, for the treatment of theTULIP 1 Phase III trial in systemic lupus Alzheimers disease.
The decision was based erythematosus SLE.
A full evaluation of the on recommendations by an independent data combined TULIP 1 and TULIP 2 data will be monitoring committee, which concluded that conducted to determine next steps for both the AMARANTH trial, in early Alzheimers anifrolumab in SLE.
The Phase II trials in disease, and the DAYBREAK-ALZ trial, in lupusnephritis and for a subcutaneous route mildAlzheimers disease dementia, were not of administration in SLE remain ongoing, as Our products While this Therapy Area Review likely to meet their primary endpoints upon does the long-term extension trial in SLE.
concentrates on our key marketed products, completion and therefore should be stopped many of our other products are crucial to for futility.
As a result of this decision, the In April 2016, AstraZeneca licensed its US ourbusiness in certain countries in related AMARANTH extension trial was also rights to develop and commercialise Zurampic Emerging Markets.
High-level results in December and Duzallo to Ironwood.
In August 2018, F or more information on our potential 2018 of the AMARANTH and DAYBREAK-ALZ Ironwood notified AstraZeneca of its intent new products and product life-cycle trials confirmed no significant disease slowing toterminate the licence for convenience.
In developments, please see the Therapy was observed in any of the Phase III trials, November 2018, Ironwood notified the FDA Area pipeline tables on pages 52, 58, 64 and 68 and the Development Pipeline confirming that the action to discontinue that it had discontinued the manufacturing table from page 212.
For information on thetrials was the correct decision.
ofthe products and contemporaneously Patent Expiries of our Key Marketed informed AstraZeneca that it is working on Products, see from page 217.
We also collaborate with Lilly on MEDI1814, withdrawing the NDAs for these products and Indications for each product described anantibody selective for amyloid-beta 1-42 terminating the FDA required post-marketing inthis Therapy Area Review may vary A 1-42 that is currently in Phase I trials as study.
This process is expected to take among countries.
Please see local apotential disease-modifying treatment for several months.
prescribing information for countryspecific indications for any particular Alzheimers disease.
For those of our products subject to litigation, information about material legal proceedings can be found in Note 29 to the Financial Statements from page 194.
Details of relevant risks are set out in Risk from page 220.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Therapy Area Review 69
