Strategy We announced our strategy for returning to growth in 2013.
The first phase in our journey was focused on rebuilding our pipeline.
Thesecond stage was crucial as we drove our Growth Platforms forward, continued to launch new medicines and made them available to patients.
We returned to Product Sales growth in 2018 and, as we look ahead to 2020 and beyond, continued investment in our product launches and pipeline will keep us on track to deliver sustainable growth in line with our targets.
Our strategic priorities We are a pure-play, global, science-led pharmaceutical company.
We are focused on the discovery, development and commercialisation of prescription medicines, primarily for the treatment of unmet medical need in three main therapy areas: Oncology: Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism: and Respiratory.
In 2018, our strategic priorities were focused under the three pillars listed below.
Be a Great Place to Work Leadership We are focusing on our Growth We are evolving our culture We are focusing our science on Platforms and transforming the and simplifying our business.
three therapy areas and business through specialty care, Wewant to attract and retain accelerating our pipeline.
Wearealso transforming our Targeted business development way of working.
We also want to do businesssustainably.
Achieve Group Financial Targets Effective delivery of our three strategic pillars will help us achieve our financial targets.
We aim todeliver great medicines to patients while maintaining cost discipline and a flexible cost base.
Wewish to maintain a progressive dividend policy and a strong balance sheet.
How we report our progress Key Performance Indicators KPIs Strategic Report The following pages present our KPIs for 2018.
Our KPIs are Our operating model comprises key business functions that are aligned to our three strategic priorities and are the indicators aligned to delivery of our strategy.
In addition, our therapy areas against which we measure our productivity and success.
We also provide strategic direction for each of our disease areas all the way monitor financial targets, which indicate whether we have delivered from early-stage development to commercialisation.
Our Strategic our strategy in a way that allows us to continue to operate as a Report therefore encompasses two types of review and our successful business.
Principal Risks: Our remuneration arrangements are also aligned to our strategic Business Review priorities as set out in our Group scorecard and reflected in our Provides information on key activities and progress within each of KPIs.
Achieve Scientific Leadership, Return to Growth and Achieve the three strategic pillars.
Within this section we report on our Group Financial Targets are included in the annual bonus targets.
pipeline, the key business functions that are integral to delivering our strategy R&D and Commercial, as well as those that we see as vital strategic enablers Partnering and Operations or which F or more information, see the Directors Remuneration Report underpin our business model Intellectual Property.
We also report from page 120. on our employees and how we do business sustainably.
Therapy Area Review Looks at each of our therapy areas, their developments and focus for 2018, as well as what is in the pipeline.
Risks We also review the risks that might challenge the delivery of our strategy.
F or more information, see Business Review from page 24, Therapy Area Review from page 50 and Risk Overview from page 70.
18 18 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report How our current strategy responds tomarket trends Our strategy reflects the way we have Strategic Priority How are we responding to our environment?
chosen to respond to the opportunities and challenges posed by the Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas, a range of drug modalities, emerging drug platforms and new technologies.
Achieve Scientific Strengthen our ability to match targeted medicines to patients who need them most.
together with our competition, as Leadership Drive R&D productivity by focusing on quality rather than quantity at all stages of outlined in Marketplace from page 11. drug discovery and development, and leveraging technology including the provision ofenhanced data and clinical insights.
Partner with academia, governments, industry and scientific organisations to: allow us to access the best and most advanced science and technology, and driveinnovation streamline regulatory processes, define and clarify approval requirements forinnovative drug and biologic products.
Maintain effective working relationships with health authorities worldwide, including the FDA in the US, the EMA in the EU, the PMDA in Japan, ANVISA in Brazil and the NMPA in China.
Make information about our clinical research publicly available and work with regulators and other stakeholders to ensure the appropriate level of data transparency.
Engage with policymakers to support improvements in access, coverage, care delivery, quality of care and patient care outcomes.
Return to Growth Leveraging technology across prevention and awareness, diagnosis, treatment and wellness to deliver better patient outcomes more efficiently.
Enable our Emerging Markets to deliver better and broader patient access through innovative and targeted equitable pricing strategies and practices.
Partner with industry, governments and academia to find ways to bring new medicines to market more quickly and efficiently.
Evaluate the use of real-world evidence to further bolster the evidence base around therapeutic and economic value.
Base pricing policy on four principles: value, sustainability, access and flexibility.
Consider innovative outcomes contracts with payers as a mechanism to pay forvalue.
Pursue a strong patent strategy from building robust patent estates that protect ourpipeline and products to defending and enforcing our patent rights.
Our Code of Ethics is built on a refusal to tolerate bribery or any other form ofcorruption.
B e a Great PlacetoWork Further ethics and transparency, and broaden access to healthcare: two of our sustainability priorities.
As a values-led organisation, we are able to recruit the best talent which underpins our innovation and growth.
Engender a high-performing culture and lifelong learning.
Harness different perspectives, talents and ideas as well as ensuring that our employees reflect the diversity of the communities in which we operate.
Looking ahead Beyond 2020 As we deliver the science-led transformation respond to an increased prevalence Questions such as these were among of our Company, developments are taking in NCDs, urbanisation and economic those discussed at our Boards formal place that are changing the world in which growth shifting east?
annual strategy review day as they ourpatients and employees live, and the maximise the opportunities arising considered the fitness for purpose of our environment and sector in which we operate.
from changing workforce dynamics strategy beyond 2020.
The preparation Looking to the future, we are considering the and improve productivity with an for thisyears review included the opportunities and challenges that these ageing workforce?
crowdsourcing of ideas from employees developments present and factoring them capitalise on digital and asan input into those deliberations.
For example, how do we: ?
F or more information on Board engagement connect better with patients who are with employees, see page 99. taking a more active role in managing their ownhealth?
meet the challenges posed by the rise of social enterprise and sustainable development?
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategy 19 19
