Unique journeys: consumers From desire, to research, to decision.
AutoTrader makes the consumer journey easier The role we play for consumers: New and used car Vehicle Check Motoring services search listings We offer a free standard We offer consumers a variety five point vehicle check of services to help them make an Consumers can search from 1 so consumers can quickly informed decision about the car 453,000 used cars and 6,000 assessthe provenance they are looking to buy.
These virtual cars on the marketplace of a vehicle.
Valuations Motoring advice Searching by We provide free vehicle We feature over 48,000 expert monthly budget valuations, offering both a and owner reviews, as well as With 52% of car buyers wanting private sale price as well as regularly updated editorial to search for their next car by a part-exchange price.
and advice articles to help 2 monthly price, we launched a consumers in their car buying new finance search tool which Price Indicator journey.
We recently launched allows them to do just that.
Over Powered by our valuations, anew series of expert reviews 8,000 retailers feature monthly these good, great or low price called The REV Test which are price payments on their adverts.
indicators give consumers full presented by expert female price transparency so they can automotive journalists and are Dealer reviews understand the price they aimed at helping both women and ratings are paying compared to the and men choose their next car Over 8,000 retailers feature in market value.
based on a monthly budget or circa 470,000 reviews, helping lifestyle change.
consumers make an informed Private sales and trusted decision about Consumers can list their who they want to buy from.
vehicles for sale directly to otherconsumers.
1 Average physical cars advertised on autotrader.
04 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Greater choice Over 1 453,000 8,000 used cars and 6,000 retailers feature monthly price virtual new make model payments on their adverts derivatives listed each month Auto Trader Group plc 05 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Unique journeys: retailers Average retailer Average Revenue forecourts Per Retailer pcm 13,213 1,695 06 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements From marketing, to finance, to deal.
AutoTrader makes the retailer journey easier The role we play for retailers: Classified advertising Finance solutions Valuations Retailer education Our core classified platform After gaining FCA authorisation, An improvement in the and insight reaches the UKs largest we can now enable retailers underlying data that powers As well as providing every automotive audience.
Our to display their own finance our valuations has allowed us retailer customer with monthly product packages enable calculator as standard on their to launch  performance dashboard retailers to compete effectively full page adverts on AutoTrader.
valuations which power price analytics to help them assess on the marketplace.
Our starter This allows retailers to show indicators consumers see their performance on retailer package now includes their finance offerings much on the marketplace.
Our AutoTrader, we also offer free products such as 100 images, earlier on in the car buying valuations also power our best practice events.
In the LiveChat, Dealer Reviews and journey, therefore increasing the part-exchange tool.
last year over 4,000 retailers the Part-Exchange Guide.
We opportunity for them to sell their have attended a free webinar, Creating a trusted offer progressively higher levels, own finance over a consumer masterclass or conference giving retailers the opportunity sourcing finance from elsewhere.
marketplace where our insight team have to pay for greater prominence We invest in technology and a shared the latest consumer Forecourt and stand out in a search.
security team that is focused insights and best practice advice.
management tools on creating a safe and secure Powered by both our own and marketplace.
We remove third-party data, we offer data misleading adverts and also intelligence solutions i-Control operate two-factor verification and Retail Check enabling on our platforms to protect retailers to buy the right stock, ourcustomers.
Auto Trader Group plc 07 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Unique journeys: manufacturers From production, to advertising, to sale.
AutoTrader makes the manufacturer journey easier The role we play for manufacturers: 3 New cars their recent purchase decision, Data-driven targeting weresponded with new video We know that 75% of buyers We have developed our own data format advertising.
consider new cars, so we added management platform DMP over 6,000 brand new car which allows us to use both first New car reviews make model variants.
These and third-party data to create and awards new cars are unregistered and highly targeted audience do not physically exist, and are Make model pages for all new segments for advertising.
We are called virtual stock.
cars improve the buying journey, utilising our DMP together with and the extra content enhances our Creative Solutions offering to Advertising solutions AutoTraders position in the new give manufacturers a compelling Our platform enables car market.
Last year we launched proposition to reach new manufacturers to advertise our first New Car Awards where carbuyers.
to the UKs largest car buying we asked over 10,000 consumers audience.
We provide to vote on their favourite cars manufacturers with a range based on true lifestyle categories of manufacturer and agency such as family car of the year options, including a new format andbest car for long distances.
InSearch, which allows brands These accolades were well to serve new car adverts within received by manufacturers, search results.
And as 58% of withsome using the award car buyers used video to inform in their marketing collateral.
08 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements A greater choice of virtual stock 6,000 brand new cars covered by our discovery search The automotive market Read more in the Market overview on page 14 58% of car buyers used video to inform their purchases Auto Trader Group plc 09 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
