Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their 2018 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 10.00 am on Report and the audited financial statements of 20September 2018 at the Companys registered office at 4th Floor, AutoTrader Group plc the Company and its 1Tony Wilson Place, Manchester, M15 4FN.
The Notice of Meeting sets subsidiaries together the Group for the financial out the resolutions to be proposed and specifies the deadlines for year to 31 March 2018. exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes will Statutory information be counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to Information required to be part of the Directors report can be found each resolution will be announced at the AGM and published on the elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below, and is Companys website.
incorporated into this Report by reference: Board of Directors Section of Annual Report Page reference The following individuals were Directors of the Company for the whole of the financial year ending 31March 2018, and to the date Employee Strategic report: Corporate social of approving this report unless otherwise stated: involvement responsibility page 44 Ed Williams Employees with Strategic report: Corporate social disabilities responsibility page 45 Trevor Mather Financial Note 2 to the consolidated Nathan Coe instruments financial statements David Keens Future developments Strategic report pages 1 to 49 Jill Easterbrook of the business Jeni Mundy Greenhouse gas Strategic report: Corporate social Sean Glithero resigned as a Director on 21 September 2017. emissions responsibility page 47 All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2018 Non-financial Strategic report: Corporate social AGM in line with the recommendations of the Code.
reporting responsibility page 39 Appointment and replacement of Directors At each AGM each Director then in office shall retire from office Information required by LR 9.8 with effect from the conclusion of the meeting.
When a Director Information required to be included in the Annual Financial Report by retires at an AGM in accordance with the Articles of Association LR 9.8 can be found in this document as indicated in the table below: of the Company, the Company may, by ordinary resolution at the Section of Annual Report Page reference meeting, fill the office being vacated by re-electing the retiring Director.
In the absence of such a resolution, the retiring Director Allotment of shares Note 21 to the consolidated shall nevertheless be deemed to have been re-elected, except during the year financial statements in the cases identified by the Articles.
Directors interests Remuneration report page 77 Results and dividends Significant shareholders Directors report page 82 The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year Going concern Principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 88 to 130. page 38 The Company declared an interim dividend on 9 November 2017 Long-term incentive Directors remuneration report of 1.9pence per share which was paid on 26 January 2018. schemes pages 74 to 78 The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of 4.0 pence Powers for the Company Directors report page 82 per share 2017: 3.5 pence per share to be paid on 28 September 2018 to buy back its shares to shareholders on the register of members at 31 August 2018, subject Significant contracts Directors report page 82 to approval at the 2018 AGM.
Significant related Directors report page 82 Amendment of the Articles party agreements The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Statement of corporate Corporate governance statement by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
governance pages 50 to 80 No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
Management report Authority to allot shares This Directors report, on pages 81 to 83, together with the Strategic Under the 2006 Act, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised report on pages 1 to 49, form the Management Report for the to do so by shareholders in a general meeting.
The authority purposes of DTR 4.1.
conferred on the Directors at the 2017 AGM under section 551 of the Strategic report 2006 Act expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM, and ordinary The Strategic report, which can be found on pages 1 to 49, sets out the resolution 13 seeks a new authority to allow the Directors to allot Groups strategy, objectives and business model: the development, ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,320,335 performance and position of the Groups business including 632,033,500 shares, representing approximately two thirds of financial and operating key performance indicators : a description of the Companys existing share capital at 7 June 2018, of which the principal risks and uncertainties: and the main trends and factors 315,969,350shares representing approximately one third of the likely to affect the future development, performance and position of Companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted the Groups business.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the conclusion of UK Corporate Governance Code the AGM in 2019 or 19 December 2019 if earlier.
The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate governance statement, the Report of the Nomination Committee, the Report of the Audit Committee and the Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 80, all of which form part of this Directors report and are incorporated into it by reference.
Auto Trader Group plc 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors report continued Authority to purchase own shares Restrictions on transfer of securities The Companys share buyback programme continued during the year.
The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary By resolutions passed at the 2017 AGM the Company was authorised shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions applicable to make market purchases of up to 97,476,919 of its ordinary shares, where any amount is unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are also subject to minimum and maximum price restrictions.
A total of imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and 26,809,702 ordinary shares of 0.01 each were purchased in the year marketing requirements relating to close periods and requirements to 31 March 2018, being 2.75% of the shares in issue at the time the of the Companys share dealing code whereby Directors and certain authority was granted.
The average price paid per share was 358.5p employees of the Company require approval to deal in the with a total consideration paid inclusive of all costs of 96.7million, Companys securities.
and all shares were purchased to be immediately cancelled.
The Change of control Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share schemes which AGM for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum may cause options and awards granted to employees under such of 10% of its own ordinary shares excluding shares held in treasury schemes to vest on takeover, there are no agreements between the either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation Share capital and control for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares purported redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
of 0.01 each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange Significant contracts LSE:AUTO.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BVYVFW23.
The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2018 and that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the 7 June 2018 comprises 952,161,444 of 0.01 each.
4,194,989 shares were Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are the held in treasury at 31 March 2018.
Further information regarding the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility agreements, which contain Companys issued share capital and details of the movements in customary prepayment, cancellation and default provisions issued share capital during the year are provided in note 21 to the including, if required by a lender, mandatory prepayment of Groups financial statements.
All the information detailed in note 21 all utilisations provided by that lender upon the sale of all or forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated into it substantially all of the business and assets of the Group or a by reference.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 25 to the Interests in voting rights Group financial statements.
At the year end the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rights attaching to shares Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following significant All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which have At 31 March 2018 At 7 June 2018 been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the Number of Percentage Number of Percentage shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
ordinary of voting ordinary of voting The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, following any shares rights over shares rights over grant of authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase voting ordinary voting ordinary or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off market, subject to rights shares of rights shares of Shareholder notified 0.01 each notified 0.01 each the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
BlackRock Inc. 100,307, 795 10.55% 80,654,003 8.50% No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special Baillie Gifford & Co. n a n a 47, 482,549 5.01% rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard Kayne Anderson 26,770,275 2.82% 49,059,618 5.18% to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely Rudnick Investment by the employees, other than in the case of the AutoTrader Group Management LLC Share Incentive Plan, where share interests of a participant in such CI Investments Inc. 37, 805,677 3.93% 27, 343,814 2.88% scheme can be exercised by the personal representatives of a deceased participant in accordance with the Scheme rules.
Transactions with related parties Voting rights As described in note 28, during the year, the Group transacted with Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general meetings Burns Sheehan Limited, a third party which a Director holds a of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be shareholding.
This company is deemed to be a related party.
Costs decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show incurred were in respect of recruitment consultancy services which of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a amounted to 35k 2017: nil.
There were no amounts outstanding at general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every the year end.
All transactions were completed at an arms length basis.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for Compensation paid to Directors and Key Management is as disclosed every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline in note 6 to the Group financial statements.
for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Research and development No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting either in Innovation, specifically in software, is a critical element of person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him, unless all AutoTraders strategy and therefore of the future success of amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been the Group.
Accordingly, the majority of the Groups research and paid.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any development expenditure is predominantly related to this area.
agreement that may result in such restrictions.
Since 30 September 2013, the Group has changed its approach to technology development such that the Group now develops its core infrastructure through small-scale, maintenance-like incremental improvements, and as a result the amount of capitalised development costs has decreased as less expenditure meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible assets.
82 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Indemnities and insurance Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view and officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such insurance of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their was in force for the whole of the financial year ending 31March 2018. profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and The Company also indemnifies the Directors under a qualifying parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: indemnity for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies Act select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 2006: in the case of the Non-Executive Directors in their respective make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable, letters of appointment and in the case of the Executive Directors in a relevant, reliable and prudent: separate deed of indemnity.
Such indemnities contain provisions that for the Group financial statements, state whether they have are permitted by the Director Liability provisions of the Companies been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Act and the Companys Articles.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether Environmental applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Corporate social responsibility section on page 47 and forms part of Company financial statements: this Report by reference.
assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a Political donations going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going There were no political donations made during the year or the concern: and previous year.
use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Post balance sheet events to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, On 6 June 2018 the Group signed into a new Revolving Credit Facility or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the New RCF to replace the existing Senior Syndicated Term Loan The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and revolving credit facility.
The New RCF, which is unsecured, has records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys total commitments of 400m and a termination date of June 2023. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the External branches financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure The Group had no active registered external branches during that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. the reporting period.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Financial instruments free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are given in and detect fraud and other irregularities.
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Disclosure of information to auditors responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Each of the Directors has confirmed that: Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have the corporate and financial information included on the Companys taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of the annual financial report Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect We confirm, to the best of our knowledge: of the Annual Report and Financial Statements the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the with applicable law and regulations.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties applicable law, and have elected to prepare the parent company that they face.
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the UK and Republic of Ireland.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Approval of Annual Report The Strategic report and the Corporate governance report were approved by the Board on 7 June 2018.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
Claire Baty Company Secretary 7 June 2018 Auto Trader Group plc 83 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
