AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 Board of Directors The Board has seen significant changes in the past 12 months, with a number of new members bringing a different mix of experiences, ensuring the Board continues to operate effectively and provides strong leadership.
Philip Aiken Craig Hayman James Kidd Christopher Humphrey Emmanuel Babeau Ron Mobed Jennifer Allerton Peter Herweck Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy CEO and CFO Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: French Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: German Time on Board: 6 years 1 month Time on Board: 4 months Time on Board: 7 years 5 months Time on Board: 1 year 11 months Time on Board: 3 months Time on Board: 1 year 3 months Time on Board: 4 years 11 months Time on Board: 3 months appointed 1 May 2012 appointed 19 February 2018 appointed 1 January 2011 appointed 1 July 2016 appointed 1 March 2018 appointed 1 March 2017 appointed 9 July 2013 appointed 1 March 2018 Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Chair, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Phil has over 45 years of Craig joined AVEVA in February James is a Chartered Accountant Christopher is a qualified Emmanuel has been Schneider Ron has a broad range of Jennifer has over 40 years Peter has been employed by experience in industry and 2018 as Chief Executive and joined AVEVA in 2004 at accountant and has over 25 Electrics Deputy Chief Executive global experience in electronic experience in technology working Schneider Electric since late commerce having been, from Officer.
Previously he was Chief the time of the Tribon acquisition.
years experience managing Officer, in charge of Finance information businesses across a in multinational companies in 2016 and is a member of 1997 to 2006, President of Operating Officer at PTC Inc, Prior to his appointment to the engineering and technology & Legal Affairs, since 2013, number of sectors and regions.
the UK, the US, Brazil, Asia and their Executive Committee.
As BHP Petroleum and then where he had responsibility for Board, James held several senior companies.
He was formerly after joining Schneider Electric He is Chief Executive Officer of Switzerland.
She was latterly a Executive Vice President he Group President Energy of engineering, marketing and sales.
finance roles within the Group Group Chief Executive Officer in 2009 as Executive Vice the Elsevier business of RELX member of the Pharma Executive heads the Industry Business for BHP Billiton, and prior to that He also served as President of and was Head of Finance from of Anite plc, from 2008 until President Finance and as a Plc and has also held Executive Committee and Chief Information the company.
he held senior positions with the Solutions Group.
At PTC, he 2006 until 2011, when he was 2015, joining Anite in 2003 Member of the Management positions with Cengage Learning, Officer of F. Hoffmann-La Peter began his career at BTR plc 1995 to 1997 and returned the digital engineering appointed CFO.
James was as Group Finance Director.
Roche, with responsibility for IT Mitsubishi Electric as a software BOC Group 1970 to 1995. business to growth, revitalised the Chief Executive from January Previously he was Group strategy and operations for the He began his career at Arthur He is a Fellow of the Institute development engineer in Japan Other roles have included Nonpartner network, and successfully 2017 to February 2018, leading Finance Director at Critchley Pharma division and all Group Andersen in 1990.
In 1993, he of Directors and of the Energy before joining Siemens in Executive Director of National introduced a new generation the merger with the Schneider Group plc and held senior IT operations.
Prior to that, she joined Pernod Ricard where he Institute.
He holds a Bachelors 1993, where he held a variety of Grid plc, Chairman of Robert of Industry 4.0 connected Electric Software Business before positions in finance at Conoco served as Technology Director held several senior finance roles degree in Engineering from positions in Germany and the Walters plc, Senior Independent manufacturing applications.
being appointed Deputy CEO and Eurotherm International at Barclaycard with responsibility and executive positions.
In 2001, Trinity College, University of US.
In 2004, Peter served as a Director of Kazakymys plc, and Chief Financial Officer of the plc.
He has a BA, MBA and is for Fraud Operations and IT and Prior to joining PTC, he was Emmanuel was appointed Vice Cambridge and a Masters member of the Managing Board Senior Independent Director of enlarged Group.
Prior to joining a Fellow of CIMA.
Christopher held senior positions in IT at president of eBay's enterprise President of Development.
He degree in Petroleum Engineering at Siemens Ltd in China and later Essar Energy plc, Senior Adviser AVEVA James worked for both has held Non-Executive Director Unilever and BOC.
business and served more than was appointed CFO in 2003 and from Imperial College, University North-East Asia.
In 2011 he was for Macquarie Capital Europe, Arthur Andersen and Deloitte, roles since 2011 and is currently 15 years in senior leadership Group Deputy Managing Director of London.
Ron was previously a Other Board roles have included appointed Head of Corporate Chairman of the 2004 World serving technology clients in Senior Independent Director positions at IBM.
He holds a of Finance in 2006, supervising Non-Executive Director of Argus Non-Executive Director of Oxford Strategy and Corporate Vice Energy Congress and serving both transactional and audit and Chairman of the Audit BSc.
in Computer Science and Finance, Information Systems Media from 2009 until 2011 and Instruments plc and Paysafe President.
In 2014, he became on the Boards of the Governor engagements.
Committee of Vitec Group plc, Electronics from the University of and Industry Administrations.
currently holds no other NonGroup plc.
She is Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer of the of Guangdong International Non-Executive Chairman of London.
Director of Iron Mountain Inc. and Process Industries & Drives Council, World Energy Council Eckoh plc and a Non-Executive Emmanuel graduated from cole Sandvik AB and serves on the division.
and Monash Mt Eliza Business Director of SDL plc.
Suprieure fide Commerce fide Advisory Board of the University School.
Paris ESCP in 1989 and holds a Peter studied automation of Bath Management School.
degree in finance and accounting technology at Saarland University He is the Non-Executive She has degrees in Mathematics, DESCF.
His other Nonof Applied Sciences, Germany, Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc Geosciences and Physics and Executive Director appointments and received a Masters degree and Non-Executive Director of speaks several languages.
include Sodexo S. A. and Sanofi.
in electrical engineering from Newcrest Mining Limited.
He holds an MBA and completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 45 Tenure of the Board Gender of the Board Sector experience of the Board Male Female 1 year Power 25% 3 Construction 25% 1-3 years Engineering 50% 2 Oil & Gas 25% 3-6 years 12.5% 1 Software 50% 6 years Technology 50% 2 Construction 38% Philip Aiken Craig Hayman James Kidd Christopher Humphrey Emmanuel Babeau Ron Mobed Jennifer Allerton Peter Herweck Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy CEO and CFO Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: French Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: German Time on Board: 6 years 1 month Time on Board: 4 months Time on Board: 7 years 5 months Time on Board: 1 year 11 months Time on Board: 3 months Time on Board: 1 year 3 months Time on Board: 4 years 11 months Time on Board: 3 months appointed 1 May 2012 appointed 19 February 2018 appointed 1 January 2011 appointed 1 July 2016 appointed 1 March 2018 appointed 1 March 2017 appointed 9 July 2013 appointed 1 March 2018 Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee Chair, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Chair, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Phil has over 45 years of Craig joined AVEVA in February James is a Chartered Accountant Christopher is a qualified Emmanuel has been Schneider Ron has a broad range of Jennifer has over 40 years Peter has been employed by experience in industry and 2018 as Chief Executive and joined AVEVA in 2004 at accountant and has over 25 Electrics Deputy Chief Executive global experience in electronic experience in technology working Schneider Electric since late commerce having been, from Officer.
