Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 03 Explanation of reported, pro forma and heritage results Summary of the different numbers Following the merger of AVEVA and SES, there are several different sets of results that have been disclosed and reported on.
The graph below indicatively shows the revenue of the heritage AVEVA business, the heritage SES business, the reported results that we are obliged to present, as well as what the performance of the enlarged Group would have been for the current year and the comparative period, as if the combination had occurred on 1 April 2016.
Statutory and pro forma numbers AVEVA Group plc is the legal acquirer AVEVA SES of SES as it will exercise control over the enlarged Group.
700 Schneider Electric Group, the former shareholders of the acquired entity 600 SES, now own the majority of the shares in the enlarged AVEVA Group.
500 This means that for accounting 400 purposes, the acquired company SES is treated as the acquirer, and so the 300 accounting treatment is the reverse of the legal position.
200 100 0 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 Heritage Pro forma Heritage Reported SES enlarged Group AVEVA Heritage AVEVA Reported Pro forma and heritage SES enlarged Group As stated above, the result of the reverse acquisition accounting is that The heritage AVEVA results are The enlarged Group pro forma from the date of completion 1 March almost entirely lost under reverse shows what the results in both years 2018 the results of both entities are acquisition accounting.
For would have been had the business combined, but everything prior to transparency, a summary income combination occurred at the start of this date, including comparatives, statement of heritage AVEVA is the comparative period 1 April 2016. contain numbers only from SES.
included in a table and discussed within the Finance Review.
This therefore shows 12 months of Although these numbers are what trading of heritage AVEVA, plus 12 is required under the accounting Whilst the SES results are closely months of trading of SES, for both reporting standards and therefore aligned with the reported results, years shown.
This allows for a more what make up the financial these also include heritage AVEVAs meaningful analysis of the 2018 statements, they are less helpful results for the month of March, the performance of the enlarged Group.
in terms of understanding the largest month of the trading year.
performance of either the enlarged A summary of the key income An abbreviated set of accounts, Group or of the individual parts of statement results for SES are comprising the income statement the business.
also given and explained in the and associated notes, have been Finance Review.
included as a pro forma on pages 141 Therefore, more emphasis and focus to 144. is placed on the pro forma results in These two sets of figures can be the Strategic Report, which will found on pages 25 to 27. provide a much clearer picture of the performance of the enlarged Group.
