AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 18 Strategic Framework AVEVA has seen excellent progress against key strategic objectives in the year, and the combination with SES brings a step change in the business, delivering digitalisation solutions across the asset life cycle.
For over 50 years, weve enabled some of the worlds largest software, driving digital transformation across the entire asset industries to work more safely, efficiently and sustainably.
and operational life cycle of capital-intensive industries.
Following the successful completion of the combination with the Schneider Electric industrial software business SES, our global Detailed below are our five strategic priorities during the 2017 18 reach, end-to-end software capabilities and the diversity of financial year, outlining AVEVAs recent progress as well as how industries we serve have all been enhanced, reinforcing our the combination is a good fit for each.
position as the global leader in engineering and industrial Strategic priority Progress made pre-combination Effect of the combination Heritage enlarged Group AVEVA 12-month pro forma 1 MT3D More than 3D AVEVAs core business has historically been in the 3D arena for We have steadily seen the proportion of MT3D sales grow AVEVAs product portfolio has historically been focused on creating and managing 3D design tools as a proportion of both Plant and Marine with our best-in-class design tools, which over the last three years and this now represents 29% of the engineering data in the capital expenditure build phase of the asset life cycle.
The revenue: together have typically accounted for approximately 75% of revenue.
revenue for heritage AVEVA with particularly strong growth in combination with SES is very complementary, bringing a world leader with a broad The MT3D initiative aims to grow sales through focusing on our the year from Schematics, Engineering, Enterprise Resource software portfolio used to simulate, manage and control the operations phase of the asset other excellent complementary tools used in the engineering Management ERM and ProCon.
This has come from leveraging life cycle.
By combining the behavioural information from this phase with the structural 71% 25% and design process, such as AVEVA Instrumentation, as well as our installed base as well as from sales to new customers.
information and asset visualisation capabilities from the heritage AVEVA business, we are information management applications such as AVEVA NET.
now able to offer customers an integrated, end-to-end product portfolio and true Digital Twin through the whole asset life cycle, with substantial cross-selling opportunities.
2 Owner Operators OOs OOs are some of the largest multi-national companies in We have steadily seen the proportion of OO sales grow Most of the revenue from SES comes from OOs, given their focus on the operational OOs as a proportion of revenue: the world, ultimately responsible for owning and operating over the last three years, accounting for 16% of standalone phase of the asset life cycle.
This will benefit AVEVA in providing access to these industrial assets.
AVEVAs historical strength has been with the AVEVA revenue for FY18.
We won several new customer customers and the ability to offer a unique, unrivalled combined offering, helping OOs Engineering, Procurement & Construction EPC customers logos in the year, representing strong progress in this area.
realise the vision of the Digital Twin.
The combination also provides us the ability to 16% 63% who are contracted by the OOs.
As OOs seek to take control cross-sell the engineering and design tools and to secure more service offerings.
OO of their engineering data as part of the journey of digitalisation, revenue for the enlarged Group now accounts for 63%, compared to 16% of heritage the opportunity with the OOs is two-fold.
Firstly, OOs have AVEVA revenue last year.
For more detail on the asset life cycle, see pages 8 to 9. the ability to mandate the use of our products throughout their supply chain, and secondly, OOs themselves are demanding engineering and management tools for brownfield projects and to maintain their engineering data in operations.
3 Growth Markets A key market for AVEVA is defined as one that is experiencing The heritage AVEVA business has in recent years generated The combination means we now have a large North American presence with 1,213 Americas revenue: high economic growth, or one with strategic significance due almost half of its revenue from Europe, with an underweight employees and many key US customer relationships which brings a significant to its potential for increasing market share.
These regions presence in some high-growth emerging economies, and opportunity for growing our revenue base and cross-selling.
In addition, our are China, India, the Middle East and North America.
low market share in the North American market.
Specific presence in China, India and the Middle East is also expanded through the 14% 36% focus on North America in FY18 saw us grow revenue combination allowing us the opportunity to grow our revenue in these markets.
by a record 30% in the heritage AVEVA business.
4 Broadening Market Exposure AVEVAs heritage market is Oil & Gas, particularly upstream Oil & Gas has typically represented 40-45% of the heritage Whilst Oil & Gas also represented some 40% of the heritage SES revenue, this primarily Upstream Oil & Gas revenue: and offshore.
However, our technology is well suited to a wide AVEVA revenue in the last few years with the majority focused on related to downstream and midstream end markets, thus diversifying the enlarged range of industries, offering exciting growth opportunities.
This proportion has been falling each Group away from upstream extraction.
Furthermore, SES operates in many industries year as we focus our efforts on diversifying into other end markets where AVEVA has had little or no market presence, such as Pharmaceutical, Food & 40% 15% such as Power, Mining, Chemicals and other process industries.
For more details on our markets, see pages 10 to 11.
5 SaaS and the Cloud We intend to unify all of our applications onto a Over the last two years, AVEVA has started on its Cloud journey, The heritage SES business had been following a similar Cloud journey to Number of cloud-based customers: common Cloud platform to enhance ease of customer first releasing AVEVA Experience, a Cloud-based trial version AVEVA.
The combination offers the opportunity and brings the ability to adoption and address a wider customer base.
of AVEVA E3D for prospective customers, and subsequently scale our SaaS and Cloud offerings faster in a more cost-effective manner, our own SaaS platform, AVEVA Connect, through which an allowing us to develop integrated solutions from both portfolios.
60 100 increasing number of our products are becoming available for commercial use.
Customer take-up for SaaS is still in its infancy but we are seeing increasing demand for Cloud-hosted offerings, particularly from North American companies.
With ERM and ProCon on AVEVA Connect delivered to a number of customers we are looking forward to seeing a positive effect on Cloud demand from both existing and new customers.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 19 Our strategy for long-term growth centres around five strategic positive revenue synergies that will result from combining priorities, and the combination with SES is a key strategic fit for product portfolios and sales teams around the world, providing AVEVA, impacting positively on all of these priorities, which are greater access to particular high-value and high-growth markets, discussed in more detail below.
A new strategy is being formulated for the enlarged Group and is planned to be finalised The current focus for the Board, management and employees is ahead of the capital markets day in September 2018. to ensure the success of the integration, capitalising on the Strategic priority Progress made pre-combination Effect of the combination Heritage enlarged Group AVEVA 12-month pro forma 1 MT3D More than 3D AVEVAs core business has historically been in the 3D arena for We have steadily seen the proportion of MT3D sales grow AVEVAs product portfolio has historically been focused on creating and managing 3D design tools as a proportion of both Plant and Marine with our best-in-class design tools, which over the last three years and this now represents 29% of the engineering data in the capital expenditure build phase of the asset life cycle.
