28 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Our technology Our sophisticated technology gives us the edge over attackers, and sets us apart from the competition We did not 1988 Today Avast was founded 30 years Today, the technology realise then, ago at the Research Institute underpinning our products and for Mathematical Machines in services is now highly complex.
the adventure Prague where founders Pavel While we have expanded into Baudis and Eduard Kucera many new areas, our pioneering, that we had worked together.
Out of curiosity, technology-led ethos remains Pavel disassembled the Vienna the same.
virus, which another colleague gave him on a oppy disk, and Pavel Baudis and Eduard Kucera subsequently developed a Founders general antivirus programme that would check the integrity of the computer system.
Avast annual report 2018 29 Unparalleled innovation Avast attracts some of the smartest Malware Detection and Blocking cybersecurity experts in the industry AI and Machine Learning who have built an intelligent threat detection network unmatched by our Internet of Things competition.
They have contributed to Device Optimisation and Cleaning our growing patent portfolio across five key competitive areas: Location Technologies Our technology is a crucial competitive advantage For three decades, we have been developing an ever more sophisticated, market-leading cybersecurity platform, built on five key components: Our global AI and machine learning A robust user base technologies at scale protection engine provides the big data process our data in near comprised of multiple that gives us the real-time to gain insights layers of defence keeps leading edge in the ght for detecting new and our users safe against cybercriminals evolving threats A large scale operational A dedicated team cloud infrastructure focused on delivering supports the scale, speed, and market leading IoT sophistication of a world-class and network security threat research and threat labs operation More information on our use of AI is explained on the following pages 30 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Our technology Arti cial intelligence at scale NotPetya and BadRabbit, the Adylkuzz As the demand on our products expands Machine learning and arti cial crypto-mining attacks, and banking trojan from both our massive user base and the intelligence rely on a huge amount Emotet, which was the subject of a United constant march of new threats, so our of high quality data.
We constantly At Avast, these smart tools sift through feed our machine learning engines with Sophisticated threat prevention requires 390 terabytes of threat data collected real-time threat information to ensure multiple machine learning engines that from our massive user base.
We extract previously unknown zero day detection work hand-in-hand to defend against over 500 features from each le and run that blocks threats before they can do attacks.
The engines run both in the a clustering algorithm to put these les any harm.
cloud and on device, using a variety of in order.
analysis techniques, and are deployed We prevent 1.5 billion malware attacks across our six layers of defense.
against our users every month by The combination of next-gen security checking 300 million les and 200 billion technology and the data from our massive web addresses.
In the last two years, user base give us a clear advantage we protected our users from some of against cybercriminals.
the highest impact attacks that have ever occurred including the infamous WannaCry ransomware attack, and other major ransomware exploits such as Malware protection: six layers of defence 1 2 3 4 5 6 MACHINE LEARNING CLOUD Web Shield Static Scanner Emulators DeepScreen CyberCapture Behavior Shield processes all analyses all simulates the uses machine prevents the this monitors web traffi c, using executable code environment of a real learning algorithms rarest and most the system algorithms to analyse prior to it running, PC before letting to identify similarities sophisticated malware for suspicious URLs and protect using techniques new scripts and les with known malware from in ltrating a activities and against phishing, including PE structure have full access to families in an isolated users system.
It unusual behaviour malware and other analysis, linker users systems.
This sandbox clone of submits unusual while programs web-borne attacks.
analysis, unpacking means we can detect the underlying and potentially are running and fide-obfuscation, and and prevent against operating system.
malicious les to a stops activity similarity, fuzzy, and previously unknown cloud-based cleanevaluated as algorithmic matching.
zero-day malware, room environment malicious before This classi es a le as new variants of for analysis using it does any harm.
This layer was and software CyberCapture instrumental vulnerability exploits.
processes over in stopping 20,000 such unique WannaCry in 2017. les every day.
Avast annual report 2018 31 The problem we face today is We battle adversarial arti cial intelligence that the bad guys Avast is investing heavily in developing We have learned a great deal in arti cial intelligence AI algorithms to recent years, and our products combat the forces of adversarial AI have bene tted.
that is, where our AI algorithms are likely we anticipate that cybersecurity to go up against AI algorithms whose will essentially be AI versus AI, Ondrej Vlcek goal is to do harm.
and the winner will be the party President, Consumer with more advanced algorithms, based on better data sets.
32 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Our technology Large-scale cloud AI enables us infrastructure to detect and Our infrastructure means that we can Avast boasts one of the stop threats in rapidly consume and analyse massive worlds largest AI-based cloud amounts of data.
Operating at this scale infrastructures dedicated to and speed gives us insight into, and the real-time.
security, with approximately ability to mitigate, threats as soon as 10,000 servers across the globe they appear.
Monika Seidlova processing up to 60 million Threat Labs Researcher connections simultaneously.
10,000 servers serving as a global threat detection network up to 60 million concurrent connections 50 petabytes of data transmitted 205 gigabits second peak download speed 265,000 simultaneous VPN connections 2.5 trillion URLs analysed per year Avast annual report 2018 33 Threat intelligence research Some of the leading research from Avast Threat Labs last year included: Our threat intelligence team tracks global threats in real time: analysing WannaCry: this was the biggest Torii: Avast was the first to share in-depth ransomware attack in history, in which research on this highly sophisticated and new malware: excavating the dark Avast detected and blocked 176 adaptable IoT botnet which appeared in web where cybercriminals trade million WannaCry infections across 217 September 2018. tools, techniques and stolen data: countries.
In March 2018, Avast identi ed Cosiloon: in May 2018, Avast partnered and identifying attackers new the ongoing prevalence of the worm, with Google to identify and take steps methods and capabilities.
blocking 54 million WannaCry attacks to address the Cosiloon malware we and discovering that nearly one-third of discovered pre-installed on several Windows PCs globally are still running hundred diff erent Android device models with the EternalBlue vulnerability, which and versions, aff ecting tens of thousands WannaCry exploits in order to spread.
of new handsets from well-known manufacturers straight out of the box.
