10 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Markets & threat landscape We operate globally, in large and attractive business markets Consumer direct Small to mid-size business The foundation of our success is a strong We sell to businesses directly online, and direct-to-consumer brand and business, via our channel partner networks.
Growth where users pay us for our products.
is stable on endpoint device protection, while network security is on the cusp of Consumer indirect a large-scale transition from on-premise equipment to more convenient and Our indirect consumer business, where exible  SaaS, partners pay us for distribution and access cloud-based solutions.
to our user base, continues to grow as people spend more time online.
We have also extended our market reach through ahealthy ecosystem of partners, such as mobile carriers, that take our solutions to market.
Avast annual report 2018 11 Our core addressable market segments of consumer security, SMB security and analytics are expected to grow to over 1,2 $21 billion by 2021.
$21.3bn $14.6bn Consumer direct 10% Compound annual growth Consumer indirect rate CAGR Small to mid-size business 2017 2021 2 1 Consumer direct Consumer indirect Small to mid-size 2 business 7% 11% 15% CAGR CAGR CAGR $10.4bn $7.8bn Smart home $6.9bn Analytics $5.9bn Consumer Security $3.1bn Browser $1.8bn E-Commerce SMB Cloud SaaS SMB Endpoint 2017 2021 2017 2021 2017 2021 1 Source: Gartner Research, Forecast: Information Security and Risk Management, Worldwide, 2016-2022, 3Q18 Update.
12 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Markets & threat landscape Lives lived increasingly online carry greater security and privacy risks Our offl ine and digital lives are coalescing: routine activities like shopping, banking, chatting with friends, accessing news or entertainment, working and learning are all increasingly conducted online.
This expanding and ever-changing online ecosystem makes it extremely diffi cult to keep people safe while they are using the internet.
Consumers are monitored and tracked as they use the internet, compromising privacy as never before.
Hacks and mass privacy breaches are becoming more common as attackers grow more sophisticated and more personal data is stored online.
Just in the last twelve months, privacy and security breaches have become a common news item, and many people are now very worried about these issues.
Avast annual report 2018 13 Threats are becoming more sophisticated and damaging.
Jiri Bracek Vice President, Threat Labs People are The scale increasingly and magnitude concerned about of cybercrime cy cyb be ercrime is increasing Gr Gro ow wth th iin ransomware, identity theft, and Avast is now blocking over 1.5 billion sociall socially y engineer e ed malware like phishing malware attacks each month across a at tta tac ck ks s i s becoming a top of mind concern.
our network of hundreds of millions Consumer Consum s reported worrying more of connected users.
Cybercriminal abou about t digi d tal crimes such as identity theft earnings through ransomware attacks and and online on financial hacking compared have been on the rise over the last t to o p phy hysical crimes such as car theft, five years, although disruption rather home home burglary and terrorism.
than pro t is sometimes the motivation behind some of these attacks.
Top security concerns Bus B inesses amongst SMBs ar a e worried too Malware, Corporate data spyware and security and IIn n the small business world, Avast ransomware data theft 1 re r search found SMBs are very worried about cybercrime.
As cybercrime becomes more sophisticated and 52% 57% prevalent, this is likely to increase.
Password hacks Wi-Fi Security 46% 40% 1 Source: Company study with SMB user base, 2018.
14 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Markets & threat landscape Smart Home technology is red-hot, and so are the risks Mobile carriers are asking for Internet of Things solutions to keep their subscribers safe.
Leena Elias Vice President, Product Delivery Avast annual report 2018 15 There are currently over 600 million The threat connected devices across 90 million landscape smart homes: these numbers are expected to roughly triple to over is becoming 1.8 billion devices across 250 million more complex 1,2 homes by 2021.
Five key trends will impact users in 2019: From smart speakers and entertainment systems to a wide range of connected 1.
The sophistication and platformi cation 40% home safety products such as video of malware: hackers are designing selfdoorbells, security cameras, smoke of smart homes worldwide defending malware, especially in IoT, to detectors, and baby monitors, in 2019, contain at least one operate for longer.
This malware acts as most newly-purchased household 3 vulnerable device a platform used to launch other attacks, devices can be connected to the rather than causing the harm itself.
Hijacking PCs to generate Solutions for IoT security are starting 60% cryptocurrency: with CoinHive going to be available through channels out of business, coin mining persists of routers worldwide have including carrier and retail, as well through misuse of legitimate mining 3 security issues asdirect to consumers.
It is possible threat actors will tweak the code to build the infrastructure to replace CoinHive but likely on a smaller scale and without legitimate users.
More mobile malware: mobile Banking Trojans rose 150% in 2018 and account for 7% of all mobile malware.
Aggressive ad-based malware rose by 49 percent 4 and fake apps rose by 24 percent.
Devices targeted at point of manufacture: consumer electronics devices are being infected within the supply chain, during manufacturing and shipment, as most recently happened to the compromised automated ASUS Live Updater system.
Hackers exploit vulnerable devices, as the market for them is highly cost sensitive, leading to insuffi cient investment in security controls.
The bad guys use arti cial intelligence too: we are researching this new class of threat where bad hackers use Arti cial Intelligence within their malware, giving it the ability to adapt and evade existing controls and detection mechanisms.
1 Source: ABI Research, Internet of Everything Market Tracker, Q3 2018.
4 Source: Avast Threat Landscape Report, 2 Source: ABI Research, Smart Home Systems Q3 2018.
3 Source: Avast Smart Home Report, February 2019.
