16 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Business model We off er our customers protection, performance and privacy Launching AntiTrack for Avast Protection Performance and AVG Our protection products range from The average age of a PC today is six 1 our agship Avast Free Antivirus years old, so the need to improve through to our full-featured subscription performance on these devices is growing.
1 year security suites for PC, Mac, Android Our performance products clean waste and iOS devices.
Family safety and data off devices to keep them running like 2 brands smart home Internet of Things or IoT new.
Our product line-up is led by Avasts 22 countries security are emerging services within popular Avast Cleanup for PCs and Macs, our protection portfolio.
which also includes a mobile version for Android phones and tablets.
Our CCleaner 5.6 billion cleaned trackers Our agship security product won brand is also a favourite among users, several prestigious awards in 2018 412k paying customers and generates strong customer loyalty.
including Product of the Year from and growing AV Comparatives, PCMag Editors Privacy Choice in the U. S. and a Which?
We off er products including Best Buy recommendation in the UK.
Avast AntiTrack, Avast SecureLine Our small to mid-size business portfolio VPN Virtual Private Network and for end users and channel partners off ers Avast Secure Browser.
a range of layered security network and Our products are cross-platform, working endpoint protection products.
Industry on PCs, Macs, smartphones Android and analyst Frost & Sullivan recognised iPhone and tablets to meet the needs of Avast Business with its Global Endpoint New products for 2018 our users.
Management Growth Excellence Avast Secure Browser Leadership Award in 2018.
Sets a new benchmark for providing a private, fast and safe browsing experience to all users.
A Av vas a t Mobile Security iP iPhone ho app which provides a range o of f d da ata and identity protection to too olls to k s eep users safe and pr priv iva ate on their Apple products.
A AV VG Secure VPN D Ded edi icated Virtual Private Network pr pro oduc d t provided to AVG users t th hr ro ou ugh our cross-sell channel.
1 Source: Avast PC Trends Report 2019. s s e n i s u B d e u n i t n o c s i D g n i d u l c x e e Avast annual report 2018 17 We generate revenues in three diff erent ways Consumer Consumer Small to midDirect Indirect size business Customers pay us directly Partners pay us for distribution Business customers either pay us for a product and access to our user base directly for a product, or buy from one of our partners 11% 8% Avast platform 81% u n e v e R d e t s u j d A 8 1 0 2 f o n o i t r o p o r P 18 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Business model Our platform model has revolutionised the industry Our platform model is simple: high-quality products off ered to customers for free create a massive user base, from which were able togenerate revenues in multiple ways.
Consumer Direct 3 Selling subscriptions directly to What we do How we do it consumers through app stores and We off er free and paid-for consumer PC Our antivirus solutions use arti cial the Avast website and mobile antivirus security software intelligence and machine learning to Building up revenue is signi cantly under the Avast and AVG brands.
Our conduct behavioural analysis of threats, easier with a large, growing user base, products secure not just our users and improve detection abilities.
which we can target with up-selling and devices, but also their data, networks, cross-selling campaigns.
In using our products, our users send back a continuous stream of anonymised We also off er applications for PCs and Our strengths threat data such as attempted attacks.
mobile devices that enhance performance This means that our software automatically and improve privacy under the Avast, More than 50% of our employees work in becomes more and more capable of AVG and CCleaner brands.
research and development, focusing on detecting and stopping those threats.
The rapid growth of connected devices, the Internet of Things, has created new An important outcome of that investment How we make money privacy and security threats, which we is that our users, industry product have developed products to address.
1 Convincing users of our free test organisations, and specialist and antivirus software to pay for generalist press frequently recommend advanced features our software, which consistently outranks the competition.
2 Up-selling existing paying customers a higher tier of paid software, or cross-selling other products, like Virtual Private Network VPN access or PC optimisation tools Avast annual report 2018 19 Consumer Indirect Our analytics business uses anonymised What we do Our strengths and aggregated user data to off er our partners insights into wider Our platform is attractive to partners who As with our other revenue streams, consumer behaviour.
want to reach our users: in consumer the key is our broad reach, based on a indirect, we make money without massive global user base that trusts Avast How we make money direct payment from our product users.
Access to this user Products and services include secure base is an attractive proposition for our When users search using Avast Secure web browsing, distribution of third party carefully-vetted partners.
Browser, we earn a share of the software, an e-commerce tool, analytics, advertising revenue generated by As more people use their mobile devices and mobile advertising.
to do more online, our mobile platform allows us to target users with products and Third-party software is distributed How we do it services that are meaningful and useful to to our user base in exchange for a each user.
Avast Secure Browser helps users small payment.
to stay safe online and achieve better control of their personal online footprint.
Through our partnership with Google, we distribute the Chrome browser to our user base.
SMB Avast Cloud Secure Web Gateway What we do Our strengths and Secure Internet Gateway are new products.
We have been trialling these Our endpoint security solutions protect Our antivirus endpoint platform is wellwith our partners, following our April 2018 small to mid-sized businesses SMBs.
known and respected in the security agreement with Zscaler to sell integrated, industry.
Our reach means that we are Our network security solutions protect white-label network security services.
able to collect more data than our corporate networks against the most competitors, and so our software We work with many types of partners: advanced threats.
including licence resellers, distributors, All our SMB solutions can be managed By making the most of this strength, and by value added resellers VARs, either on a clients premises or remotely.
introducing tailored applications and our Managed Security Partners MSPs, Uni ed Threat Management cloud-based and strategic manufacturers.
solution, we can protect our customers How we do it corporate networks.
How we make money We are moving towards a uni ed, cloud-based solution for our security We sell premium paid products for services.
Both endpoint i. e. access from businesses through partners that remote or wireless devices and network support SMBs, and our own website.
This Our uni ed endpoint and network security means we can meet increasingly complex solution means we can target larger rms, security demands, in a cost-eff ective way.
and increase our total addressable market.
20 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Company 2018 milestones A milestone year... Strong full-year financial and operating performance 1 1 Adjusted Billings Adjusted Revenue $846.7m $811.5m 2 2 8.6% 8.3% 1 Excluding Discontinued Business.
2 Excluding FX and Discontinued Business.
Good growth in desktop operational KPIs Average Products Per Customer APPC 1 Number of 1.40 desktop customers 6.0% 2 Average Revenue 12.19m Per Customer ARPC 3 7.2% $49.24 8.6% 1 APPC fide ned as the Consumer Direct Desktop 2 Desktop customers who have at least one 3 ARPC fide ned as the Consumer Direct Desktop simple average valid licences or subscriptions valid paid Consumer Direct Desktop subscription revenue for the financial period divided by the for the financial period presented divided by or licence at the end of the period.
simple average number of Customers during the simple average number of Customers the same period.
Avast annual report 2018 21... creating momentum in our business Strength in up-sell and cross-sell Launch of three new integrated Admission to the Main Market family safety products of the London Stock Exchange driven by Avasts sophisticated consumer monetisation platform and entry into the FTSE 250 with mobile carrier partners and 435m global user base.
435m global user base Expansion of the Groups Strong execution on our Development of Smart Home product portfolio localisation strategy initiative well advanced with successful launch under both with launch of first carrier solution Consumer desktop year-on-year Avast and AVG brands of Secure planned for around H1 2019. customer growth Browser, AntiTrack and Driver Updater, plus release of AVG Secure VPN.
Russia Japan 23% 56% Argentina Mexico 22% 17% New consumer desktop customers in 2018 823,000 English speaking & Western Europe 35% All other countries 65% LSE FTSE
