AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 08 Our Expanded Product Offerings A GLOBAL LEADER IN ENGINEERING & INDUSTRIAL SOFTWARE The enlarged Group has a comprehensive product portfolio offering an unmatched set of solutions, covering all aspects of the asset life cycle, from conceptual modelling and 3D design, to process simulation, optimisation and manufacturing operations management.
We generate revenue by selling software licences and from maintenance, support and services associated with the software that we sell.
Technology Customers Our broad product range serves customers in over a Our 16,000 customers rely on our service teams and dozen industries and markets, from submarines and oil rigs, highly specialised software all over the world every day.
to power stations and airports.
Our software Our core strengths within heritage AVEVA lie in providing software to support customers in the capital expenditure phase of the asset life cycle, from conception, schematics, detailed design and build through to asset decommissioning.
Construction & Conceptual design Basic engineering Detailed design commissioning SimSci AVEVA E3D ePLMS AVEVA NET AVEVA Engineering AVEVA ERM AVEVA Electrical AVEVA Instrumentation Creates value for... Investors Customers Adjusted profit Customer deployments Through the combination with Our software and solutions before tax Schneider Electric Software, create huge efficiencies for the Group generated our customers, which is why 100,000 considerable value for we are the global leader in 6.8% shareholders.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 09 Our people R&D investments Our 4,400 employees and extensive partner network Our annual R&D investment of around 100m means around the world support our customers with our highly our products are always ready to serve our customers skilled sales and support staff.
Our enlarged portfolio helps our customers to reduce downtime, increase safety and improve returns through efficiency optimisations, machine learning and by lowering operating costs.
Operations Avantis Wonderware Spiral Wonderware Wonderware Citect, Clear SCADA OASyS Avantis Ampla, Aquis SimSci Pre-combination AVEVA solutions Additional post-combination solutions Community Employees Charitable donations Increase in headcount Local communities are Following the combination, important to our workforce, and recognising the need to and this year we made create a new, inclusive and 10% 160% donations as well as provided diverse organisation, we are matched funding to a number redefining our culture and of successful personal values.
