AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 78 Other statutory information Results and dividends Directors and their interests Share capital The Group made a profit for the year The current Directors are shown, together Details of the issued share capital can be after taxation of 47.7 million 2017 with brief biographical details, on pages found in note 30 to the consolidated 38.4 million.
Resolutions will be submitted financial statements.
The rights attaching million 2017 432.8 million and to the Annual General Meeting for the to the Companys shares are set out in its comprised software licences, software re-election of all current Directors.
Ward served as a Director during the year, holding the position of Chief Financial Subject to any restrictions referred to in The Directors recommend the payment Officer until 19 February 2018. the next section, members may attend of a final dividend of 27.0 pence per any general meeting of the Company.
If The interests all of which are beneficial in approved at the forthcoming Annual the shares of the Company of Directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of General Meeting, the final dividend will be who held office at 31 March 2018 in ordinary shares in the Company other paid on 3 August 2018 to shareholders respect of transactions notifiable under than: certain restrictions which may from on the register at close of business on Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 time to time be imposed by laws and 6 July 2018. that have been disclosed to the Company regulations for example, insider trading are as follows: laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of Business review and the Financial Conduct Authority whereby At 31 March At 31 March future developments Directors and certain employees of the 2018 2017 A review of the Groups operations during ordinary ordinary Company require the approval of the shares shares the year and its plans for the future is Company to deal in the ordinary shares given in the Chairmans Statement, the and pursuant to the Articles of Philip Aiken 2,337 1,537 Chief Executives Strategic Review and Association where there is default in Craig Hayman the Finance Review.
supplying the Company with information James Kidd 20,367 17,468 concerning interests in the Companys Jennifer Allerton 12,000 6,000 The Key Performance Indicators used by shares.
There are no special control rights Chris Humphrey 4,000 3,000 AVEVA to measure its own performance in relation to the Companys shares.
Ron Mobed 3,000 at the Group level include total revenue, Emmanuel Babeau recurring revenue, adjusted profit before Voting rights Peter Herweck tax, adjusted diluted earnings per share Subject to any restrictions below, on a and headcount and are provided in full on show of hands every member who is No changes took place in the interests of page 35.
The figures for the year ended present in person or by proxy at a general Directors in the shares of the Company 31 March 2018 are set out on page 35, meeting has one vote on each resolution between 31 March 2018 and 14 June together with figures for the previous year, and, on a poll, every member who is 2018. and a discussion of the principal risks and present in person or by proxy has one uncertainties facing the Group is included vote on each resolution for every share Directors share options are disclosed in on pages 31 to 34. of which he she is the registered member.
the Remuneration Committee Report on A proxy will have one vote for and one pages 72 and 73.
Research & Development vote against a resolution on a show of The Group continues an active hands in certain circumstances specified No Director had a material interest in any programme of Research & Development in the Articles of Association.
The Notice significant contract, other than a service which covers the updating of, and of Annual General Meeting specifies contract or contract for services, with the extension to, the Groups range of deadlines for exercising rights.
Company or any of its subsidiaries at any products.
A resolution put to the vote of a general Intellectual property meeting is decided on a show of hands, Conflicts of interest The Group owns intellectual property unless before or on the declaration of the Throughout the year the Company has both in its software tools and the products result of the show of hands, a poll is operated effective procedures to deal with derived from them.
The Directors consider demanded by the Chairman of the potential or actual conflicts of interest.
such properties to be of significant value meeting.
The Articles of the Company During the year no conflict arose requiring to the business and have a comprehensive also allow members, in certain the Board to exercise its authority or programme to protect it.
circumstances, to demand that a discretion.
resolution is decided by a poll.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 79 There are no agreements between A member may vote personally or by Appointment of Directors holders of securities that are known to the proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of The Articles of Association limit the Company which may result in restrictions proxy must be delivered to the Company number of Directors to not less than two on the transfer of securities or on voting not less than 48 hours before the time and not more than ten save where rights, save as described below in relation appointed for holding the meeting or members decide otherwise.
Members to the Employee Benefit Trust.
adjourned meeting at which the person may appoint Directors by ordinary named in the appointment proposes to resolution and may remove any Director vote for this purpose, the Directors may Change of control subject to the giving of special notice specify that no account shall be taken of All of the Companys share-based plans and, if desired, replace such removed any part of a day that is not a working contain provisions relating to change of Director by ordinary resolution.
A corporation which is a member of control.
Outstanding awards and options Directors may be appointed by the Board the Company may authorise such normally vest and become exercisable on but are subject to election by members at persons as it thinks fit to act as its a change of control, subject to the the first Annual General Meeting after representatives at any general meeting of satisfaction of any relevant performance their appointment.
A Director may be the Company.
removed from office if requested by all other Directors.
No member shall be entitled to attend or There are no other significant agreements vote, either personally or by proxy, at a to which the Company is a party that take The Companys Articles of Association general meeting in respect of any share if effect, alter or terminate upon a change of require that at each AGM there shall retire any call or other sum presently payable to control of the Company following a from office and be subject to re-election the Company in respect of such share takeover bid.
by members any Director who shall have remains unpaid or in certain other been a Director at the preceding two circumstances specified in the Articles of There are no agreements between the Annual General Meetings and who was Association where there is default in Company and its Directors or employees not appointed or re-appointed then or supplying the Company with information providing for compensation for loss of subsequently.
However, in accordance concerning interests in the Companys office or employment that occurs with the UK Corporate Governance Code, shares.
the Company requires all Directors who held office at 31 March 2018 to stand for Dividends, distributions Articles of Association re-election.
and liquidation Any amendments to the Articles of Members can declare final dividends by Association of the Company may be passing an ordinary resolution but the made in accordance with the provisions of amount of the dividends cannot exceed the Companies Act by way of special the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Powers of the Directors Company justify such payment.
The The business of the Company is Board may, if authorised by an ordinary managed by the Directors, who may resolution of the members, offer any exercise all powers of the Company, member the right to elect to receive new subject to the Companys Articles of shares, which will be credited as fully paid, Association, relevant statutory law and to instead of their cash dividend.
Any any direction that may be given by the dividend which has not been claimed for Company in general meeting by special 12 years after it became due for payment resolution.
Subject to the Companies Act, will be forfeited and will then revert to the shares may be issued by Board Company.
Members may share in surplus resolution.
At the Companys last Annual assets on a liquidation.
General Meeting, powers were granted to the Directors subject to limits set out in If the Company is wound up, the liquidator the resolutions to issue and to buy back can, with the sanction of the members by its own shares: similar powers are special resolution and any other sanction proposed to be granted at the required by law, divide among the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
members all or any part of the assets of The buy-back authority was limited to the Company and he she can value any 10% of the Companys issued share assets and determine how the divisions capital.
No shares have been bought back shall be carried out as between the under this authority.
members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No members can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 80 Other statutory information continued The Company had been notified, in Substantial shareholdings Directors indemnity accordance with Disclosure and Interests in the ordinary share capital of The Company has granted an indemnity Transparency Rule 5, of the following the Company are set out in the table to its Directors against liability in respect interests in the ordinary share capital of below.
of proceedings brought by third parties, the Company: subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third As at As at party indemnity provision remains in 31 March 2018 31 May 2018 force as at the date of approving the Percentage Percentage Directors report.
Name of holder Number held % Number held % Schneider Electric SE 97,169,655 60.3% 97,169,655 60.3% Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Aberdeen Standard Investments 6,601,779 4.1% 7,401,814 4.6% The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of Listing Rules disclosures Disabled employees carbon dioxide equivalent from activities For the purpose of LR9.8.
4C R, the only The Group gives full consideration to for which the Group is responsible, applicable information required to be applications for employment from including the combustion of fuel, the disclosed in accordance with LR9.8.
4 R disabled persons where the candidates operation of any facility, and resulting can be found in the section below titled particular aptitudes and abilities are from the purchase of electricity, heat, Employee Benefit Trust.
The information consistent with adequately meeting the steam or cooling.
Details of our emissions concerned is in respect of shareholder requirements of the job.
Opportunities are are set out within the Corporate waiver of dividends and future dividends.
available to disabled employees for Responsibility section of the Strategic training, career development and Report and form part of the Directors Annual General Meeting promotion.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 11 July 2018 at Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk Where existing employees become Auditor House, 5 Appold Street, London, EC2A disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young 2HA.
The Notice of the Annual General continuing employment wherever LLP as auditor for the ensuing year will be Meeting is being sent to shareholders practicable in the same or an alternative put to the members at the Annual General along with this Annual Report, which position and to provide appropriate Meeting.
contains details of the resolutions training to achieve this aim as well as proposed.
reasonable adjustments to the workplace and other support mechanisms.
Employee Benefit Trust The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Employee involvement Trust 2008 was established in 2008 to The Group places considerable value on facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares the involvement of its employees and has to employees within the Group on continued to keep them informed of exercise of vested options under the matters affecting them as employees and various share option and deferred bonus on the various factors affecting the share plans of the Company.
The Trust performance of the Group.
This is holds a total of 14,758 ordinary shares in achieved through formal and informal AVEVA Group plc representing 0.01% meetings, employee newsletters, the 2017 10,857 shares representing Group intranet and presentations from 0.02% of the issued share capital at the senior management.
All employees are date of this report.
Under the terms of the entitled to receive an annual discretionary Trust deed governing the Trust, the award related to the overall profitability of trustees are required unless the the Group subject to the performance of Company directs otherwise to waive all the individual and the Group.
The Group dividends and abstain from voting in conducts employee-wide surveys from respect of ordinary shares in AVEVA time to time to gauge the success or Group plc held by the Trust except where otherwise of its policies and uses this beneficial ownership of any such ordinary information to improve matters as shares was passed to a beneficiary of the appropriate.
In the same way as other employees, the Executive Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 81 The Directors are responsible for keeping Statement of Directors Responsibility statement pursuant adequate accounting records which are responsibilities in relation to FCAs Disclosure and sufficient to disclose with reasonable to the financial statements Transparency Rule 4 DTR 4 accuracy at any time the financial position The Directors are responsible for Each Director of the Company whose of the Company and enable them to preparing the Annual Report and the names and functions appear on pages 44 ensure that the financial statements financial statements in accordance with and 45 confirms that solely for the comply with the Companies Act 2006 applicable law and regulations.
purpose of DTR 4 to the best of their and, as regards the Group financial knowledge: statements, Article 4 of the IAS The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements in this Regulation.
They are also responsible for consolidated financial statements for each document, prepared in accordance safeguarding the assets of the Company financial year in accordance with with the applicable UK law and and hence for taking reasonable steps for International Financial Reporting applicable accounting standards, give the prevention and detection of fraud and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the a true and fair view of the assets, other irregularities.
The Directors have liabilities, financial position and profit elected to prepare the parent company of the Company and the undertakings Disclosure of information financial statements in accordance with included in the consolidation taken as to auditor United Kingdom General Accepted a whole: and The Directors who were members of Accounting Practice United Kingdom the Strategic Report and the Directors the Board at the time of approving the Accounting Standards and applicable law Report include a fair review of the Directors Report are listed on pages 44 including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure development and performance of the and 45.
Each of these Directors Framework.
Under company law the business and the position of the confirms that: Directors must not approve the financial Company and the undertakings so far as he she is aware, there is no statements unless they are satisfied that included in the consolidation taken as relevant audit information as defined they give a true and fair view of the state a whole, together with a description of by Section 418 of the Companies Act of affairs of the Company and of the the principal risks and uncertainties 2006 of which the Companys auditor undertakings included in the consolidation that they face.
is unaware: and as a whole as at the end of the financial he she has taken all the steps he she year and the profit or loss of the On behalf of the Board ought to have taken as a Director in undertakings included in the consolidation order to make himself herself aware of as a whole, so far as concerns members any such relevant audit information of the Company, for the financial year.
In and to establish that the Companys preparing those Consolidated financial auditor is aware of that information.
statements, the Directors are required to: select and apply accounting policies in Craig Hayman Fair and balanced reporting accordance with IAS 8: Chief Executive Having taken advice from the Audit present information, including 14 June 2018 Committee, the Board considers the accounting policies, in a manner that Annual Report and Accounts, taken provides relevant, reliable, comparable as a whole, is fair, balanced and and understandable information: and understandable and that it provides the provide additional disclosures when information necessary for shareholders compliance with the specific to assess the Companys position requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to and performance, business model enable users to understand the impact James Kidd and strategy.
of particular transactions, other events Deputy Chief Executive & Chief Financial and conditions on the entitys financial Officer position and financial performance.
14 June 2018 In preparing the parent company financial This Directors Report has been approved statements, the Directors are required to: by the Board of Directors and is signed select suitable accounting policies and on its behalf by: then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been David Ward followed, subject to any material Deputy CFO & Company Secretary departures disclosed and explained in 14 June 2018 the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 82 STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Financial Statements 84 Independent Auditors Report 93 Consolidated income statement 94 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Consolidated balance sheet 96 C onsolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity 97 C onsolidated cash flow statement 98 N otes to the consolidated financial statements 129 Company balance sheet 130 Company statement of changes in shareholders equity 131 Notes to the Company financial statements 135 Statement of Group accounting policies 140 Unaudited pro forma combined income statement 141 Unaudited pro forma combined cash flow statement 142 Notes to the unaudited pro forma financial statements 145 Full list of addresses and subsidiaries ibc C ompany information and advisers Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 83
