AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 20 Technology Review AN UNMATCHED PORTFOLIO FOLLOWING THE COMBINATION In 2017, AVEVA celebrated 50 years of research and innovation together with customers and partners at the AVEVA World Summit in Cambridge, UK, where it all started.
For the last five decades, AVEVA has Marine and AVEVA Engineering.
This enabled customers to create a digital expands the reach of AVEVAs datarepresentation of the physical world with centric Dabacon platform, improving the engineering information.
With a design and construction processes of continuous commitment to 3D, our smart assets.
portfolio of products has expanded to enable customers to improve efficiency With the addition of advanced process across the assets complete lifecycle, from design and simulation capabilities through conceptual design and build into the aforementioned combination, AVEVA operations, and through to is uniquely situated to provide a seamless decommissioning.
Unified Engineering experience for its customers.
This will take the Digital Twin AVEVAs philosophy of having a digital concept to an expanded level of useful representation of every physical item on application by enabling our customers to the asset, has become ever more relevant gain better and immediate insight on how to its customers on their digitalisation a physical design change affects the journeys.
The data-centric approach has continuous manufacturing outcome.
enabled AVEVA to become a strategic partner on the customers Industry 4.0 Also expanded through our ongoing initiatives and Digital Transformation development is the asset visualisation programmes.
capability within AVEVA Engage and AVEVA NET, which underpins the In todays digitised world, our customers digitalisation trend.
The capability to are increasing the use of connected combine engineering information with assets and operational awareness so that as-built laser scans, managed and even more data can be gathered and visualised through AVEVA products, processed, with analytics and machine supports our customers strategies for learning applied, to achieve increased remote and unmanned operation.
This efficiency and productivity through becomes even more powerful and smarter maintenance and operational valuable for our customers when it is decisions, all whilst protecting the safety combined with the market-leading of personnel and the environment in new Monitoring and Control software and and expanded ways.
Our broader Asset Performance software from SES software portfolio as a result of the recent merger with SES makes AVEVA unmatched in this full asset and operations life cycles and well poised for another 50 years of innovation and high customer value.
AVEVAs 50 years of pioneering This life cycle starts with a new way of experience in Engineering designing and constructing assets.
In Information software helps us 2016, AVEVA started a complete redesign of its AVEVA Electrical and to be optimally placed to help AVEVA Instrumentation products that is our customers accelerate their seeing great take-up from our customers today.
A major driver was to enable a new journeys towards digitalisation.
level of user experience as well as Andrew McCloskey improved collaboration and connectivity Head of R&D with flagship products like AVEVA Everything3D AVEVA E3D, AVEVA Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 21 recent years, our Enterprise Resource and the associated asset and operational complementary intellectual property Management suite AVEVA ERM has information provided within.
This will soon applied towards Plant Design and taken a similar journey.
AVEVA ERM has be fully integrated to enable asset owners Operator Training that when combined, enjoyed a strong track record in the and operators to seamlessly combine will directly provide additional high Marine market, with continual investment design data from the EPC Engineering, customer value to the operations space.
in the product suite in fiscal year 2018.
Procurement and Construction phase In AI, we are investigating means to together with maintenance and real-time leverage the capabilities delivered by SES Both SES and heritage AVEVA operations information all in pursuit of in predictive, performance, prescriptive significantly advanced their respective the full life cycle Digital Twin and the and prognostic AI to determine the best Cloud offerings and overall SaaS enormous benefits unmanned operations means of providing customer value to our capability in fiscal year 2018.
We are Unified Engineering efforts, as well as will bring to customers in terms of safety, uptime and reduced cost.
The Statoil active in combining these respective further developing these capabilities example at the bottom of the page is an efforts to advance even faster to ensure throughout the customer value chain excellent case study.
our new Cloud offerings of AVEVA E3D, we serve.
AVEVA ERM, AVEVA LFM, AVEVA NET, The new AVEVA is also further diversified AVEVA ProCon and AVEVA ISM are on The merger with SES marks a new era for in the industries we serve.
While we the same robust, scalable and secure AVEVA and a new era for Global R&D continue to serve the Oil & Gas and platform as the existing SES Cloud within AVEVA.
AVEVA now has over Chemicals industry in a leadership role, offerings of Operator Training, Online 1,600 of the brightest engineers and our products are very adaptable and Information and Analytics, Manufacturing computer scientists within its global industry agnostic, allowing us to Execution Systems, Monitoring and development centres.
We are taking a additionally and significantly serve a Control Visualization, Predictive federated model approach to ensure we number of other markets, as discussed Maintenance, InStudio and more.
Our move quickly to emerging customer on pages 10 and 11.
This combines well customers will see amazing continued needs whilst relying on common and with our efforts to expand our role in the value in this area as we further our rigorous application of Lean-Agile based Marine sphere, which we have steadily investment and leverage the unique methodologies to ensure we reach high grown for almost 15 years for AVEVA.
In strengths and intellectual property that productivity with a continuous customer 2007 we brought our ship design each half of the enlarged AVEVA brings focus, built-in quality and security, and a solution, AVEVA Marine, to the same to Cloud development.
This will enable Integrated Engineering and Design IE&D us to build upon the many successes platform as our plant design products.
In In addition to Cloud, we continue to make delivered in fiscal year 2018 in a powerful addition to increasing productivity, it strong investment and deliver enhanced manner.
AVEVA customers and its provided our customers with more value for our customers in Augmented shareholders will see amazing outcomes flexibility and productivity in creating new and Virtual Reality AR VR and Artificial from these efforts.
asset types like Floating Production, Intelligence AI.
In AR VR, both SES and Storage and Offloading FPSO Units.
In heritage AVEVA developed 100m The combined AVEVA and Schneider Electric Software generates annual R&D Strategy in Action case study investments of around 100 million, and a partner network with more than 5,700 certified developers Statoil ASA is a Norwegian multinational estimated savings of around NOK 15 Oil & Gas company headquartered in billion 1.5 billion in savings over the Stavanger, Norway.
It is a fully integrated next five years.
petroleum company with operations in 1,000,000 36 countries.
They have chosen to maintain a digital representation of all their assets in 3D, using Over the last year heritage AVEVA Statoil is investing over NOK 1 billion AVEVA E3D.
This enables them to provide invested more than one million 100 million between now and 2020 project and operations teams with an engineering hours in R&D on digitising their assets.
They are accurate digital representation of their intending to operate 40 offshore assets assets, through the use of AVEVA Engage and installations from onshore, generating for Asset Visualisation and decision support.
