58 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Board biographies Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
2007, and at Teradata Corporation since 2010.
Mr. Baudis holds an MS in Information 1 John Schwarz Mr. Schwarz hold degrees from the Canadian Technology from the Prague School of Chairman of The Board universities of Manitoba, Toronto and Dalhousie.
John Schwarz has been a member of our Board 3 Maggie Chan Jones 2 Pavel Baudis of Directors since 2011 and the Chairman since Independent Non-Executive Director 2014.
He is currently the co-founder, Chairman Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive Offi cer of Visier Inc. Maggie Chan Jones is a widely recognised Pavel Baudis is one of our co-founders and a business analytics software rm.
Previously, industry thought leader in marketing and served as one of our Directors from the he served on the executive board of SAP AG technology.
Named one of the worlds most incorporation of AVAST Software a. s. in 2006 from 2008 to 2010, and as Chief Executive in uential CMOs by Forbes, Ms. Chan Jones until 2014.
In 1988, Mr. Baudis wrote the original Offi cer of Business Objects S. A. from 2005 broke new ground as the first woman to software program from which our current through its acquisition by SAP in 2008. be appointed Chief Marketing Offi cer at portfolio of security solutions has developed.
Mr. Schwarz has also served as the President the worlds largest enterprise application Since 1991, Mr. Baudis has played a leading and Chief Operating Offi cer of Symantec software provider SAP.
She specialised in role in the development of our business with Corporation from 2001 to 2005.
Mr. Schwarz brand and cloud transformation at Level 3 our predecessor entity, ALWIL Software previously worked 25 years at IBM Corporation, Communications now CenturyLink and partnership.
Prior to co-founding Avast, ultimately as the General Manager of IBMs Microsoft.
Ms. Chan Jones founded and Mr. Baudis was a graphics specialist at the Industry Solutions division.
Mr. Schwarz has currently is CEO of Tenshey, a leadership Czech Computer Research Institute VUMS.
served as a at Synopsys Corporation since Avast annual report 2018 59 development startup with a mission to a. s. in 2006 until 2014.
Prior to that, and a member of the Governing Council advance gender diversity through executive Mr. Kucera was responsible for the activities of CSFI, a not-for-pro t think tank based in coaching.
Ms. Chan Jones holds an executive of the predecessor entity, ALWIL Software London.
She has a first class honours degree MBA from Cornell University and a BS in partnership.
He also served as our CEO, from the University of Kent at Canterbury and Business Management from Binghamton directing day-to-day operations that included a PhD from University College, London.
She will join the Board in 2019. the transition to a free software distribution 11 Lorne Somerville model in 2002.
Dr. Kucera holds a Doctorate 4 Ulf Claesson of Natural Sciences in experimental physics Non-Executive Director from the Charles University, Prague.
Independent Non-Executive Director Lorne Somerville, Managing Partner, joined 8 Ulf Claesson joined the Board of Avast in CVC in 2008.
Mr. Somerville is Co-Head Philip Marshall October 2012.
Since 2009, Mr. Claesson of the Strategic Opportunities Fund.
He is Chief Financial Offi cer has been a Partner at BLR & Partners AG, based in London.
Prior to joining CVC, he a private equity and advisory rm.
From 2002 Philip Marshall has served as the Chief worked for UBS where he was Joint Global to 2006, he was Co-Founder and Chairman Financial Offi cer and Director of Avast since Head of Telecommunications and Head of Silverwire Group: on its acquisition by February 2018.
Prior to Avast, Mr. Marshall of the European Communications Group, Hewlett-Packard Company, he built and ran served as CFO for Exova Group PLC before and Swisscom AG as Head of Swisscom one of HPs product divisions.
A serial tech helping take the company back into private International.
Mr. Somerville serves on entrepreneur, several of his startups have hands.
Prior to this, Mr. Marshall served as the Boards of eTraveli AB and Sebia SA.
been acquired by HP, ESRI and Husqvarna.
CFO for Wood Mackenzie under private equity Mr. Somerville holds an MA in Computer Mr. Claesson is a board member of the ownership, and also for General Electric Sciences from the University of Cambridge Swiss Federal Commission for Technology GE for 17 years across multiple business and an MBA from IMD, Lausanne.
and Innovation, and teaches Technology units in both a CEO and CFO capacity.
12 Vincent Steckler Entrepreneurship at ETH, the Swiss Federal He has also served on the boards of several Institute of Technology.
companies, including his current supervisory Chief Executive Offi cer from Chalmers University of Technology.
board membership of Waberers International.
Mr. Steckler has served as Chief Executive Mr. Marshall holds a BA in Accounting Studies 5 Offi cer and Director of Avast since January Warren Finegold from the University of West London.
Through his leadership and business Senior Independent 9 strategies, Mr. Steckler grew billings 35X, Tamara Minick-Scokalo Non-Executive Director reaching $846M in 2018, and has developed Independent Non-Executive Director an executive leadership team that has Warren Finegold joined the Board of Avast Tamara Minick-Scokalo is an experienced consistently delivered industry leading in February 2015.
He was a member of the Non-Executive Director Board member.
Most pro ts to the bottom line.
Prior to joining Vodafone Group Executive Committee and recently, she was President, Growth Markets Avast, Mr. Steckler was the Senior Vice is a former Group Strategy and Business and a member of the Executive Committee at President of Worldwide Consumer Sales Development Director.
Previously, he was Pearson plc in London.
She also co-founded at Symantec Corporation, where he was in a Managing Director of UBS Investment high tech unicorn Trax Retail and was CEO, charge of worldwide multi-channel consumer Bank, where he held a number of senior then Chairman, of this category-leading, sales valued at $2.0 billion.
Prior to this, positions, most recently as Head of the image recognition tool for shelf management.
Mr. Steckler had 20 years of experience in Technology Team in Europe.
Mr. Finegold Previously, she served as President Chocolate software development, systems analysis and is an independent non-executive Director Europe leading change management engineering, and business development.
He holds a M. A. in Philosophy, following the integration of Kraft Cadbury Mr. Steckler holds two B. S. degrees from Politics and Economics from Oxford business.
Her deep experience in consumer the University of California, Irvine, one in University and a Masters degree in Business brands includes positions at Elizabeth Arden, Mathematics and the other in Information Administration from London Business School.
Proctor & Gamble, E & J Gallo Winery Europe and Computer Science.
6 Erwin Gunst and Coca Cola.
Ms. Minick Scokola holds 13 Ondrej Vlcek a BS in Chemical Engineering from Lehigh Independent Non-Executive Director University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
President, Consumer Erwin Gunst joined the Board of Avast in She will join the Board in 2019.
Ondrej Vlcek serves as President for the October 2012.
From 2008 to 2010, Mr. Gunst 10 Belinda Richards Consumer business leading the largest served as COO and a member of the Executive business at Avast, and is CEO-designate.
Board of SAP AG, where he was responsible Independent Non-Executive Director He was part of the executive team that for global operations, information technology, Belinda Richards joined the Avast Board in took the company public on the London human resources, and the management of June 2018.
Her background includes a 30- Stock Exchange in May 2018, and also led all SAP Labs worldwide.
Mr. Gunst started his year career in Finance, M&A, and strategy the successful integration of the consumer career in audit, finance and controlling.
He was development and implementation.
Previously, business after the acquisition of AVG in 2016.
SAPs Managing Director in various countries Ms. Richards served as a Senior Corporate He created dramatic growth through strategy and was its Regional President for EMEA before Finance Partner at Deloitte LLP where she and vision, and leading the technology joining the SAP Board.
Mr. Gunst holds a M. S. held the position of Global Head of Deloittes transformation of Avast into the leading degree in Commercial Engineering from the Merger Integration and Separation Advisory global AI driven provider of security solutions Free University Solvay in Brussels, Belgium.
Currently, Ms. Richards sits it is today.
Mr. Vlcek started at Avast in 1995 7 Eduard Kucera on the Boards of WM Morrison Supermarkets as a developer and has risen through the plc, Phoenix Group Holdings plc, The Monks organisation making a signi cant impact on Non-Executive Director Investment Trust PLC and Schroder Japan the companys results.
He holds an MS in Eduard Kucera, one of our co-founders, Growth Fund plc.
She is a member of FRCs Mathematics from Czech Technical University served as our Chairman of the Avast Board Advisory Group of Audit Committee Chairmen in Prague.
from the incorporation of AVAST Software
