92 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors report Directors report 1.
Corporate details The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 7 January 2010 as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 2006 as amended with the name Avast Limited and with the registered number 07118170.
On 3 May 2018, the Company re-registered as a public company under the name Avast plc.
Directors and directors interests In respect of the period between 9 May 2018 and the date of this report, the following persons were Directors of the Company: Name Role Appointment Date John Schwarz Non-Executive Director and Chairman 9 May 2018 Vincent Steckler Chief Executive Offi cer 9 May 2018 Philip Marshall Chief Financial Offi cer 9 May 2018 Ondrej Vlcek President, Consumer 9 May 2018 Warren Finegold Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 9 May 2018 Pavel Baudis Non-Executive Director 9 May 2018 Eduard Kucera Non-Executive Director 9 May 2018 Lorne Somerville Non-Executive Director 18 April 2018 Ulf Claesson Non-Executive Director 9 May 2018 Erwin Gunst Non-Executive Director 9 May 2018 Belinda Richards Non-Executive Director 8 June 2018 Tamara Minick-Scokalo Non-Executive Director 13 March 2019 Maggie Chan Jones Non-Executive Director 13 March 2019 During the period between 1 January 2018 and 9 May 2018, the Company was a dormant entity.
The following persons were Directors of the Company during this time: Name Appointment Date Lorne Somerville 18 April 2018 Phil Robertson resigned 18 April 2018 9 May 2018 Sebastian Ramin Kuenne resigned 18 April 2018 9 May 2018 Simon McManus resigned 7 January 2010 18 April 2018 The Directors have the bene t of a qualifying third-party indemnity from the Company the terms of which are in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, each of which was in force at the date of the IPO and remained in force at the date of this report.
The Company has not provided an indemnity to any person acting as a director of an associated undertaking.
In addition, the Company has in place appropriate directors and offi cers liability insurance.
This cover also extends to employees of the Group who serve on the boards of the Companys subsidiaries.
Related party transactions relating to the Directors are detailed in Note 35 of the financial statements.
Details of directors interests in shares, options and LTIPs are set out on page 88 and 89 of the Directors Remuneration report.
There have been two changes in directors interests since year-end: those performance based options of certain directors which vested in March 2019 see pages 87 and 88, and the performance based shares issued to the President of Consumer and the CFO according to 2019 policy see page 84.
Share capital The Directors propose to pay a final Below are the only signi cant agreements Share Capital Structure dividend of 8.6 cents per share in respect that would take eff ect, alter or terminate As at 31 December 2018, the entire of the period between 15 May 2018 and on change of control of the Company issued share capital of the Company 31 December 2018 13.6 cents per share following a takeover: comprised of 953,438,299 ordinary shares on an annualised basis.
Credit Agreement 40% of the Groups levered free cash ow Credit Agreement dated 30 September At the general meeting held by the as fide ned on page 164 on a pro-rated 2016, entered into between Avast Company on 10 October 2018 the basis from 15 May 2018 to 31 December Software B. V. Sybil Software LLC, following special resolutions were 2018, in accordance with the Companys Avast Software s. r. o. Avast Holding B. V. approved by the shareholders of dividend policy.
Subject to shareholder and Credit Suisse International.
the Company: approval, this will be paid in US dollars on 17 June 2019 to shareholders on the A takeover of the Company may trigger a reduction of the amount standing register on 24 May 2019.
There will be an a change of control under the Credit to the credit of the Companys share option for shareholders to elect to receive Agreement which is an event of default premium account by 138,000,000: and the dividend in pounds sterling and such thereunder and would permit Credit Suisse the cancellation of the non-voting an election should be made no later than International as administrative agent subscriber share with a nominal value 24 May 2019.
The foreign exchange rate under the Credit Agreement with the of GBP 0.10. at which dividends declared in US dollars consent or at the request of the Required will be converted into pounds sterling Lenders under Credit Agreement to On 6 November 2017, the High Court of will be calculated based on the average immediately accelerate full repayment Justice in England and Wales made an exchange rate over the five business of the outstanding debt.
order conrming the reduction of the share days prior to 5 June 2019, and announced premium account and the cancellation Google Distribution Agreement immediately thereafter.
of the subscriber share of the Company Promotion and Distribution Agreement under section 648 Companies Act 2006.
Political donations dated 1 July 2012, entered into between Signi cant Holdings Avast Software s. r. o. and Google The Group did not make any political Ireland Limited.
As at 31 December 2018, the following donations, or incur any political persons held interests in shares carrying expenditure, in the year-ended Under this agreement, Avast Software 3% or more in voting rights: 31 December 2018. s. r. o. agrees to bundle the Google % of total Chrome and Google Toolbar products 5.
Research & development Name voting rights with distributions of its consumer antivirus Avast places a heavy focus on products under the Avast and AVG brand PaBa Software s. r. o.
26.97 the continuous development and names and certain utility applications as Sybil Holding S. r. l. 22.69 improvement of technology, with 50% approved by Google from time to time.
of its employees working in research Pratincole investments 10.47 Google Ireland Limited in turn agrees to and development.
We believe this Limited pay Avast Software s. r. o. monthly fees in focus on R&D strongly contributes connection with off ering users the Google 2 Mr. Vincent Steckler 3.29 to the fact that the Groups products Chrome browser and Google Toolbar.
are consistently ranked among the A takeover of the Company may trigger highest-rated antivirus solutions by a change of control under the Google both users and editors on leading Distribution Agreement which would download websites, as well as in permit Google to immediately terminate popular media globally.
the contract upon written notice.
In addition, in the event of a takeover of the on R&D for the year ended 2018.
Company, the Board may, at is discretion, elect to accelerate unvested awards under the Companys long term incentive plan.
More details in relation to this are set out on page 82.
1 Adjusted for share based payments, depreciation and amortisation and exceptional items.
2 Of the 3.29% of share capital held by Mr. Steckler, 6,859,096 shares representing 0.72% of the Companys share capital and 18,829,050 shares representing 1.98% of the Companys share capital are held by Mr. Steckler in his capacity as trustee of revocable and irrevocable family trusts, respectively.
94 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors report Between 1 January 2019 and the On 10 May 2018, Company entered into a The Board may also refuse to register a date of this report, the Company has relationship agreement Sybil Relationship share where the instrument of transfer is: been noti ed under Disclosure and Agreement with Sybil Holdings S. r. l. in favour of more than four Transparency Rule 5 of the following Sybil, an entity owned by funds advised persons jointly: signi cant holdings of voting rights in by affi liates of CVC Capital Partners its shares: Advisory Company Luxembourg S. r. l. not left at the registered offi ce of the Pursuant to this agreement, Sybil is Company, or at such other place as the % of total entitled to appoint one natural person Board may from time to time determine, Name Date of Noti cation voting rights to be a non-executive director of the accompanied by the certi cate s of the Sybil 29 March 2019 12.67 Company for so long as Sybil and or shares to which the instrument relates Holdings certain of its affi liates hold in aggregate and such other evidence as the Directors S. r. l. 10% or more of the voting rights attaching may reasonably require to show the to the issued share capital of the Company.
right of the transferor to make the Relationship Agreements transfer: and The Company has entered into The Board con rms that throughout relationship agreements with its most the period: the instrument of transfer is in respect signi cant shareholders to help ensure of more than one class of share.
the Company has complied with the that the Company will be capable of independence provisions of the Founder In addition, pursuant to the Listing operating and making decisions Relationship Agreement and the Sybil Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, independently for the bene t of Relationship Agreement: Directors of the Company and persons shareholders as a whole.
discharging managerial responsibility as far as the Company is aware, each are required to obtain prior approval from On 10 May 2018, Company entered into of the Founders and Sybil and their the Company to deal in the companys a relationship agreement Founder respective associates have complied securities, and are prohibited from dealing Relationship Agreement with each with the agreements independence during close periods.
of Pavel Baudis and Eduard Kucera provisions: and and their respective investment vehicles, Voting Rights as far as the Company is aware, each of PaBa Software s. r. o. and Pratincole On a poll, votes may be given personally the Founders and Sybil has procured the Investments Ltd collectively, the or by proxy.
compliance of non-signing controlling Founders pursuant to which, amongst shareholders with the agreements other things, the Founders are jointly Subject to any rights or restrictions independence provisions.
entitled to appoint: i one natural person attached to any class or classes of shares to be a non-executive director of the and to any other provisions of the Articles Restriction on Transfer of Shares Company for so long as the Founders of Association: The Board may refuse to register any and or their associates hold in aggregate transfer of any share which is not a if a vote is taken on a show of hands, 10% or more but less than 20% of the fully-paid share provided that such every member or proxy present in voting rights attaching to the issued share discretion may not be exercised in a way person shall have one vote: and capital of the Company: and ii two natural which the Financial Conduct Authority persons to be non-executive directors if a vote is taken on a poll, every member or the London Stock Exchange regards for so long as the Founders and or their present in person or by proxy shall have as preventing dealings in the shares of associates hold 20% or more of the voting one vote for each share held by him.
the relevant class or classes from taking rights attaching to the issued share capital place on an open and proper basis.
Avast annual report 2018 95 All resolutions put to the members at ii for so long as the Founders hold in Under the Articles of Association, electronic general meetings will be voted aggregate 10% or more of the voting a Director is required to retire at an annual on by a poll.
All resolutions put to the rights attaching to the issued share general meeting if he or she was a Director members at a physical general meeting capital of the Company, one of the at each of the preceding two annual will be voted on a show of hands unless directors appointed by the Founders general meetings and was not appointed a poll is demanded: is permitted to attend as an observer or re-appointed by the Company in a at the Boards Nomination Committee, general meeting at, or since, either such by the Chairman of the meeting: or Audit and Risk Committee and meeting.
Notwithstanding this, and in by at least five members present in Remuneration Committee: compliance with the UK Corporate person or by proxy and having the Governance Code, each Director is pursuant to the Sybil Relationship right to vote on the resolution: or subject to election at the first AGM Agreement, for so long as Sybil and or following their appointment, and by any member or members present in CVC Affi liates hold in aggregate 10% re-election at each subsequent AGM.
person or by proxy and representing not or more of the voting rights attaching to less than one-tenth of the total voting the issued share capital of the Company: The Company may by ordinary resolution rights of all the Members having the remove any Director before the expiration i Sybil is entitled to appoint one natural right to vote on the resolution: or of his period of offi ce provided special person to be a Non-Executive Director notice has been given in accordance by a member or members present in of the Company: and with the UK Companies Acts.
person or by proxy holding shares in the ii the Director appointed by Sybil is Company conferring a right to vote on Articles of Association permitted to attend as an observer at the resolution being shares on which an The Articles of Association of the the Boards Nomination Committee, aggregate sum has been paid up equal Company were adopted by special Audit and Risk Committee and to not less than one-tenth of the total resolution on 9 May 2018.
sum paid up on all shares conferring Any amendment to the Articles of that right.
Appointment and Replacement Association of the Company may be of Directors As far as the Board is aware, there are made in accordance with the provisions There is no maximum number of Directors no agreements between shareholders of the Companies Act 2006, by way of who can serve on the Board, but the that may restrict transfer of securities special resolution.
number of Directors cannot be less or voting rights.
Power of the Companys Directors The below are the only special control The business of the Company is managed Directors may be appointed by ordinary rights attaching to any of the Companys by the Directors, who may exercise all the resolution of shareholders or by the issued share capital: powers of the Company subject to the Board.
No person other than a Director provisions of the Articles of Association, pursuant to the Founder retiring at a general meeting will, unless the Companies Act and to such directions Relationship Agreement: recommended by the Directors, be eligible as may be given by the Company in for appointment to the offi ce of Director i the Founders are jointly entitled general meeting by special resolution.
at any general meeting unless a member to appoint: a one natural person noti es the Company in advance in to be a Non-Executive Director accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company for so long as the of his or her intention to propose such Founders and or their associates person for appointment, and also notice hold in aggregate 10% or more in writing signed by that person of his but less than 20% of the voting willingness to be appointed.
rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company: and ii two natural persons to be Non-Executive Directors for so long as the Founders and or their associates hold 20% or more of the voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company: and 96 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors report This authority will expire at the end of the 8.
Disclosure of information AGM held on 23 May 2019.
The Company own shares to auditors did not allot any new shares following The Company is permitted pursuant to The Directors con rm that: its IPO, other than those shares allotted the terms of its Articles of Association pursuant to the Groups share option plan.
so far as the Directors are aware, there to purchase its own shares subject to is no relevant audit information of which shareholder approval.
Going concern the Companys auditor is unaware: and meeting on 9 May 2018, the Company As described on page 159, the Directors was given authority to make market the Directors have taken all the steps have reviewed the projected cash ow purchases within the meaning of section that they ought to have taken as and other relevant information and have 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of directors to make themselves aware a reasonable expectation that the Group up to 9,526,382 of its ordinary shares.
of any relevant audit information and has adequate resources to continue in This authority will expire at the end of the to establish that the Companys auditor operational existence for the foreseeable AGM held on 23 May 2019.
The Company is aware of that information.
For this reason, the Directors did not repurchase any of its shares during continue to adopt the going concern 14.
Statement of Directors financial year 2018. assumption in preparing the consolidated responsibilities in respect financial statements.
Authority to issue shares of the Annual Report and The Company is permitted pursuant to 11.
Financial Risk Management the Financial Statements the terms of its Articles of Association Details of financial risk management The Directors are responsible for to allot, grant options over, off er or and financial instruments are disclosed in preparing the annual report and the otherwise deal with or dispose of shares Note 31 of the Group financial statements.
financial statements in accordance in the Company to such persons at such with applicable law and regulations.
times and generally on such terms and 12.
Additional disclosures conditions as they may determine.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 The Strategic Report is a requirement requires the Directors to prepare financial of the UK Companies Act 2006 and At a general meeting on 9 May 2018, statements for each financial period that can be found on pages 1 to 56 of the Company was given authority to allot give a true and fair view of the financial this report.
shares in the Company and to grant rights position of the group and the parent to subscribe for or to convert any security The Company has chosen, in accordance company and the financial performance into shares in the Company: with section 414 C 11 of the Act, to include and cash ows of the Group for that the following matters in its Strategic Report up to an aggregate nominal amount period.
Under that law the Directors have that would otherwise be disclosed in this of 31,754,639.50 such amount to prepared the group financial statements Directors Report: be reduced by the nominal amount of in accordance with International Financial any shares in the Company or rights to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Section Page subscribe for or convert any security by the European Union and in accordance Likely future developments 24 into shares in the Company granted with applicable law, and have elected to under sub-paragraph ii below in Greenhouse gas emissions 54 prepare the parent company financial excess of such sum : and statements in accordance with United Post balance sheet events 155 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting comprising equity securities as fide ned Practice United Kingdom Accounting Information required by the Financial in section 560 1 of the United Kingdom Standards and applicable law, including Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules can Companies Act 2006 up to an Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102. be located as follows: aggregate nominal amount of 63,509,279 such amount to be In preparing these financial statements Listing Rule Section Page reduced by any allotments of any shares the Directors are required to: LR 9.8.
4R 4, Long Term 76 in the Company or grants of rights to select suitable accounting policies Incentive Schemes subscribe for or convert any security and then apply them consistently: into shares in the Company made under LR 9.8.
4R 10 Related Party 153 sub-paragraph i above in connection and 11 Contracts make judgments and estimates with an off er by way of a rights issue.
that are reasonable and prudent: LR 9.8.
4AR Independence 94 of Controlling present information, including Shareholders accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Avast annual report 2018 97 in respect of the group financial 15.
Responsibility statement of statements, state whether IFRSs as the Directors in respect of adopted by the European Union have the Annual Financial report been followed, subject to any material The directors con rm, to the best of departures disclosed and explained in the their knowledge, that: the financial statements: the Group financial statements, prepared provide additional disclosures in accordance with IFRS as adopted by when compliance with the speci c the European Union and in accordance requirements in IFRSs are insuffi cient to with applicable law, give a true and fair enable users to understand the impact view of the assets, liabilities, financial of particular transactions, other events position and pro t of the Company and and conditions on the groups financial the undertakings included in the position and financial performance: consolidation taken as a whole: and in respect of the parent company the Strategic Report and Directors financial statements, state whether Report includes a fair review of the applicable United Kingdom Accounting development and performance of Standards, including FRS 102, have the business and the position of the been followed, subject to any material company and the undertakings included departures disclosed and explained in the consolidation taken as a whole, in the financial statements: and together with a description of the prepare the financial statements on principal risks and uncertainties that the going concern basis unless it is they face.
inappropriate to presume that the The annual report and the financial company and or the group will statements, taken as a whole is fair, continue in business.
balanced and understandable and The Directors are responsible for keeping provides the information necessary adequate accounting records that are for shareholders to assess the Groups suffi cient to show and explain the position and performance, business Companys and Groups transactions and model and strategy.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any The Directors report on pages 92 to 97 time the financial position of the Company was approved by the Board on 9 April and the group and enable them to ensure 2019 and signed by order of the Board.
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with By Order of the Board: respect to the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Alan Rassaby also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and Company Secretary hence for taking reasonable steps for the 9 April 2019 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may diff er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
