AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Our Expanded Market Diversification INCREASED DIVERSIFICATION DRIVING THE DIGITALISATION OF INDUSTRY Our software is supplied both to companies that operate market conditions impact AVEVAs revenue in a given in a number of end market sectors, such as OOs and year.
For the end market sectors that we serve, the broad EPCs, as well as companies in specific end markets, market dynamics are outlined below.
In addition to the such as shipbuilding and city infrastructure.
While overall primary market verticals described below, we also have a demand for our products is growing as industry small presence in Paper & Pulp, Water and Utilities, which continues the trend of moving towards digitalisation, end together comprise 10% of the enlarged Group revenue.
Upstream Midstream Downstream Food & Beverage Oil & Gas Oil & Gas Oil & Gas and Pharma 1520% 510% 1520% 1015% of revenue of revenue of revenue of revenue In line with market forecasts, Our activity in the midstream The downstream Oil & Gas Our technology for this global upstream industry Oil & Gas market is primarily market, having rationalised market has traditionally served capital expenditure began to around monitoring and and established a baseline for large global companies recover in calendar year 2017, control systems for major capital expenditure between operating multiple highgrowing at a low single-digit pipeline operators.
Over 2015 2014 and 2016, also recently volume production facilities rate.
This followed a fall of and 2016, many of our started to resume capital and traditionally using over 40% between 2014 and existing customers undertook expenditure growth, primarily technology for automation calendar 2016 Sources: large upgrades of existing around upgrading existing and operations management.
Barclays, Bank of America monitoring and control assets and improving This segment has been Merrill Lynch.
This market systems, which drove project operational efficiency.
The impacted by a significant shift stabilisation and the volume in this segment over primary driver for demand for in consumer consumption improving oil price trend had that period.
Much of this our technology was based on patterns.
This in turn a positive effect on the upgrade activity completed in digitalisation initiatives, translated to re-evaluations of workloads of our EPC early 2017, resulting in a targeted at improving traditional operational customers, who had been reduction in project volume.
operational visibility across technology investments, squeezed during the However, this market now geographically distributed further motivated by the downturn by a sharp represents a significant assets, enabling predictive emergence of digitalisation as reduction in design-intensive installed base opportunity for performance and reliability a business imperative.
We upstream and offshore us to sell advanced management of assets, have seen a reduction in the projects, which were most applications for asset integrity enabling better planning and volume of the monitoring and heavily impacted by the lower and risk management, scheduling, and enabling control and operations oil prices.
pipeline operations workforce productivity management portfolio areas management and operator through tools such as and an increase in demand for This recovery assisted training systems.
augmented reality based solutions related to operational demand for our design assistance, virtual reality based performance visibility and products, because EPC simulation and advanced asset performance customers tend to favour a decision support systems.
management, which is where rental model for software, digitalisation investments are meaning that their spend with In the process design and primarily being targeted.
AVEVA adjusts to market simulation offering we saw a demand relatively quickly.
similar increase in momentum with EPC customers as with our plant design technology, as capital project activity started to resume.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 11 Power Marine Buildings & Mining Infrastructure 1015% 1015% 510% 5% of revenue of revenue of revenue of revenue Trends in Power are positive As expected, the cyclical Our offerings to our customers Conditions in the Mining sector as the worlds emerging Marine market showed some enable better digitalisation of were broadly positive in the last economies invest in their signs of improvement during their businesses through our financial year, supported by power generation calendar year 2017, with new monitoring and control stable to improving commodity requirements and the ageing ship orders increasing, albeit portfolio.
With a broad-based prices, following a period of infrastructure of the from a very low base versus recovery in the global industrial reduced capital spend.
developed world is historical standards in the manufacturing market, our Digitalisation initiatives have maintained or replaced.
There previous year Source: business in this market showed ramped up in this segment, is also an ongoing trend Clarksons Research.
with customers managing towards digitalisation as demonstrated good sales geographically dispersed operators in the sector make execution, achieving a number With the development of smart and highly complex assets.
greater use of both design of order wins, particularly in city infrastructure projects in The focus on value chain and information management Asia.
These were achieved several locations around the optimisation has driven tools, as they seek to improve through market share gains world, we have started to see demand for our offerings asset efficiency.
We saw and also finding pockets of increased demand for our around operations planning continued growth in the growth, for example around technology to enable the and execution management, Power market which included cruise ships.
visualisation and monitoring of asset performance the benefit of fees from an smart facilities and assets.
In management and monitoring enlarged customer base addition, specific solutions and control.
following wins in the previous related to sustainability goals year.
Our offerings related to of smart infrastructure, such as asset performance energy monitoring and management based on management, have started to predictive analytics continued gain traction in this segment to see strong demand and and also in data centres.
Pre-combination markets Additional post-combination markets
