Strategic report Governance statement Financials Acquisitions The Group has grown and expects to continue to grow by making acquisitions as well as organically.
The diversion of management attention Risk description Mitigation to unexpected difficulties encountered The financial benefits of acquisitions Full financial and other due diligence with acquisitions could adversely affect maynot be realised as quickly and as is conducted as far as may reasonably the Groups business.
be achievable in the context of each acquisition and a detailed business Post-acquisition performance of the Potential impact case, with forward looking projections, acquired business may not meet the is submitted to the Board in respect Failure to realise the anticipated financial performance expected at the of each acquisition.
Integration risk is benefits of an acquisition, or delay or time the acquisition terms were agreed considered at an early stage as part of the higher than expected costs in so doing, and could fail to justify the price paid, review of acquisition opportunities and could adversely affect the strategic which could adversely affect the Groups detailed integration planning takes place development, business, financial future results and financial position.
before completion of the acquisition.
condition, results of operations or prospects of the Group.
We believe we have a good track record in, and experience of, integrating acquisitions, both large and small.
Viability statement In their assessment the Directors The Directors considered whether considered strategic risks faced by the in their view there were any scenarios The Directors have assessed the Group under a number of strategic that were plausible, the potential Companys viability over the three-year themes together with the probability impact of which, taking account period to March 2021.
The Directors of occurrence and likely impact of of their assessment of the above elected to make their assessment the risks materialising, as well as the controls and mitigating actions, on a three-year basis as that is the adequacy of the control and mitigation was such as to threaten the ability of period of the Groups budget and measures in place to counter them.
the Group tomeet its liabilities over forecasting review process, which Separately, the detailed and bottom-up the three-year period.
the Directors believe gives the risk management process continued appropriate level of visibility for them The Directors have a reasonable throughout the year and this required, to make their assessment.
expectation that the Company and at business unit and sector level, that the Group will be able to continue in During the year to 31 March 2018, the business risks were identified and that operation and meet all their liabilities Directors carried out a robust the probability and impact of the risks as they fall due up to March 2021. assessment of the principal strategic, materialising were considered together financial and operational risks, with risk mitigation measures and the including the principal risks listed on extent to which monitoring of the pages 71 to 79 to the Groups solvency effectiveness ofthe mitigation and liquidity that were identified within measures was in place.
Risk registers, the Groups risk management located at business unit level, are framework in the context of the subject to robust review and challenge controls and mitigating matters by the Group Risk and Insurance described on pages 68 to 70.
Manager and the Group Financial Controller.
The results of these reviews were presented to the Audit and Risk Committee during the course of the year to 31 March 2018.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Governance statement: Ive been able to Overview Chairmans introduction 82 explore different uses Leadership Governance framework 84 Board Directors 86 of Virtual Reality VR Executive Committee 88 Effectiveness: Report of the Nominations and the capabilities Committee 92 Accountability : Report of the Audit and Risk we could integrate Committee 94 Remuneration : Report of the Remuneration into our products Committee 98 Relations with Shareholders 131 Additional statutory information 133 to make significant Directors responsibility statement 138 cost savings.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 80 Strategic report Strategic report Governance statement Governance statement Financials Financials Matthew Project management graduate Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 81
