Business model and strategy Delivering through a consistent strategy Babcock is the UKs leading engineering services company.
Our objective is to grow from our position both in the UK and overseas, delivering sustainable value for our stakeholders.
Key differentiators Underpinning everything we do is our breadth and depth of knowledge, the experience of our people, our successful long-term partnerships and the unique infrastructure we own and operate.
Technical skills Longterm relationships Decades of sector-specific expertise provide us with Babcock is used to working in long-term partnerships a sound understanding of risk and resilience and with governments and blue chip companies, often enable us to forecast demand to deliver availability embedded with our customers.
We align our interests effectively.
We are equipment-agnostic and have with theirs so that we share risks and rewards through technology agreements with all the main equipment pain share gain share agreements.
We seek to drive innovation for record includes unique reference cases which prove our customers, using our expertise to identify our ability to deliver.
Unique infrastructure Longterm contracts We have a deep understanding of how to manage Our 18 billion order book and 13 billion pipeline both our and our customers highly regulated critical of long-term contracts give excellent visibility of future infrastructure assets, including naval, aviation and revenues.
We are aligned with our customers and vehicle fleets, unique dockyards, nuclear licensed incentivised to perform, with strong management of sites, naval, aviation and army bases, customer-owned balancing risk and reward.
We have an excellent track aircraft fleets and technical training centres.
record of delivery with a rebid win rate of over 90%.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 14 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Trusted to deliver We believe our business model and strategy, built around our reputation for being trusted to deliver, set us apart.
They have provided a strong foundation for our success and are vital to ensuring we continue to deliver value.
Babcock thrives in complex environments which require specialist engineering expertise.
We continue to deliver value on targeted contracts, selected to fit our strategy and match our capabilities.
We look to combine technical and engineering capabilities to provide a single integrated solution.
Growth delivered through Creating value for a consistent strategy all stakeholders Leading market positions We aim to serve the interests and meet the needs of all our stakeholders: We expect our businesses to be, or have plans to be, one of the top employees, customers and shareholders three in their market sectors, with the aim of ensuring we achieve and have regard for suppliers and the economies of scale and create strong competitive positions.
environment, by conducting business Public bodies and blue chip customers responsibly.
Astrong Babcock culture integrates our values and beliefs into Our customers tend to be government departments, public bodies, highly regulated industries or blue chip companies that own large, every aspect of our business, ensuring value creation.
The foundations on which we build strategically important assets or infrastructure.
We encourage our customers to partner with us and to build long-term relationships.
value for our stakeholdersare the six pillars of our consistent strategy.
Customer focused long-term relationships We seek to create value for our employees We place great emphasis on doing the right thing for our customers.
by: creating a safe working environment: We listen and seek to be flexible and responsive to their needs.
We work providing continuous professional collaboratively, often through long-term partnerships or alliances, to development: providing equal opportunities ensure we understand their priorities and align our objectives.
for all: andcreating a rewarding place to work.
Our skilled workforce of over 35,000 Integrated engineering and technical expertise enables us to meet the operational We are able to integrate a broad range of engineering and technical requirements of our customers.
expertise to provide services that are complex, critical and bespoke.
We seek to create value for our customers We manage the interface between all these activities to provide full operational outcomes and help to take risk from our customers.
by:working through longterm collaborative relationships: reducing the cost of Balancing risk and reward deliveringkey services: increasing asset We aim to operate through long-term, integrated output-based availability or providing life-extensions: contracts.
We believe this approach creates a commercial framework andproviding technical knowledge and which fairly balances risk and reward between us and our customers.
skills to manage complex transformation Target cost contracts incentivise us to remove cost via a pain-share programmes.
relationships with our customers help create strong cash flows that can beused Excellent health and safety record to generate growth and returns to deliver We never compromise on health and safety and expect all our sectors shareholder value.
to deliver a market-leading safety performance.
We believe all our We seek to create value for our shareholders employees and others working on or visiting our operations should by investing in and growing the business, be able to return home safe and well at the end of the working day.
growing the value of their investment over time, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 15
