Operational review Technology in action: Cavendish Nuclear Technology minimising risk Cavendish Nuclear and its key supplier have been awarded a 10-year contract to supply Sellafield Ltd with Glove Box Systems to process nuclear material.
As part of this contract Cavendish Nuclear will be applying the innovative use of virtual reality VR simulation to fide-risk and, where possible, accelerate delivery.
The design of the glove boxes will be completed using the latest 3D tools.
Once the 3D design of each glove box is complete, the models will be transferred to a VR interface.
Users will wear VR headsets and gloves, which will allow them to test out the ergonomics and identify any modifications at the earliest possible stage.
The VR suite will comprise a single skeleton glove box incorporating moveable rings and real gloves to accurately simulate operator constraints.
A key advantage of this arrangement is that it can be located within the design office, whilst providing the ability to simulate any glove box in the entire plant.
This approach helps mitigate the risk of requirements to change the design identified after assembly, which can impact delivery of the project and schedule and cost.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 54 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Ergonomics Mitigating risk Simulated glove box Applying VR to environments will delivery of nuclear enable the customer to decommissioning test the ergonomics.
solutions fide-risks and accelerates delivery.
Smart simulation Problem solving Virtual reality Use of VR will simulation will play enable any required a key role in the modifications to be Sellafield Glove Box identified early.
Trusted to deliver This will be delivered Glove box by drawing on our manufactured by proven VR capability Jordan Manufacturing from within the wider Limited Babcock Group.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Operational review Cavendish Nuclear Strategy in action Delivering complex nuclear engineering on major nuclear decommissioning programmes and projects across the UK, as well as nuclear engineering services in training and operation support, new build programme management, design and installation and critical safety training to both public and private customers in the UK and, increasingly, internationally.
2018 Underlying performance highlights 2018 2017 m m Revenue % 13% of Group Revenue total including jvs 703 629 joint ventures 491 435 Operating margin 9.8% Operating profit total including jvs 69 61 joint ventures 38 29 Revenue growth 12% Operating margin total including jvs 9.8% 9.8% joint ventures 7.7% 6.7% Key highlights Won 10-year Sellafield Significant milestone Reached formal agreement Glovebox framework at Wylfa: reactors are on terms of hand back contract 50% defuelled of Magnox contract in August 2019 Bidding 1.6bn of new Delivered a successful work including Hinkley Point outage at EDF Dungeness Pile Fuel Cladding Silo C Auxiliary pipework & PPP site both on time and project all six doors at Sellafield on budget installed, six penetrations cut, concrete monoliths removed, doors sealed and handed over to Sellafield Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 56 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Market overview Pile fuel cladding silo The civil nuclear market in the UK continues to progress.
The global A Cavendish Nuclear joint venture To remove the waste, a crane energy market is still impacted by is behind the opening up of the will extend through the cut holes, relatively low prices, which has resulted worlds oldest radioactive waste a grabber will then drop down to in pressure on decision making for new store for the first time.
Experts at scoop the waste up, lifting it out of the major programmes both in the UK and the Sellafield nuclear site have cut container and back through the hole.
internationally as the wider industry the first hole in the Pile Fuel Cladding seeks further investment.
We have It will then be dropped into a Silo PFCS, a locked vault which was specially-designed metal box, for safe seen an increase in Tier 2 and 3 never designed to be opened.
decommissioning projects issued for and secure storage in a modern facility.
It follows years of collaboration, tender, despite budgetary pressures, Steven Carroll, Head of the PFCS, said: and there is still opportunity within the designs, innovation and I am incredibly proud of the work that painstaking rehearsals by Bechtel UK new build programmes.
We are our teams have achieved together, in currently bidding in excess of 1.6 billion Cavendish Nuclear Solutions for preparing the silo for successful waste Sellafield Ltd and the Nuclear of new Tier 2 and Tier 3 work across retrievals.
The level of challenge new build, decommissioning and Decommissioning Authority.
involved with this facility is international markets.
Its the first of six holes that will allow unparalleled, considering the age In the UK, the Nuclear Decommissioning radioactive waste to be removed from of the building, the lack of historical Authority NDA is currently determining one of the sites most hazardous information about the waste itself, the structure of Magnox decommissioning buildings.
Preparations have been the atmosphere inside the silo and its work following the end of the initial under way for a number of years, position on one of the most congested contract in August 2019, which is which involved practising the cutting sites anywhere in the world.
Despite expected to provide further potential operation at a full-scale replica test rig this, the teams have carried out some opportunities for the sector.
The sector in Rosyth, Scotland.
world class engineering in difficult is also investigating entering into environments to get us closer to The six holes are cut at the top of new markets where it can deploy getting the waste out and into safer each of the facilitys six compartments, its programme management, storage earlier than planned.
allowing access to the waste within decommissioning and hazard the silos walls for the first time in 65 This project harnesses the engineering management expertise in other years.
Each section is cut away in a expertise and ingenuity of two highly regulated industries.
single piece and withdrawn into a companies with global reach to containment bag.
A containment provide Sellafield with the tools it Strategy door is then lowered over the needs to deliver hazard reduction Our strategy is to accelerate growth aperture and closed.
on a truly epic scale, said Paul Smith, by developing the current Tier 2 and 3 managing director of UK projects at The giant steel doors will provide a capabilities in the UK, underpinned by Cavendish Nuclear.
safe barrier between the waste inside our order book and growing pipeline of the silo and the outside world.
We will also continue to remove the material will start in 2019. develop our products and the expertise of our workforce to maintain our position as the UKs leading nuclear engineering services business.
We aim to secure and deliver projects at Hinkley Point C HPC new build facility while developing a position in both Wylfa and Moorside.
Following the NDAs decision to terminate the current Magnox contract in August 2019, the sector aims to secure further opportunities to support the decommissioning programme.
Across the sector our focus is on improving performance and efficiency by safely accelerating programmes where possible and by implementing and applying Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Operational review: Cavendish Nuclear Strategy in action, continued technical innovation across our sites and JVs have increased volume at wide selection of technical contract wins services while managing and mitigating both Magnox and Dounreay.
As including full life-cycle decommissioning risk.
We continue to build on current previously flagged we expect the solutions for Magnox sites, major design capabilities and infrastructure through step down in Magnox revenue to be contracts, complex module fabrication collaboration with our Marine sector around 60 million in 2018 19 as and waste package flasks for Sellafield, colleagues to develop highly complex decommissioning progresses.
additional maintenance projects for the nuclear module fabrication capability for EDF AGR fleet and new packages of work Strong growth in underlying organic both the decommissioning and new build from Hinkley Point C. operating profit of 12.1% delivered profit markets.
We continue to drive new of 68.8 million 2017: 61.4 million.
Decommissioning JVs technology and innovation to embed Project margins were softer on prudent simpler processes and increase efficiency.
During the year we reached successful profit recognition during the ramp up Above all, we continue to drive for the agreements with the NDA for the stages of newly awarded contracts with highest health, safety and environmental termination of the Magnox contract, some additional IT costs following the performance across our operations.
our joint venture with Fluor.
The implementation of new systems.
The productive negotiations resulted in Decommissioning JVs saw margin increase Financial review commercial arrangements for the period and we expect the Magnox margin to Cavendish Nuclear saw strong growth until contract completion in August 2019. remain at current levels until contract during the year in underlying organic Performance at the 12 sites continues completion in August 2019. revenue and underlying operating profit aligned with our commitments and as both the Projects business and the schedule, with milestones achieved in line Operational review Decommissioning JVs performed well.
with expectations and a continued focus Throughout the year the sectors Underlying organic revenue increased on delivering cost effective solutions to long-term contracts continued to perform 11.7% to 702.7 million 2017: 629.3 the decommissioning programme.
The well with the Decommissioning JVs million.
New build activity has increased NDA is undergoing a review and the delivering on schedule.
We have seen a at Hinkley Point C and the Decommissioning intended operational arrangements for Dungeness B outage Cavendish Nuclear works with EDF again to turn around the last one as The closeness of the working Energy to support all eight of its quickly as possible, working  between EDF Energy and nuclear generating plants in the UK.
Cavendish Nuclear isnt unique to But Dungeness B alone accounts for Dungeness B Cavendish Nuclear To the untrained eye, its hard to tell 25% of the companys business.
supports the operation of all seven the difference between those working AGRs and one PWR in its generating Its day 47 of the statutory outage.
The for EDF Energy and those working for fleet.
But there is one aspect that twin reactors at the heart of the Cavendish Nuclear.
They all wear the definitely is.
stations output are shut down for their same coveralls, get the same toolbox scheduled service.
talk information, and fill out the same Dungeness B was the first production safety reporting forms.
model of the Advanced Gas-Cooled On one, three of the four huge gas Reactor to be built in the UK.
circulators that drive the heat from the Theres a good reason for that, as Construction started in 1965 but it reactors core have been removed from Gavin Schlechter, outage manager wasnt completed until 1983 a full line, maintained and re-instated.
Any and year-round operations manager 13 years late.
Later models learned moment now, EDF Energy will remove for the EDF Energy business at from the difficulties experienced during the fourth unit and the pressure will be Cavendish Nuclear, explains: construction and changed their design, on the Cavendish Nuclear team The more we can do to make it which means some features are unique feel like one team, the better it to Dungeness B. becomes for efficiency and morale.
Its the only AGR station where Theres less stress.
It makes for a Cavendish Nuclear, as heir to the more open reporting culture, too.
original equipment manufacturer, has We get very good feedback from the added responsibility of looking after the customer about our willingness the four huge gas circulators attached to report things that some others may to each of the twin reactors.
feel less inclined to flag up, especially the very minor events.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 58 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Magnox beyond August 2019 are still venture with Bechtel, we have successfully preparations for site mobilisation for the new build work on the Balance of Nuclear to be determined, but we believe our installed all of the Magnificent Six 12.4 continued strong operational performance tonne doors playing a key role in reducing Island mechanical installation for Hinkley Point C. The sector also continues to and technical expertise combined with hazard at the site, cut six penetrations, experience on the Magnox sites put us removed the concrete monoliths, sealed provide a range of engineering and design support for Horizon Nuclear Powers Wylfa in a good position to benefit from any the doors and handed over to Sellafield new opportunities.
Additionally we are under budget and ahead of schedule.
Newydd project, including support to Menter Newydd for the design of the working with the NDA, under the Nuclear The strong performance in the design Sector Deal, to accelerate up to two frameworks at Sellafield continues to be radiation waste facilities, under contract to Menter Newydds partner, JGC.
demonstrator projects for reactor rewarded with additional new scope.
In December, we were awarded the Sustainability Key operational deliverables include Sellafield Glovebox contract to design Long-term business sustainability is a completing all remaining work at and fabricate technically complex core focus at Cavendish Nuclear and we Bradwell to deliver site closure, continued engineering solutions for the treatment, continue to focus on three key themes defuelling of Wylfa, commencement of handling and management of nuclear of safety, people and performance.
We the construction phase for the SGHWR materials.
The contract, valued at around actively recruit talented young individuals reactor core removal, construction of 100 million, is currently being mobilised.
into our graduate and apprenticeship interim storage at Chapel Cross, Hinkley Following the success of synergies with schemes and this year employed around and Harwell, and progression of removal the Marine sector in delivering the PFCS 55 young engineers, supported by a of the two remaining waste streams in project, the expertise and unique three-year development programme the Berkeley vaults.
Magnox will also equipment in technical fabrication at to maximise their experience and be focused on delivering the required Rosyth will again be employed for this expertise across the sector.
Over 20% of throughput improvements in the 10-year framework contract.
the current workforce joined as a graduate commissioned waste processing plants As we leverage our position as a lifetime or apprentice at some point during their at Berkeley, Trawsfynedd, Hunterston, partner with EDF, we continue to provide technical career at Cavendish Nuclear, Dungeness and Harwell.
Asbestos for their generating fleet, providing critical including senior and management roles.
remediation and removal, as well as reactor core analysis allowing the plant We are also implementing new planning the management of deteriorating asset life extension of the AGR reactors, training for leaders and managers and will conditions, remain priorities across maintenance and outage support.
During roll out the delivery for 100 employees the sites.
the year we delivered a planned outage over the next year.
The joint venture contract at Dounreay, at Dungeness on time and on budget.
Europes most complex decommissioning Outlook Internationally there has been significant project, is delivering to the revised scope management focus on developing The outlook for next year looks strong with associated with the Exotics Waste Removal the Japanese business, with Cavendish underlying revenue growth expected in Project as part of the UK Governments Nuclear established as the leading UK the Nuclear Services business from recent strategy.
The site operations team has decommissioning expert with both the new contract wins, the development of also removed fuel elements from the Fast Japanese Government and industry.
new products and services for our EDF Reactor, the first time that this has been business and an expectation of new As a result, we successfully completed completed in several decades, opportunities coming from the UK Atomic a contract for Japan Atomic Power representing a significant milestone for Weapons Establishment.
Company and are working on bidding the contract.
The restructuring is on track, preparations for the upcoming Tokai This growth will offset revenue step-downs including a reduction in headcount in Bunker project.
Fukushima work has also from the Magnox and Dounreay joint order that costs and skillsets match the been delivered in support of Hitachi GE ventures as decommissioning works requirements of the future Nuclear Energy HGNE with the potential progress in line with the agreed decommissioning programme.
for expanded scope and follow on work programme.
The New Build and Japan packages.
Cavendish Nuclear is currently businesses will continue to grow as Projects the only non-Japanese company to projects start to mobilise, and the sector Our Projects performance remains participate in HGNEs seven-strong is expected to benefit from securing strong and we have achieved multiple Fukushima Fuel Debris Removal team.
projects, inward investment and a critical milestones either on or ahead of continuing focus on efficiency.
At Sellafield, At the beginning of the year we we continue to deliver exemplary transitioned from Early Works Involvement 2018 19 underlying revenue is expected performance preparing the ageing to an Early Works Contract, covering to be flat with stable margins.
On the Pile supply chain engagement for long lead Fuel Cladding Silo PFCS project, a joint time materials, design work and Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 59
