Operational review Technology in action: Aviation Innovation We recruit, develop and value people with a passion for technology and innovation.
Thats why we got our graduates directly involved in the Lua project.
Technology at full flight Technology underpins everything we do at Babcock, but its our proven ability to innovate, implement and integrate our technology solutions for our customers that sets us apart.
Our international footprint in technology is growing too.
We collaborated with leading Spanish technology organisation, Indra, to develop and create an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV concept called Lua.
The pioneering concept behind using the drone is in its ability to identify and combat outbreaks of forest fire.
Lua is pioneering in several ways.
It is equipped with three hours of flight autonomy and, through the use of predictive modelling of changing meteorological conditions, we are able to use these UAVs to help decide which incident locations to focus on and how best to optimise the number of Design helicopters available.
The Lua is designed Through our innovative technology with a maximum take-off weight of 25kg collaboration Lua supports the safetycritical work of our firefighting teams and and an endurance airspeed of 100 kph.
also demonstrates a prototype that can be rolled out to other areas of the world.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 46 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Inspiring future engineers Supporting our STEM agenda, we are also working with Spanish universities to ensure we have a steady flow of young engineers coming through.
Life saving Since the start of the 2017 firefighting season, Babcock has supported the extinction of 613 fires in Spain alone, with more than 17,000 flight hours and 72,500 water drops from our aircraft.
Surveillance The Luas capabilities include on-shore emergency surveillance, day and night time operations and vehicle and people detection.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Operational review Aviation Strategy in action We have four strategic priorities.
In UK Military we aim to broaden our customer base into naval aviation and Joint Helicopter Command.
In European Military we are delivering our first major French contract and have good prospects for delivering training in other countries.
In Aerial Emergency Services we are developing excellent new capabilities, and in Aerial Fire Fighting we are building new approaches for this vital service.
2018 Underlying performance highlights 2018 2017 m m Revenue % 19% of Group Revenue total including jvs 1,022 874 joint ventures 101 81 Operating margin 14.1% Operating profit total including jvs 144 146 joint ventures 41 39 Revenue growth 17% Operating margin total including jvs 14.1% 16.6% joint ventures 40.8% 47.7% Key highlights Awarded HADES contract to Renewed a major firefighting Opened a new school for provide technical support contract with the Italian Ascents UK Military Flying services at 17 Royal Air Force Ministry of the Interior Training System at Cranwell sites across the UK Secured a new four-year Delivered the first group of air ambulance contract PC-21 training aircraft and in Gothenburg construction of new PC-21 Signed a new four-year simulation building underway search and rescue contract in Cognac, in support of our with the Coast Guard of French Air Force flying Galicia, Spain training contract Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Strategic report Governance statement Financials FOMEDEC progressing well In December 2016, Babcock was simulation systems and provide related Babcock will provide aircraft awarded an 11-year FOMEDEC services for the fighter jet crews of the maintenance and integrated logistics contract by the French Ministry of French Air Force.
services as part of the contracted Defence, DGA French Defence delivery.
When fully operational, 14 The first flight of the aircraft took place Procurement Agency, to deliver and aircraft will be required to be ready in July 2017 at the Pilatus factory in maintain new training aircraft and for flying operations on any given day Stans, Switzerland.
to support up to four sorties of 14 aircraft per day, plus a demanding night flying programme.
11,000 flight hours are to be delivered each year.
FOMEDEC also provides for pilots basic flying training on new PC-21 aircraft in Cognac.
On 12 February 2018, the FAF and Babcock laid the foundation stone for the Simulation Building.
It will house three Part Task Trainers, two Full Mission Simulators and an Ejection Seat Training Device together with other equipment cockpit egress trainer, ejection seat trainer and under canopy trainer and training areas.
The building is set for completion by summer 2018. engage with non-OEMs for support and business today, but with a multi-billion Market overview training capabilities such as our FOMEDEC global market, only 20% of which is Our business covers both military and contract in France.
European air forces currently outsourced, we believe it civil aviation, with several sector-wide are procuring latest generation combat presents significant opportunities.
capabilities including technology, safety aircraft and live flying training is an Babcock is one of the worlds leading and training.
Our competitors range from increasingly expensive activity, with fewer, providers of fixed-wing and rotary-wing large multi-national aviation companies to and increasingly obsolescent, training firefighting services.
Wildfires are smaller localised competitors, particularly assets available.
Simulation and synthetic becoming a serious global issue, increasing in our civil aviation business.
training is becoming more prominent.
in frequency and ferocity annually, as the Our focus in military is the delivery of Broader international markets show strong world saw last year.
Current operations airbase support, training support and growth potential and we see increasing primarily rely on unsophisticated small aircraft engineering support to UK and interest in our full life-cycle offering and operators with limited capability and European customers including France capabilities, which we are already technology enhancement.
The Royal Air Force RAF is delivering in the UK, France and Spain.
and investment Babcock is beginning to undergoing a period of ground-breaking In our civil aviation business, aerial professionalise the sector and will develop training and estate transformation and Emergency Medical Services EMS a global deployable model offering the UK Military Flying Training System is a large and growing global market technology-based differentiated services.
UKMFTS is moving into the operational providing complex and critical services.
In the commoditised oil and gas training phase.
We expect to see a Babcock is the second largest EMS helicopter market we are a relatively number of major programmes developing provider in the world with around small operator, with roughly 4% of the in the UK military air domain to support 10% of the market and the leading global market share.
Competition in this the broad range of new capabilities and position in all markets where we operate.
platform investments as well as legacy We see an increasingly complex medical fleets of helicopters and training aircraft.
care market, with an estimate of global European defence aviation markets are spend between 2-3 billion annually.
developing, with an increasing desire to Search and Rescue is a small part of our Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Operational review: Aviation Strategy in action, continued and technical support partner, with Strategy Financial review early evidence seen in our recent We have four strategic priorities.
In UK The Aviation sector had a year of strong HADES win, and to develop a UK Military we aim to broaden our customer growth with underlying revenue up military rotary-wing support business.
base into naval aviation and Joint 16.9% to 1,022.1 million 2017: 874.0 We are currently exploring the air Helicopter Command.
Organic growth at constant support to defence operational training Military we are delivering our first major exchange rates was 15.6%.
Both UK and market, which globally is worth around French contract and have good prospects European Defence alongside Emergency 1.5 billion a year.
for delivering training in other countries.
Services were strong drivers of growth In Emergency Services we are developing with contract wins throughout the year.
Western air forces commit around excellent new capabilities, and in Our training support contract with the 80% of their time in training and they Firefighting we are building new French air force, FOMEDEC, is progressing are increasingly looking to industry approaches for this vital service.
well with revenue and cash improving.
support to deliver the outputs that they Aircraft delivery will be completed during demand and we are developing a number Aviation brings together all of Babcocks 2018 19 with the customer accepting of new opportunities to become the flight military and civil aviation capabilities finance leases, which will then be training partner for a number of European under a single leadership, which has converted into cash through our signed air forces.
resulted in an updated strategy that securitisation agreements with a major we believe will deliver growth in both Our strategic vision for Emergency Medical French bank.
UK training programmes are revenue and profits.
Services is to become the global market also progressing well, and we expect our leader through innovation driving a higher We plan to grow our successful UK prudent margin recognition to build quality and more cost effective service military aviation business to become an towards Group levels as risks are retired than our competitors.
We also aim to be indispensable aviation support partner to and project milestones are met.
the worlds first fully integrated and the Royal Air Force, Royal Navy and British Despite a strong year of revenue growth, professional aerial firefighting company Army.
Today we are a critical component underlying operating profit decreased building on the best practice that we of the UK military flying training system marginally to 144.3 million 2017: already deliver across southern Europe, and we provide engineering support to 145.5 million.
As defence contracts supported by technology to improve more than 30% of all UK military aircraft.
build to Group margin levels, our oil and safety and operations.
Our aim is to become the UK MODs gas helicopter business continues to aviation training, operational assurance Viking Recovery Programme The Viking glider is used by the RAF Air in order to return them to an approved again have their fleet of Viking gliders Cadet organisation to give basic gliding airworthiness baseline and allow safe back to an airworthiness condition, training to air cadets.
Nine volunteer cadet gliding operations to continue allowing them to continue their gliding squadrons operate the type at into the future.
We are now halfway essential air cadet flying training locations around the UK, training air through the recovery programme at programme giving access to flying to cadets to a standard sufficient for them Membury in West Berkshire, working many air cadets all over the UK.
Since 2014 the entire fleet with our partner Southern Sail Planes programme of youth engagement is a of Viking gliders has been grounded who are the UKs leading experts in core tenant of the RAF100 celebrations due to airworthiness concerns.
that Babcock is proud to be sponsoring grounding has resulted in the loss of the this year, aiming to commemorate, In March 2019, at the end of a c 6 aircraft available to air cadets meaning celebrate and inspire.
million programme, the RAF will once they no longer have access to the fundamental early RAF flying training that is such an important part of their youth engagement programme.
In 2016, the RAF came to Babcock to help recover their fleet of gliders and we were awarded a contract to lead and manage a programme to recover sufficient Viking gliders to provide UK wide coverage.
The contract is to strip, inspect, repair and refurbish the aircraft Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 50 Strategic report Governance statement Financials underperform in a deteriorating and These facilities will now be used by Ascent relationships across Europe, including saturated market environment, and are a Babcock joint venture alongside the with Leonardo and Airbus.
Helidax, furthered hampered by H225 helicopter recently procured fleets of new aircraft to our helicopter pilot training contract, costs.
Aviation margin for the year was deliver a world class training programme continues to perform well in France 14.1% 2017: 16.6%, a reduction from for all future military pilots.
Looking and our European pipeline continues to the previous year, which benefited from forward, the business is currently develop with more strategic opportunities the end of long-term contracts at a preparing a bid for the RAF Air Support of scale.
closing phase of margin recognition.
to Defence Operational Training ASDOT Aerial emergency services Emergency Services continues to deliver opportunity to provide adversary air healthy margins.
combat training in partnership with We are a leading provider of aerial EMS, experienced military air training provider both in existing territories and in new Operational review Elbit Systems.
Earlier this year we were awarded a contract by the Norwegian UK military air European military air Government to provide high-specification The UK Military Air business secured a As our European Military Air business fixed-wing air ambulance services across key new contract in November 2017 approaches its first anniversary, it Norway for an initial six years, with options with the award of the 160 million has delivered on its key targets and to extend by a further five years.
We Royal Air Force RAF HADES contract.
positioned itself successfully to continue to drive technological innovation The contract went live on 1 April 2018 execute its strategy.
The mobilisation of in markets characterised by world-leading and provides a wide range of technical FOMEDEC has progressed well to reach standards, with the aim of continuously support to 17 RAF stations employing over critical milestones including the successful delivering operational excellence and 800 people.
In support of the UKMFTS, first qualification test flight, the laying safety, improving patient outcomes, and Babcock has programme-managed the of the foundation stone on the simulator consequently the efficiency of health commissioning of 10 new facilities building, the relocation of the team to agencies.
In Italy we enhanced our comprising five training buildings and five the site in Cognac and signing of the service by introducing night operations in hangars used for aircraft storage, aircraft securitisation agreement.
We are several Italian regions, as well as starting maintenance and simulator housing.
developing strategic military OEM new trials to integrate Remotely Piloted HADES Babcock has been awarded three two one-year extensions which Babcocks programme will support significant new regional contracts could increase the value to around over 19 separate services and almost by the UK Ministry of Defence under 220 million, the TSSP contracts 5,000 requirements to Single, Joint the Technical Support Services include the provision of aircraft and Tri Services.
These contracts Provision TSSP programme for maintenance and operations, cement our position as a key support 17 sites across the whole of the UK.
airfield support and operations partner to the RAF.
We will deliver Worth a total of around 160 million and vehicle fleet logistics, together excellent integrated service capability for the first five years for all three with specialist armoury and as well as significant cost savings to regions, with options for a further engineering support.
The three HADES contracts went live on 1 April 2018 on two existing Babcock sites, Wyton and Henlow, and eight new sites.
These will be added to in June with Cosford and in July with Linton and five more new sites, making a total of 17 sites.
Following a very collaborative discovery exercise with the customer we will be TUPEing over around 800 new staff after which we then enter a stabilisation phase, followed by a transition phase culminating in around 1,000 people working on HADES at steady state.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Operational review: Aviation Strategy in action, continued Aircraft System technology into EMS.
In Spain, we successfully renewed EMS contracts, including a new service covering the Canary Islands, while in France we are delivering multi-base operations for the South West contract.
We will continue to deliver as we grow our global presence and reputation as a leading EMS provider.
Also in Spain, we have been selected by the Spanish Safety Maritime Agency SASEMAR, part of the Public Works Ministry of Spain, as preferred bidder for the renewal of a nationally significant aerial search and rescue contract worth around 160 million for the first four years.
Last summer, Southern Europe experienced the worst forest fires in over five years.
Since the start of the 2017 firefighting season, we have supported the extinction of 613 fires in Spain alone, with more than 17,000 flight hours and 72,500 water drops from our aircraft.
In addition, the Italian Governments fleet of amphibious firefighting aircraft, which we operate and maintain, played a crucial role in the extinction of major fires in Portugal and Southern France.
Babcock participated in the European Union firefighting pool in these two countries.
We were a trusted partner to local, regional and national governments all over Europe throughout this complex Southern Europe firefighting support firefighting campaign.
We also successfully renewed a number of contracts for Wildfires are becoming a serious been awarded a significant national nationwide and regional services in Spain.
global issue, increasing in frequency contract by the Italian Ministry of Deep engagements on high standards of and ferocity annually, with seasonal Interior for a fully outsourced aerial health and safety have resulted in a safe patterns affecting different regions firefighting service.
Investing in innovation and throughout the year.
2017 saw some The contract started in February cutting edge technology is positioning of the most ferocious wildfires for 2018, and is worth a total of around Babcock as a leading company on many years.
Babcock supports the 160 million for the first four years firefighting resources.
fight against these fires across the and includes an option for a further Mediterranean from our bases in four-year extension which could Oil and gas Italy and Spain, and using our fleet of increase this value to around Whilst the Oil and Gas business is a small more than 100 aircraft.
part of the Aviation sector, it continues extinguished 613 fires in Spain alone to be impacted by challenging industry The contract, which Babcock has been with more than 17,000 flight hours conditions, with options to use aircraft successfully operating for seven years, and 72,500 water drops.
Our aim in other lines of business being explored.
will see the delivery of firefighting is to continue this support and Our operational delivery however remains services across up to 10 bases across develop a globally deployable strong with significant focus on safety Italy, together with fleet management, model offering technology-based where we continue our work as a operations and maintenance of 19 differentiated services.
founding member of HeliOffshore and CL-415 Canadair aircraft owned by the Demonstrating our world-class customer satisfaction remains positive.
capability in this area, Babcock has Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 52 Strategic report Governance statement Financials We have continued to build on developing leadership capability, extending our Cutting edge firefighting successful first line manager behavioural Every second counts when it comes Our technology solution doesnt stop development programme into Spain to tackling fires and preventing loss of there.
EINFOREX can also detect the and delivering an Executive Leadership life.
In Southern Europe, our work in mobile phones of civilians in the fire Coaching programme for senior aerial fighting is at the forefront of affected areas and can advise those managers.
In UK Military Air, we have technology innovation and its where running the mission of the best escape developed and implemented a bespoke our EINFOREX technology solution is routes for those caught up in the fire.
framework and toolkit to support our making a real difference.
The EINFOREX people in working inclusively and Our technology solutions such as system gathers intelligence and data respecting each other, in line with the EINFOREX show how Babcock from firefighting missions, which is then Groups guiding principles.
really does thrive in complex sent in real time to command and environments which require specialist In November, 20 apprentices and their control centres.
Analysis of vital engineering expertise.
managers participated in an Outward information is then used to enhance Bound Trust development programme firefighting tactics and safety for to integrate development of a range firefighters, and to save lives.
of personal and professional skills into our existing technical apprenticeship Mapped images of the fire are programmes.
We have also extended sent to emergency control centres our involvement with educational STEM giving them an instant picture of the activities, working with Women In Science incident they are working on including & Engineering to develop a STEM Toolkit temperature changes within the fire so and partnering with STEM Learning on they can decide from the information a range of educational liaison activities received the best places to deploy within our contractual areas.
Using the helicopter as a relay, the geo-position of the aircraft, Outlook firefighters and ground vehicles, Our prospects are strong in our are also transmitted back to the chosen markets of UK Military, European command and control centre, Military, EMS and Firefighting.
We have giving accurate information on the an excellent pipeline of opportunities in locations of all those involved in the UK Military as the RAF introduces new firefighting mission.
platforms and needs increased training and cost effective ways of supporting them.
Our new European Military Aviation We continue to develop safety initiatives Sustainability business has quickly established a pipeline such as Fatigue Risk Management and Safety remains our highest priority.
of new training related opportunities.
We continue to be Throughout the year we have continued EMS remains an area of ever increasing the global leader in the implementation to develop and implement an industry demand and, after an incredibly busy of aviation fatigue risk management leading Safety Management System within summer in 2017, we look to add new systems in advance of regulation.
our civil businesses, which we are now technical capability in our Firefighting expanding across the wider sector.
Our We have extended our talent recognition business to improve the capacity and safety culture stresses the importance of and talent development capability, effectiveness of this service.
learning from experience and working to developing international graduate We expect strong underlying revenue develop and maintain an efficient learning placement opportunities to foster more growth in 2019 but that the mix of cycle through communication, reporting diverse and international talent.
Our 2018 business will result in a softening margin.
At the end of 2017 we graduate intake has increased by 50% and, rolled out a refreshed Safety Behaviours working with other Babcock sectors, we & Expectations programme.
have implemented a behavioural graduate development programme to ensure Our civil business continues to improve its our graduates are equipped to work safety performance, which remains well effectively in cross-cultural, dynamic below industry peers.
Workplace Health, and complex environments.
Safety and Environment has enjoyed an overall reduction in workplace injuries and lost time.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 53
