Strategic report Governance statement Financials Relations with Shareholders salesteams and analysts.
The Company explainedin his annual statement on Dialogue with Shareholders offers meetings with the Chief Executive pages 98 and 99.
Both the Chairman The Board believes it is important and Group Finance Director to its top and Sir David Omand, the Senior tomaintain open and constructive 20Shareholders at least twice a year Independent Director, are available relationships with all of its Shareholders and, additionally, during the year the to Shareholders should they have any large and small, institutional and Chairman wrote to our largest concerns where contact through the private.
The Chief Executive, the Group Shareholders inviting them to meet normal channels isdeemed inappropriate Finance Director and the Group Director with him to discuss strategy, performance or where Shareholders believe a matter of Investor Relations and Communications and corporate governance matters.
has not been adequately resolved.
undertake a programme of meetings, TheChairman of the Remuneration conference calls and presentations to Committee was also in contact with discuss the Groups strategy and financial leading Shareholders as further performance with investors, brokers How we communicate Results and trading updates available as audiocasts at www.
com investors When Full-year and half-year results: announcement and presentation May and November 2017 Interim management statements and conference call with Group Finance Director July 2017 and February 2018 Other presentations When By Group Finance Director at broker organised conferences and events June, July and September 2017 and March 2018 Dealings with Shareholders, investors and analysts When Resolutions of AGM available at www.
com investors Meetings with Shareholders and potential investors Throughout Meetings with sell-side analysts and brokers sales teams Throughout Letter from the Group Chairman to our Shareholders December 2017 Annual General Meeting July 2017 Roadshow in London and Edinburgh May and November 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Relations with Shareholders, continued Over 94% of Babcock shares are held Annual General Meeting byinstitutional Shareholders.
Whilst it is The 2018 AGM will be held at normal practice for institutional funds to 11:00 am onThursday 19 July 2018 have a greater degree of contact with the at the Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, Company, all Shareholders are welcome London W1K7TN.
The Company will send to raise questions with the Board at the notice of the AGM and any related papers Annual General Meeting.
at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting in accordance with best In addition, on a day to day basis, our practice standards.
investor relations team engages with Shareholders on a wide range of issues All Shareholders are welcome.
The event on avariety of platforms.
To assist our provides a platform for the Chairman private and international Shareholders, andChief Executive to explain how the the investor relations team makes sure Company has progressed during the year.
that all price-sensitive information is It also provides all Shareholders with the released in accordance with the opportunity to put questions to the applicable legal andregulatory Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen requirements.
All announcements and ofthe Audit and Risk, Nominations and major presentations given to institutional Remuneration Committees, and the Senior Shareholders, along with annual reports, Independent Director.
At these meetings, shareholder circulars, shareholder services a poll is conducted on each Resolution.
information, other stock exchange Shareholders also have the opportunity to releases and share price information, cast their votes by proxy in advance of the are made available to all Shareholders meeting.
Directors also make themselves through the Babcock website available before and after the AGM to talk www.
The Company ensures that AGM the results of the polls are published the Board has an up to date perspective on the Companys website and released on the views andopinions of Shareholders to the London Stock Exchange.
An investor relations report summarising share price performance compared to market, changes to the Shareholder register and feedback from Shareholders is produced for each Board meeting.
During 2017 18, the Company once again commissioned Clare Williams Associates to undertake a market perception review to provide an independent evaluation of investor attitudes towards the Group, which this year involved 28 buy-side institutional investors seven US institutions, 15 UK institutions and six European institutions.
The results were formally presented to the Board in September 2017.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 132
