Strategic report Governance statement Financials Additional statutory information Directors report and other disclosures Employee involvement The Directors report comprises this section, as well as the rest of the Governance Engagement with our employees is section and those sections incorporated by reference below.
4 R and which form part of the Directors report can be The Company operates a UK-approved found at the locations provided in the table below: share plan, the Babcock Employee Share Plan, which is open to all employees of Listing Rule Topic Location participating UK Group companies.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Financial statements, notes 11 and 12 allows the Company to award free and Group during the year on pages 171 and 172 or matching shares to participants.
4 12-13 Shareholder waivers of Financial statements, note 22 on shares bought on behalfof the employee dividends and future dividends page 184 are held in a tax-approved employee trust.
Other disclosure requirements set out in LR 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the Company.
The trustees of the Plan exercise votingrights attached to those shares Other information that is also relevant and which is incorporated by reference can be inaccordance with directions from the located as follows: employees on whose behalf they areheld.
Topic Location Financial risk management regarding financial instruments Note 2, pages 160 to 163 The Company has also established for certain non-UK employees an International Greenhouse gas emissions Page 67 Plan which reflects the structure of the Post balance sheet events Note 35, page 194 UKPlan.
Likely future developments in the business of the Group Strategic report Details of important events affecting the Group Strategic report Senior employees of the Group are given awards under the Companys long-term For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 R the required content of the incentive plans as detailed in the Management report can be found in the Strategic report and the Directors report Remuneration report on pages 98 to 130. including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Shares intended to be used for satisfying existing share awards and options are held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee The Company Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Babcock International Group PLC, registered and domiciled in England andWales, with Share Trust.
The trustees of these Schemes the registered number 2342138, is the holding company fortheBabcock International have no present intention of exercising Group ofcompanies.
the votingrights attached to the shares heldby them.
Results and dividends The profit attributable to the owners of the Company for the financial year was 336.3 Twice a year representatives from across the UK and the other European countries million 2017: 311.8 million.
An interim dividend of 6.85 pence per 60pence ordinary share was declared inthe year 2017: 6.50 pence.
The Directors are recommending that in which we operate attend the Babcock International Group Employee Forum, Shareholders approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final dividend for the year of 22.65 pence 2017: 21.65 pence on each of the ordinary shares of 60 pence to which informs employee representatives about developments in the management be paid on 10 August 2018 to those Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2018. of the Group.
As outlined in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 110, the Employee Forum considers and is Major shareholdings given the opportunity to provide feedback As at 31 March 2018, the Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and on a summary of the Companys Transparency Rules DTR of the following major interests in voting rights attached to its Remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Further information regarding our Number of 60 pence ordinary % of issued share capital on Name shares on date of notification date of notification employees and their involvement within Invesco Ltd 51,258,266 10.13% the business, including the Companys policy on discrimination and diversity, The Capital Group Companies Inc. 50,380,653 9.96% can be found within the Sustainability Standard Life Aberdeen PLC 29,409,369 5.81% report on pages 64 and 65 and the Woodford Investment Management LLP 25,474,689 5.04% Governance statement on page 93.
Since 31 March 2018 the Company has been notified by Deutsche Bank AG that it has an interest in 25,594,321 shares representing 5.07% in the share capital of the Company and by Standard Life Aberdeen PLC that it has an interest in 25,088,864 shares representing 4.96% in the share capital of the Company.
There have been no further notifications between then and the date of this report.
The holdings set out above relate only to notifications of interests in the issued share capital received by the Company pursuant to DTR 5 and consequently do not necessarily represent current levels ofinterest.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Additional statutory information, continued Share Trust in connection with the Employment of Significant agreements Companys executive share plans are to disabled persons that take effect, alter be found in note 22 on pages 182 to 184 and details of purchases of the Companys equal opportunities or terminate upon a shares by Link Market Services Trustee Babcock is committed to equal change of control Limited in connection with matching opportunities and will not discriminate share awards under the Babcock Many agreements entered into by onthe basis of disability, age, race, the Company or its subsidiaries contain Employee Share Plan can be found in colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital provisions entitling the other parties note 23 on page 185. status, religious or political beliefs or to terminate them in the event of a sexualorientation.
change of control of the Group company Qualifying third-party We believe that only by encouraging concerned, which can often be triggered applicants from the widest pool of talent indemnity provisions by a takeover of the Company.
possible, and then selecting the best The Company has entered into deeds of Although the Group has some contracts candidate based on their ability to do the indemnity with each of its Directors who that on their own are not significant to job, can we ensure we continue to deliver served during the year and or who are the Group, several may be with the same our best for our customers and safeguard currently Directors which are qualifying customer.
If, upon a change of control, the future of Babcock.
third-party indemnity provisions for the the customer decided to terminate all purpose of the Companies Act 2006 such agreements, the aggregate impact inrespect of their Directorships of Research and could be significant.
theCompany and, if applicable, of development The following agreements are those itssubsidiaries.
The Group commits resources to individual agreements which the Under their respective Articles of research and development to the extent Company considers to be significant Association, Directors of Group UK management considers necessary for the tothe Group as a whole that contain subsidiary companies may be indemnified evolution and growth of its business.
provisions giving the other party a specific by the company concerned of which they right to terminate them if theCompany are or were Directors against liabilities and is subject to a change ofcontrol.
Political donations costs incurred in connection with the No donations were made during the year execution of their duties or the exercise Group for political purposes.
oftheir powers, to the extent permitted Borrowing facilities by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company extended the maturity Authority to purchase There are also qualifying third-party date of its five-year 750,000,000 indemnity provisions entered into own shares Revolving Credit Facility by a further between the Company and Archie Bethel At the Annual General Meeting in July year, from December 2019 to and Kevin Thomas in their capacity as 2017, members authorised the Company December 2020.
Directors of International Nuclear to make market purchases of up to The facility provides funds for general Solutions PLC a former subsidiary of the 50,559,659 of its own ordinary shares corporate and working capital purposes.
Company which were in force at the date of60 pence each.
In the event of a change of control of of approval of this report.
That authority expires at the forthcoming the Company, the facility agreement Qualifying pension scheme indemnity Annual General Meeting in July 2018 provides that the lenders may, within provisions are also in place for the benefit when a Resolution will be put to renew a certain period, call for the payment of Directors of the Group companies that itso as to allow purchases of up to a of any outstanding loans and cancel act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
maximum of no more than 10% of the the credit facility.
No shares In February 2018, the Company in the Company have been purchased by entered into a two and half year the Company in the period from 13 July 100,000,000 credit facility with 2017 the date the current authority was Lloyds Bank PLC.
The Company may use granted to the date of this Report.
The the facility for general corporate and Company currently does not hold any working capital purposes.
On a change of treasury shares.
control of the Company, Lloyds Bank PLC Details of issues to and purchases of the may, within a certain period, call for Companys shares made in the year to payment of any outstanding amount and 31March 2018 by the Babcock Employee cancel the facility.
Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 134 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Multi-Currency Loan Note facility Contracts with employees or Directors national security, the MOD considers that it is inappropriate for the new owners The Company has in issue 40 million A description of those agreements with of the Company to become involved, 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due Directors that contain provisions relating or interested, in the Marine division.
21 January 2020 the Notes, a facility to payments in the event of a termination Change in control occurs where a person which is unsecured and unsubordinated of employment following a change of or group of persons that controls the control of the Company is set out on and ranks pari passu with all other Company ceases to do so orif another unsecured and unsubordinated financial pages 108 and 109. person or group of persons acquires indebtedness obligations of the Company.
Marine Unless previously redeemed orpurchased and cancelled, the Company will redeem Articles of Association of Devonport Maritime Support Delivery Framework the Notes on 21January 2020 at their Royal Dockyard Limited and Rosyth Agreement dated 1 October 2014 Royal Dockyard Limited principal amount.
In the event of a change between 1 The Secretary of State for of control of the Company before then, Defence 2 Devonport Royal Dockyard The Articles of Association of Devonport Limited 3 Babcock Marine Clyde the Company must offer to repay the Notes Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL and Limited and 4 Babcock Marine together with a make-whole premium.
Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, Rosyth Limited both subsidiaries of the Company, grant US Dollar Loan Notes In October 2014, Babcock signed the the MOD as the holder of a special share The Company has in issue US$500 million Maritime Support Delivery Framework in each of those companies certain rights aggregate principal amount of 5.64% Series MSDF with MOD.
Working within the in certain circumstances.
Such rights B Senior Notes due 17 March 2021.
The ToBA, which runs through to 2025, MSDF include the right to require the sale of notes are unsecured and unsubordinated confirms the continuation of Babcocks shares in, and the right to remove and rank pari passu with all other unsecured contract to deliver services at HMNB Clyde Directors of, the company concerned.
The and unsubordinated financial indebtedness and HMNB Devonport to March 2020, circumstances inwhich such rights might obligations of the Company.
In the event of replacing Babcocks Warship Support arise include where the MOD considers a change of control of the Company before Modernisation Initiative WSMI contracts.
that unacceptable ownership, influence then, the Company must offer to purchase The MSDF agreement also covers a or control domestic or foreign has been the Notes.
number of surface ship projects which will acquired over the company in question 1,800,000,000 Euro Medium-Term be delivered through the Surface Ship and that this is contrary to the essential Note Programme Support Alliance.
MOD can terminate the security interests of the UK.
This might The Company has in place a Euro MSDF in the event of a change in control apply, for example, in circumstances Medium-Term Note Programme under of the Company.
Theprovisions follow where any non-UK person s directly which the Company could issue notes those in ToBA inthisrespect.
or indirectly acquire control over more up to 1,800,000,000.
Under the Note than 30% of the shares of the relevant Programme, the Company has in issue Cavendish Nuclear subsidiary, although such a situation is not 550,000,000 1.75% Notes due in 2022 of itself such a circumstance unless the Parent Body Agreement between as well as 300,000,000 1.875% Notes MOD in the given situation considers it to Cavendish Fluor Partnership CFP due in 2026. and the Nuclear Decommissioning be so.
Any level of ownership by particular Authority NDA dated 27 August 2014 foreign or domestic persons may, on the If there is a change of control of the facts of the case, be sotreated.
CFP, a joint venture between Cavendish Company and the Notes then in issue carry Nuclear, part of Babcock International, an investment-grade credit rating which is Under its Articles of Association RRDL is and US-based Fluor Corporation, with either downgraded to non-investmentnot entitled to redeem the special share.
ownership split 65:35 to Cavendish grade, or carry a non-investment-grade Terms of Business Agreement ToBA and Fluor respectively, is the parent rating which is further downgraded or dated 25 March 2010 between 1 The body organisation PBO for the site withdrawn, or do not carry an investmentSecretary of State for Defence 2 licence company Magnox Limited.
grade rating and the Company does not Babcock International Group PLC 3 obtain an investment-grade rating for the Magnox Limited is responsible for 10 Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited 4 Notes, a Note holder may require that the Magnox nuclear power plants, as well Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Company redeem or, at the Companys Babcock Marine Rosyth Limited asthe Harwell and Winfrith research option, repurchase the Notes.
The sites are all owned by the The ToBA confirms Babcock as a key Nuclear Decommissioning Authority Share plans support partner of MOD in the maritime NDA.
The NDA has appointed CFP as sector and covers the 15-year period from The Companys share plans contain thePBO in respect of the management 2010 to 2025.
The MOD may terminate provisions as a result of which options and ofthe 12 UK nuclear sites and their the ToBA in the event of a change in awards may vest and become exercisable respective decommissioning programmes.
control of the Company in circumstances on a change of control of theCompany in Under the terms of appointment the where, acting on the grounds of accordance with the rules of the plans.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Additional statutory information, continued NDA may terminate CFPs appointment if including authority to allot free trading laws or by the nationality-related restrictions, more particularly described there is a change ofcontrol to which it has ofstatutory pre-emption rights up to not consented.
specified amounts and also to buy back later on this page.
the Companys shares, again up to a The Company is not aware of any Aviation specified amount.
agreements between Shareholders MCS Operators Licences At a general meeting of the Company, thatmay result in restrictions on the Certain of the operating subsidiaries of every member has one vote on a show transfer of securities or voting rights in Babcock Mission Critical Services Limited ofhands and, on a poll, one vote for each the Company.
engaged in the provision of the air services share held.
The notice of general meeting At the date of this report 505,596,597 described on pages 48 to 53 of this report specifies deadlines for exercising voting ordinary shares of 60 pence each have are required to hold operating licences in rights, either by proxy or by being present been issued and are fully paid up and are order to operate their principal business.
in person, in relation to resolutions to be quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
the Regulation, a holder of an operating Nationality-related restrictions No member is, unless the Board decides licence is required to be majority-owned otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, on share ownership and majority-controlled by European either personally or by proxy, at a general As noted above under MCS Operators Economic Area EEA nationals, which meeting or to exercise any other right Licences certain Group companies must includes for these purposes nationals of conferred by being a shareholder if they or comply with the requirements of EC member states of the European Union, any person with an interest in their shares Regulation 1008 2008 the Regulation Norway and Switzerland.
If the relevant has been sent a notice under Section 793 which, amongst other things, requires operators cease to be owned and of the Companies Act 2006 which those companies to be majority-owned effectively controlled by EEA nationals, confers upon public companies the power and majority-controlled by EEA nationals.
this could lead to aviation regulators to require the provision of information refusing, withholding, suspending or At the Companys Annual General Meeting with respect to interests in their voting revoking the relevant operating licence in July 2014, Shareholders approved the shares and they or any interested person which in turn could have a material amendment of the Companys Articles of have failed to supply the Company with adverse effect onthe business, financial Association the Articles to include the information requested within condition and or operations of the Group.
provisions intended toassist the Company 14 days after delivery ofthat notice.
The Board believes that these companies in ensuring continuing compliance with The Board may also decide that no currently satisfy the relevant nationality these obligations by giving the Company dividend is payable in respect of those requirements of the Regulation.
However, and the Directors powers to monitor and, defaulting shares and that no transfer of as compliance with the Regulation is an in certain circumstances, actively manage any defaulting shares shall be registered.
ongoing requirement, the risk of this nationality requirements as regards These restrictions end seven days after ceasing to be so cannot be ruled out.
ownership of its shares with a view receipt by the Company of a notice of to protecting the value of the See also Nationality-related restrictions an approved transfer of the shares Group undertakings that hold the on share ownership below.
or all the information required bythe relevant operating licences.
A summary relevant Section 793 notice, whichever of these powers is set out below.
Share capital and rights Reference should, however, also be The Directors may refuse to register made to the Companys Articles, a copy attaching to the any transfer of any share which is not a of which maybe found on its website at Companys shares fully-paid share, although such discretion www.
In may not be exercised in a way which the theevent of any conflict between the General Financial Conduct Authority regards as Articles and this summary, the Articles Under the Companys Articles of preventing dealings in the shares of the shall prevail.
Association, any share in the Company relevant class or classes from taking place Relevant Shares may be issued with such rights or on an open or proper basis.
The Directors restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, Relevant Shares are any shares which the may likewise refuse to register any transfer voting, return of capital or otherwise, as Directors have determined or the holders of a share in favour of more than four the Company may from time to time by have acknowledged are shares owned by persons jointly.
ordinary resolution determine or, in the non-EEA nationals for the purposes of the The Company is not aware of any other absence of any such determination, as the Regulation Relevant Shares.
It is open to restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Directors may determine.
The Directors shareholders to make representations Company other than certain restrictions practice is to seek authority from tothe Directors with a view to that may from time to time be imposed by Shareholders at each years Annual demonstrating that shares should laws and regulations for example, insider General Meeting to allot shares notbetreated as Relevant Shares.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 136 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Maintenance of a register of Power to treat shares as Circumstances in which the non-EEA shareholders Affected Shares Directors may determine that shares are AffectedShares The Articles empower the Directors, The Company maintains a register The Articles provide that where the which is separate from the statutory incertain circumstances, to treat shares as Affected Shares.
If the Directors Directors determine that it is necessary register of members containing details totake steps in order to protect an of Relevant Shares.
This assists the determine that any shares are to be treated as Affected Shares, they may operating licence of the Group they may: Directors in assessing, on an ongoing i seek to identify those shares which have basis, whether the number of Relevant serve an Affected Share Notice on the registered Shareholder and any other given rise to the determination andto Shares is such that action as outlined deal with such shares as Affected Shares: below may be required to prevent or person that appears to have an interest inthose shares.
The recipients of an and or ii specify a maximum number of remedy a breach of the Regulation.
shares which will be less than 50% of the Affected Share Notice are entitled to The Directors will remove, from the make representations to the Directors Companys issued share capital that may separate register, particulars of shares be owned by non-EEA nationals and then with a view to demonstrating that such where they are satisfied that either the shares should not be treated as Affected to treat any shares owned by non-EEA share is no longer a Relevant Share or that nationals in excess ofthat limit as Affected Shares.
The Directors may withdraw an the nature of the interest in the share is Affected Share Notice if they resolve Shares the Directors will publish a notice such that the share should not betreated of any specified maximum within two thatthe circumstances giving rise to the as a Relevant Share.
shares being treated as Affected Shares business days of resolving to impose such Disclosure obligations on share limit.
In deciding which shares are to be no longer exist.
ownership dealt with as Affected Shares the Directors Consequences of holding or having The Articles empower the Company to, shall be entitled to determine which an interest in Affected Shares at any time, require a Shareholder or Relevant Shares in their sole opinion have A holder of Affected Shares is not entitled, other person with a confirmed or apparent directly or indirectly caused the relevant in respect of those shares, to attend or interest in the shares to provide in writing determination.
However, so far as speak whether by proxy or in person such information as the Directors practicable, the Directors shall have at any general or class meeting ofthe determine is necessary or desirable to regard to the chronological order in which Company or to vote or to exercise any ascertain such persons nationality and, the Relevant Shares have been entered in other right at such meetings and the rights accordingly, whether details of the shares the separate register.
attaching to such shares will vest in the should be entered in the separate register Right to refuse registration Chairman of the relevant meeting who as Relevant Shares or are capable of being may exercise, or refrain fromexercising, The Articles provide the Directors with Affected Shares see below.
such rights at his solediscretion.
the power to refuse registration of a If the recipient of a nationality information share transfer if, in their reasonable The Affected Shares Notice may, if the request from the Company does not opinion, such transfer would result in Directors determine, also require that respond satisfactorily to the request within shares being treated or continuing to the Affected Shares must be disposed of the prescribed period being 21 days from betreated as Affected Shares.
within 10 days of receiving such notice the receipt of the notice, the Company or such longer period as the Directors The Articles also provide that the has the power to suspend the right of such may specify such that the Affected Shares Directors shall not register any person Shareholder to attend or speak whether become owned by an EEA national, failing as a holder of any share in the Company by proxy or in person at any general or which the Directors may arrange for the unless the Directors receive a declaration class meeting ofthe Company or to vote sale of the relevant shares at the best price of nationality relating to such person and or exercise any other right attaching to reasonably obtainable at the time.
The net such further information as they may the shares in question.
Where the shares proceeds of any sale of Affected Shares reasonably request with respect to that represent at least 0.25% of the aggregate would be held on trust and paid together nationality declaration.
nominal value of the Companys share with such rate of interest as the Directors capital, the Company may also subject to The Directors believe that currently deem appropriate to the former certain exceptions refuse to register the the nationality requirements, set out in registered holder upon surrender of the transfer of such shares.
the Regulation, are met and, based on relevant share certificate in respect of the Companys understanding of the The Articles also require that a declaration the shares.
application of the Regulation and of its in a form prescribed by the Directors Shareholder base, more than 70% of the relating to the nationality of the transferee share capital of those companies which is provided to the Directors upon the are required to be majority-EEA-owned transfer of any shares in the Company, and controlled is owned by EEA nationals failing which the Directors mayrefuse to or funds managed in the EEA.
There can register such transfer seefurther below.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 137
