Operational review Technology in action: Land Driving efficiencies As the volume of data we have to deal with increases, Babcock works to secure solutions that enable information to be called up seamlessly and on demand Augmented empowering employees whilst being safer and reality driving more efficient.
efficiencies We use technology to support our customers by adapting and implementing innovative solutions often in highly regulated and complex areas.
Whatever Maintenance support the business need, we have created We work with virtual reality VR scenarios to port people the customer to into the environment they need to be in provide them with at the touch of a button.
a seamless view into When we were challenged by the UK the digital world, MOD to see how we could improve reducing timelines efficiencies for engineers working in whilst enhancing skills, remote environments, we gave them a safety and auditability.
pair of digitally enhanced glasses to see things a little differently.
Working together with the customer we created a scenario focused on the benefits of Augmented Reality that could support the maintenance activity with any asset.
We developed a prototype offering a truly immersive Augmented Reality experience which overlaid digital information in the real world and in real time for them.
Through our technology concept the engineer could now access several layers of information on any aspect of the asset he or she was working on.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Informed decisions The technology in these glasses informs the engineer if a pump is overheating or offers the history of a particular asset, allowing them to make better informed decisions.
Collaboration Design and partnership Our technology support is always designed with The success of this prototype and the the customer in mind, whether its our defence, efficiencies its innovation has created are leading us education or blue light partnerships.
to develop even further our technological capabilities for Babcock and our customers.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Operational review Land Strategy in action The Land sector provides large-scale critical vehicle fleet management, equipment support and technical training for military and civil customers worldwide.
We are building on our experience of delivering critical services to key customers, including the UKs Ministry of Defence and Emergency Services, to continue to grow our business internationally.
2018 Underlying performance highlights 2018 2017 m Revenue % m of Group 35% Revenue total including jvs 1,849 1,812 joint ventures 89 126 Operating margin 7.6% Operating profit total including jvs 140 140 joint ventures 31 27 Revenue 2.1% growth Operating margin total including jvs 7.6% 7.7% joint ventures 35.4% 21.1% Key highlights New contract to support Strong support for New contract won to the Australian Defence Londons emergency deliver training for EDF Forces fleet of ground services during a Energys new nuclear plant support equipment challenging year in at Hinkley Point C the capital Developed BabcockJaguar Land Rover training designed virtual reality Successful delivery of delivery expanded with new training system for Royal School of Military technical apprenticeship engineers Engineering benchmarking programme programme Babcock Sponsored Eskom contract extension Reserves deployed alongside Airports baggage team for high pressure systems British Army personnel contributed towards recordoverseas breaking performance at Heathrow airport Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Market overview The HUB advanced data analytics We continue to see demand for fleet management, equipment support and Babcocks complex information analysis their interrelation with other aspects technical training services in the UK and capability, the HUB, has fused multiple such as training and supply chain overseas, particularly for customers with data sources together for the Army on management.
critical and complex fleets in the defence a single analysis platform, minimising The Army and Babcock now have a and civil sectors.
The at a glance decision support capability for testing In our Defence business, we continue dashboards allow the user to view key fleet-related questions, forecasts and to build our relationship with the British facts about a whole fleet, or drill down assumptions, modelling and simulating Army through our strategic partnership for to an individual vehicle type, studying fleets.
Skilled cognitive analysis means equipment support and individual training.
aspects such as fleet usage, failure and we are visualising and understanding We use enhanced data and analytics maintenance patterns, location analysis todays issues as well as predicting and to inform their decisions on equipment and availability.
testing the impact of future challenges.
support solutions and we have developed By providing a life map view of a This gives the customer the ability to innovative solutions to support planning vehicle, we have given the customer an plan effectively and make the most of for major change programmes.
We improved understanding of the valuable resources.
see opportunities to provide fleet complexity of vehicle programmes and management and equipment support solutions to new blue light emergency services customers in the UK and overseas.
Our investment in strategic fleet management capabilities and decision support and data analytics has positioned us strongly in this sector.
We experience continuing demand for our specialist technical training services.
The introduction of the Apprenticeship Levy in 2017 has had a significant impact on the market for apprentice training.
Whilst SMEs have reduced their uptake of new apprentices, larger firms are seeking support from This growth will be supported by large-scale providers such as Babcock to Strategy enable them to extract maximum value investment in technology and technical The Land sector provides engineering-led capabilities to deepen and extend our from the levy by optimising the mix of critical vehicle fleet management, training they provide.
We will equipment support and technical training introduce new technologies to increase services to customers operating in In our Rail business, we continue to the value and competitiveness of mission-critical environments.
We have support Network Rail and expect this our services and broaden the scope established a successful track record of relationship to continue as they move of our vehicle systems engineering and delivery and developed strong long-term into Control Period 6 from April 2019, integration capabilities.
In other businesses relationships with customers in our core which will see the delivery of a 47 billion that are of relatively small scale or are in markets of defence and emergency services, five-year expenditure plan.
markets offering more limited near-term and will continue to develop our specialist In South Africa, political uncertainty has growth, our activities and investments services to meet the changing requirements remained which has significantly impacted will be aimed at improving operational of our customers, exploiting advances in economic growth, however we have seen efficiency and maximising shorter-term technology and information systems.
a resurgence in the mining markets with value creation.
We are focused on growing our vehicle international demand driving production In South Africa, we continue to develop support and technical training services output and demand for our specialist a route to market for Fleet, expand to UK and international defence and mining equipment.
The latter part of export markets in the South African region emergency services customers including the year saw some political leadership and organically grow profitability in our vehicle support for European military changes relating to Eskom, the state product businesses through market share customers and on increasing the scale of owned power facility, which has brought expansion and new technology from our our technical training and apprenticeship some stability to the landscape.
work for key UK customers.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Operational review: Land Strategy in action, continued of the Whole Force Approach, supporting Financial review Operational review the Armys equipment repair in Canada.
The Land sector underlying revenue The Land sector continues to perform well grew 2.1% to 1,849.1 million 2017: in its chosen markets, providing critical Following our contract extension, last 1,811.7 million as Defence and South services to civil and military organisations summer, to provide critical asset support Africa performed well.
It remains focused on its core to British Forces Germany up to their constant exchange rates was 2.3% in the capabilities, providing vital support for its planned drawdown in March 2020, we period.
DSG is progressing well, with customers large-scale fleets of complex have now been awarded an extension to discussions to transition into an availability vehicles and equipment, and delivering our service delivery in Italy, supporting the based contract ongoing.
South Africa has high quality technical training to our European Support Group, in their role for benefited from improved commodity customers workforces.
Babcock Australia was awarded the pricing in the equipment business and Australian Defence Force ground support Defence continuing strong demand from its main equipment asset management services power customer.
In our Defence business, we have also contract, which is due to begin operations provided around 300 vehicles as part of in the first half of 2018 19.
Organic underlying operating profit at the Armys deployment in Estonia, constant exchange rates increased 1% to Our Defence Training business continues demonstrating our ability to meet 140.1 million 2017: 139.7 million.
to perform well, delivering over 20,000 changing demands.
We continued our Operating margin for the sector was training days to the British Army.
We work building the Warrior Capability broadly stable at 7.6% 2017: 7.7%.
There successfully concluded the benchmarking Sustainment Programme demonstration was some weakness in Rail as previously of the RSME PPP contract, and have vehicles for Lockheed Martin and were flagged as the Control Period 5 slows implemented the service transformation awarded a further years extension of down in anticipation of Control Period 6, which will provide the MOD with around maintenance to the Protected Mobility and some disruption in apprentice training 80 million of further efficiencies over Vehicle Fleet.
We have recruited and as the new Government levy regime is the rest of the contract.
trained two units of sponsored reserves, introduced.
This was largely offset by We continue to develop training who work for Babcock each day, but who performance in the South Africa business technology.
We have designed and can be deployed as soldiers by the British and the Royal School of Military delivered a 2 million virtual reality system Army.
This capability has been used as part Engineering RSME JV.
Mobile technology in Emergency Services fleets The demands placed upon our This secure new technology supports innovations including a stores the faster completion of jobs, barcoding system and the workshop Emergency Services customer vehicle fleets continue to grow as a result of benefiting customer fleet availability.
It also enables enhanced real-time increasing budgetary and operational By connecting our entire workforce challenges, demanding ever-faster fleet status reporting to customers and through technology we are able to improves our overall Fleet Management turn-around of maintenance activities.
drive overall benefits in performance, capability through improved Thanks to a series of innovative cost and operational efficiency across measurement of asset productivity, technological solutions, Babcocks Babcock-managed fleets.
This latest Mobile Maintenance Technicians initiative builds upon other recent are now able to manage their daily activities via 4G-enabled rugged tablets.
Repair information is entered directly into our Fleet Management system via an app, eliminating the need for paper job cards and employee timesheets.
Mobile Technicians are also able to request parts and additional repair activities without the need to pause repairs.
A built-in authorisation process ensures that all stock requests are logged automatically, reducing the administration burden across the organisation.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 42 Strategic report Governance statement Financials for the Electro-Mechanical training for future implementation that will deliver under its asset replacement programme.
Throughout the year, we have engaged contract and have started to use data and greater efficiencies for our customer analytics to support service improvements through better utilisation of the fleet.
with a number of international emergency services customers and in the year and drive further efficiencies.
Our close Emergency services and training relationship with the Royal Electrical and ahead we anticipate participating in competitive programmes to provide fleet Mechanical Engineers REME continues, We have continued to provide strong as we prepare for their move to the new management services outside the UK.
support and high levels of equipment Apprenticeship Standard for REME availability to UK emergency services In our civil training business, we were engineers later this year.
In successful in our bid to deliver training September, we were awarded a Our ALC joint venture, which provides services for the Project Management 12-month extension to our contract construction vehicles for the MOD, has Office of EDF Energys Hinkley Point C with the Metropolitan Police Service MPS, performed strongly, with high demand construction project.
We will provide ensuring continuation of service delivery for the service throughout the year.
We systems and assurance to ensure that until the MPS announces the preferred are working on a bid to bring together site personnel are suitably qualified bidder for its future fleet management the construction vehicle fleet and the and experienced to operate on this key contract later this year.
In parallel, mechanical handling fleet.
The contract engineering project, and will procure Babcock Vehicle Engineering formerly to deliver fleet services for the MODs and deliver related training.
Operational MacNeillie extended its contract with 17,000 administrative vehicles, Phoenix II, performance on our training contract for the MPS to provide vehicle conversions.
continues to progress, with the integration the London Fire Brigade has been strong Further progress has been made, assisting of the fleets in Germany, the rest of and we are in early discussions with London Fire Brigade in modernising Europe, and the MOD Military Police.
a range of other emergency services its fleet of vehicles and appliances Enhanced capabilities are being evaluated customers around their training needs, all of which are also impacted by the introduction of the Apprentice Levy.
Technology in simulator training Our engineering and technical training contracts continue to perform well, and In our training business we developed our concept can also be adapted we have seen encouraging account a virtual reality simulator to support to simulate any emergency response growth with some of our key customers, the blue light driver training work vehicle, and support the training such as Network Rail.
We won a contract we do with emergency services.
Our of blue light drivers anywhere in with Jaguar Land Rover for their technical technology experts took that training the world.
apprenticeship programme in the UK.
to a whole new level when they Its equipped with true to life We now train over 500 Jaguar Land Rover created a simulator with built-in cutting-edge technology and is apprentices each year across a range of haptic feedback and a 200 degree another example of Babcocks ability technical, commercial and manufacturing wraparound screen which is now used to design and create a fully flexible specialisms.
We see further potential to teach drivers in a safe and risk-free and portable product that reflects training opportunities with other UK learning zone.
and meets the changing needs of automotive sector customers.
Initially created to replicate the our Emergency Services, not just in Despite challenging weather conditions experience of driving a real fire engine, the UK but internationally.
throughout the winter, our fleet management team also delivered strong operational performance to our Heathrow airport customers, and is participating in competitive tenders to extend these relationships, with preferred bidder announcements expected during FY19.
In Australia, the Qantas ground support equipment contract became operational on 1 July 2017, and the focus is now on rolling out new systems and processes to improve availability and performance.
Our Airports baggage operations business had a second year of record performance and has successfully secured a two-year extension to the Heathrow baggage Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Operational review: Land Strategy in action, continued system maintenance contract.
In addition to delivering baggage operations at Heathrow and Schiphol, our team has also delivered baggage upgrade projects at a number of major UK airports and secured new contracts at Heathrow, Gatwick and Birmingham.
Networks and equipment support In Network Engineering, our Rail business continues to experience a slowdown as we approach the end of Network Rails Control Period 5 in March 2019.
We will begin bidding for Control Period 6 shortly.
Our on-track joint venture SB Rail successfully rebid a National Plant contract, with our share worth around 70 million, which will see its fleet of machines contracted until 2025.
Our work on Translinks seven-year signalling and telecommunications London Fire Brigade training contract is progressing well, with Babcock manages a portfolio of over Our indoor rig facility is a true to life further framework opportunities being 250 courses and trains circa 24,000 environment where we can be explored in Northern Ireland.
Our ABC delegates each year through a 25-year confident we can deliver the best joint venture successfully completed the contract with the London Fire Brigade, training courses covering a whole host electrification of Scotlands busiest rail We have two purpose-built dedicated of crisis situations.
route between Edinburgh and Glasgow training centres in London, and also as part of an alliance with Network Rail We have been delivering our new operate out of a number of fire stations and Morgan Sindall.
Firefighter Development FFD trainee across the capital.
programme for over three years and The Power business delivered a full At Beckton, a three-storey firehouse have trained close to 300 trainees.
programme of work, including three simulates real fires within a number of A combination of our blended learning major overhead line refurbishment different scenarios.
As the number of approach and highly skilled trainers projects for National Grid and a number fire related incidents has fallen over has seen a significant improvement of complex schemes for Western Power time within London, so this has placed in the pass rate.
Tenders won during autumn increased importance on providing will develop into an 18-month and winter mean a substantially full high quality, realistic training to apprenticeship programme from order book for the coming year, with the Londons firefighters.
Beckton also September 2018, with circa 300 focus already on the pipeline for FY20 offers an Urban Search and Rescue trainees per year over the next and beyond.
USAR facility, consolidating USAR three years.
elements under one roof, including South Africa breaching and breaking, shoring, lifting All of the African businesses, with the and moving, technical search, line exception of our transmission line rescue and confined space.
operation, have grown significantly during the year with underlying revenue growth being 21% over prior year in Talent Development programme, and to Sustainability local currency.
The stand out performer enable those with potential to develop in We have continued to invest in our has been our Equipment business that a structured, formal and supported way.
people through initiatives to develop has grown 38% over prior year on the During the year we launched a First Line talent, recognise achievements and back of market share won and new Leader Programme to enhance our First increase diversity across our business.
The power generation Line Leader skills and maximise the business has grown 16% over prior We implemented a new Talent potential in their teams.
year and the truck business has met Management Framework to identify the budget expectations.
highest performers with potential for our Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 44 Strategic report Governance statement Financials DSG breakout for Estonia When equipment was required at Just over 300 vehicles, ranging from deployment by the combined Army short notice for NATO operations in Challenger tanks to quad bikes, were and Babcock team, working in close Estonia and Poland, the Army called made ready in only five days and partnership together.
upon Babcock to deploy vehicles from delivered to nine locations across the At Ashchurch, Babcocks Receipt, the high readiness fleet maintained UK.
Each vehicle had to be inspected, Inspection, Issue and Storage RIIS in Ashchurch.
possibly repaired and prepared for team of over 200 people maintains and repairs a vital fleet of over 7,000 vehicles and pieces of equipment, ensuring they are ready to meet future demand.
The event successfully demonstrated the viability and practicality of holding large numbers of vehicles at high readiness in specialist storage conditions, whilst simultaneously supporting the move to Central Europe of several hundred British military personnel.
Army units received the right equipment, correctly configured, at the right time, easing the preparations for a major deployment.
We remain focused on attracting, We continue to focus on improving our Outlook employing and developing future health and safety procedures and systems Our specialist experience and technical talent.
Our graduate programme to ensure that everything reasonably capability in delivering critical fleet was again a finalist in the Institute practicable is being done so everyone management and technical training of Student Employers Development affected by our operations goes home solutions place us in a strong position awards, in the Strategic Alignment safe every day.
We have seen a reduction to capitalise on the outsourcing category.
Recognising the valuable in the over three-day accident frequency opportunities that are emerging, both contribution our graduates make to rate of 20% and the all accident frequency in the UK and internationally.
the sector, we held the first alumni rate of 15% compared to last year.
In Defence, we expect our strong working programme which helps to continue their Implementing a structured approach to relationship with the UK MOD to continue professional development.
We also work the safety lens survey process has seen a as the next generation of programmes closely with schools to promote STEM 26% increase in the number of staff being is determined, and we have identified activities our graduates have all consulted on health and safety across the equipment support opportunities for become STEM Ambassadors.
These consultation sessions European defence customers.
We In Australia we joined a procurement produced valuable feedback which has expect Holdfast joint venture profits in enabled a sector-focused improvement initiative with the Indigenous Defence 2018 19 to step down by 5-10 million.
Consortium which supports Aboriginal programme to be implemented to drive In the civil sector we will continue common standards.
and Torres Strait Islander businesses as to expand our footprint with key UK part of the national agenda on customers for equipment support and Reconciliation in Australia.
training services and we are pursuing several similar opportunities in European markets.
2018 19 underlying revenue is expected to be flat with stable margins.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 45
