Cyber & Intelligence Segmental review continued Intelligence & Security comprises the three Applied Intelligence provides data intelligence Cyber & Intelligence comprises US-based Intelligence & Security businesses.
solutions which enable governments and the US-based Intelligence commercial organisations to defend against Air Force Solutions focuses on providing the national-scale threats, protect their networks &Security business and US Air Force and its combatant commands and data against sophisticated attacks and with innovative solutions to help modernise, UK-headquartered Applied operate successfully in cyberspace.
Our solutions maintain, test, and cyber-harden aircraft, are delivered as licensed technologies, Intelligence business, and radars, missile systems, and mission  subscriptions, through applications that detect and deter threats covers the Groups cyber outsourced managed services, and via tonational security.
consulting and systems integration projects.
security, secure government, Integrated Defense Solutions provides the Government is focused on delivering and commercial and financial USArmy, Navy, and federal civilian markets nationalsecurity and intelligence solutions with systems engineering, integration, and securityactivities.
tothe UK government and allied international sustainment services for C4ISR systems and governments.
The business alsodelivers enterprise IT networks that enhance mission enterprise-level data and digital services effectiveness.
Our solutions are deployed toUKgovernment departments.
across platforms and networks in the air, maritime, land and cyber domains.
Financial Services delivers anti-fraud and regulatory compliance solutions to banking Intelligence Solutions provides innovative and insurance customers across Europe, mission-enabling solutions and services NorthAmerica, the Middle East, Africa toenhance the collection, analysis, and andAsia-Pacific.
processing of data across the US civilian andmilitary intelligence communities.
Technology & Commercial provides security Ourbusiness also develops and deploys advisory and managed security services to high-assurance networks that facilitate the arange of commercial customers in the secure sharing of data amongst intelligence UKand North America.
agencies in support of national security.
Sales by business % Sales analysis: Intelligence & Security % Sales analysis: Applied Intelligence % Applied Intelligence Intelligence Air Force Technology Intelligence & Security Solutions Solutions & Commercial Government 30% 70% 40% 2 7% 1 7% 6 2% Financial Services Integrated Defense Solutions 21% 33% BAE Systems 48 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Employees 10,300 Operational and strategickey points Intelligence & Security Awarded additional change proposals worth $55m 43m to support the New awards valued at approximately USAirForce ICBM Integration Support $320m 251m to provide motion-imagery Contractor programme analysis, training and research support services to the US intelligence community Applied Intelligence Secured a five-year, $90m 71m 2017 restructuring programme completed, USNavycontract to provide engineering returning the business to break-even and technical support for fixed, airborne and mobile intelligence collection platforms Our strategy in action Collaborating on cloud Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 3 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 2017 2017 2 2 2018 restated 2018 restated In April, we announced the first in Sales KPI 1,678m 1,818m Revenue 1,678m 1,818m aseries of strategic collaboration Underlying EBITA 111m 58m Operating profit loss 59m 361 m KPI agreements to market the first Return on sales 6.6% 3.2% Return on revenue 3.5% 19.9 % scalable, hybrid cloud solution Operating business Cash flow from ofitskind to the US government.
KPI cash flow 85m 116m operating activities 96m 127m The federated secure cloud, developed 1 Order intake KPI 1,802m 1,859m by BAE Systems and Dell EMC, is 1 Order backlog 1.9bn 2.1bn designed from the ground up to meet both the mission needs and security In aggregate sales were 5% lower on a Cash conversion of EBITA for the year was requirements for any US intelligence constant currency basis at $2.2bn 1.7bn.
community, Department of Defense, or The US Intelligence & Security business federal civilian government organisation.
In aggregate, order backlog reduced sawa 4% decrease, largely as a result to$2.4bn 1.9bn.
In the US Intelligence The federated secure cloud has the ofthecustomers decision to end ashared &Security business, order backlog was flexibility to deploy to public, on-premise ITservices environment contract.
Inthe adjusted for theclosed out service contract.
or hybrid cloud environments, to include Applied Intelligence business, sales declined smaller tactical deployments.
The by 9% as pursuit of sales growth was solution enables rapid deployment of tempered to enhance profit performance.
secure cloud services without the costly Despite the sales reduction, the aggregate delay of long security engineering and return on sales for the sector was improved authorisation cycles.
In the US business return on sales Additional market collaborations with was similar to last year at 9.0%.
The Applied Splunk Inc. and Flexera reflect our Intelligence business returned to break-even strategy todrive the best commercial as the cost reduction actions under the 2017 cloud technologies on the market to restructuring programme delivered to plan.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Prior year comparatives have been restated upon the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts withCustomers.
See note 37 to the Group accounts fordetails regarding the restatement.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 49 Segmental review continued Operational performance Integrated Defense Solutions We were selected for Indefinite Delivery, Our US Navy Strategic Systems Program Indefinite Quantity contracts to pursue Intelligence & Security experts are executing the third year of a newwork in support of the US government.
Air Force Solutions five-year, $368m 289m sole-source contract Twoof the contracts are single-award, with We were awarded engineering change to support weapons systems on board atotal potential value of more than $150m proposals valued at more than $55m 43m USOhio and UK Vanguard Class submarines, 118m to support the rapid integration under the US Air Force Intercontinental as well as future Ohio Class replacement andsustainment of command, control, BallisticMissile Integration Support Contractor andUK Dreadnought Class submarines.
communications, reconnaissance, and combat programme.
The awards increased the total systems for the Naval Air Warfare Center lifecycle value of the programme to $972m In October, we secured a five-year, $106m Aircraft Division.
Our work includes programme 83m contract to continue providing logistics which has a maximum value of $72m 57m, management, systems engineering, and information technology support services we will compete for future task orders to integration and testing, sustainment, to the US Navys Strategic Systems Program.
provide equipment modification, system andcyber defence.
Our team provides logistics support for the safety work, test bed operations, and USand UK Navies Trident II submarines, To support US Air Force testing and technicalservices tosupport air traffic USsubmarine support facilities and US Ohio trainingoperations, we were awarded controland landing systems on ships and Class guided-missile submarines.
contracts totalling just over $58m 46m atUS Navy facilities.
in2018 to provide a proprietary electronic In November, we earned a five-year, $79m Intelligence Solutions warfare electronic attack solution.
62m contract to continue maintaining and New task order contracts valued at operating multiple electronic, communication, Our business earned a position on a new approximately $320m 251m were won and computing platforms for the US Navy.
nine-year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite toprovide motion-imagery analysis, training, Theprogramme, which supports the Naval Quantity contract with the US Department and research support services to the Computer and Telecommunications Area ofDefense, which positions us to bid on USintelligence community.
Master Station, Pacific, provides 24 7 mission upcoming research, development, testing, support for ship-to-shore, shore-to-aircraft, The US Army awarded the business a andevaluation task orders to support the and shore-to-shore long-range four-year, $100m 79m contract to provide future needs of the US military across physical communications systems.
technical, functional, and general support to and digital domains.
The contract affords us enhance the overall situational awareness and opportunities to leverage our investments in Also in the maritime domain, we received a training of troops deployed around the world.
artificial intelligence and machine learning.
five-year, $90m 71m US Navy contract to continue providing engineering and technical A US Department of Defense contract to We secured a three-year, $37m 29m support for a variety of fixed, airborne, and continue providing mission-critical intelligence contract to continue providing the US Air mobile intelligence collection platforms.
analysis support for forward-deployed soldiers Force with obsolescence management Thebusiness also secured a four-year, $44m was revised by the customer to a total lifecycle supportfor which we have been the 35m contract to provide munitions handling value of more than $110m 86m over an providerof choicesince 1991. and management support for the US Navys 18-month period.
We secured a five-year, $73m 57m contract to expand our analysis portfolio in support of the US intelligence community.
BAE Systems 50 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action Data analytics trial assisting child Applied Intelligence Technology & Commercial protection work Applied Intelligence delivered a full year The business has won a number of break-even position as a result of significant  Managed Security benefits from the restructuring activity Services deals with UK and US commercial undertaken at the end of 2017.
This customers in the year, facilitated by investment improvement in profitability has been in the product offering to enhance customer In partnership with UK child protection delivered through removing surplus delivery experience.
We continue to see high levels and law enforcement agencies, we capacity, relocating roles to lower cost ofdemand forthe outsourcing of security undertook atrial to implement our international delivery centres, exiting certain monitoring through specialist operations unprofitable markets and improving the centres, driven inthe main by the increasing data analytics technology into the organisational structure.
Following the importance companies are placing on child protection system.
embedding of the organisational changes, mitigating ever-increasing cyber risks.
The High profile cases of child abuse and thesecond half of the year has seen an levelof customer churn with US small and neglect in the UK have highlighted poor increase in headcount and focused investment medium-sized businesses has increased in data sharing as a key reason why abuse initiatives to drive higher levels ofgrowth in theyear, contributing to reduced revenue and neglect is not identified sooner.
Through predictive analytics and Government visualisation with our NetReveal The Government business has delivered software, we created an innovative, Looking forward growth in orders from key accounts across joined-up view of risk around vulnerable Forward-looking information for the UKgovernment customers as demand for children, driving a safer, fairer and faster Cyber &Intelligence reporting segment ournational security and intelligence offerings response to concerns raised about isprovided later in this report.
There has been an increased childrens welfare.
focus on investment in our people throughout The project took three years worth Segmental the year to enhance capability required to 64 looking forward ofdisparate, historical data sets and support specialist customer requirements analysed them in just four hours, while also improving employee retention allowing practitioners to research inacompetitive labour market.
casessignificantly faster and presented Financial Services arich and complete analysis of the The business has continued to see steady information in a visually engaging way.
demand for anti-fraud and regulatory The next stage will see the technology compliance products across multi-national move beyond the successful proof of financial institutions.
Strong customer loyalty concept to an operational trial, where has been maintained through a number of the true extent of the benefits can be product upgrades with established key evaluated in a live setting.
Investment in product engineering, primarily NetReveal and Managed Security Group strategic More online Services, has increased in the yearto drive 18 framework baesystems.
com higher levels of demand in 2019 and beyond.
Emerging product offerings, such as broader data and digital services, are also proving tobein demand.
