BAE Systems has strong, established positions Our key products supplying defence equipment, electronics and services andservices, as well as cyber, intelligence and security solutions for governments.
Typhoon and Hawk F-35 Lightning II design Unmanned and future manufacture and andmanufacture air system capabilities capability development Design and manufacture of sub-assemblies Development of future air system capabilities, inthe UK, including the aft fuselage and including joint investment with the UK Manufacture of major Typhoon assemblies empennage.
Provision of equipment in the government and industry in next-generation forEuropean partner nations and other US, including the electronic warfare suite.
Aircraft assembly for the BAE Systems has a significant workshare onthe has been launched insupport of the UK Royal Air Force and Royal Saudi Air Force.
Combat Air Strategy, announced in July.
Supply of Typhoon and Hawk aircraft with support and training package to Qatar.
Expansion of the capabilities of the aircraft.
Complex warships Defence electronics Commercial avionics equipment Design and manufacture of two 65,000-tonne Design, manufacture and support of avionics aircraft carriers, five Offshore Patrol Vessels, and equipment across a range of US and other allied Design, manufacture and support of avionics Type 26 frigates for the Royal Navy.
Thefirst nations military aircraft programmes, including equipment across multiple commercial aircraft Type 26 is expected to enter service inthe a leadership position in the electronic warfare platforms, including engine and flight controls, mid-2020s.
Contract signed with the Australian market.
and cabin and cockpit systems, together with government that provides the framework for aftermarket support services.
BAE Systems is a the design and manufacture ofHunter Class leading supplier of engine controls for GE, and frigates.
is a major supplier of flight control electronics for Boeing and other aircraft platforms.
BAE Systems 04 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We also have a growing position in adjacent commercial markets, including avionics and cyber security.
Submarines Combat vehicles Air support and training Design and manufacture of seven Astute Upgrade of tracked vehicles, including Bradley Provision of support to operational capability, Classnuclear-powered attack submarines Fighting Vehicles: design and manufacture of including maintenance, support and training forthe Royal Navy.
The first three Astute the M109 self-propelled howitzer and for Typhoon aircraft in service with the UK, Classsubmarines are in operational service with Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle: and Saudi Arabian and Omani air forces.
Under the the Royal Navy, with the remaining fourboats development of light combat vehicles under Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme, in build.
The final boat is expected toenter the Mobile Protected Firepower programme delivery of contracts for manpower, logistics service in the middle of the next decade.
Manufacture of amphibious and training, training aircraft including Hawk Design and manufacture of four Dreadnought vehicles for the US Marine Corps and and upgrades to Tornado aircraft in Saudi Class nuclear-powered submarines to carry the international customers.
Provision of support for Hawk aircraft UKs Trident ballisticmissiles.
Manufacture of and support of the CV90 and BvS10 combat in service in 14 countries and a range of the first Dreadnought Class boat, Dreadnought, vehicles for international customers.
Vehicle sustainment services for the F-35 Lightning II commenced in 2016. upgrade and support to the British Army.
aircraft in the Europe and Pacific regions.
Weapon systems Naval ship repair Cyber security and munitions andsupport Delivery of a broad range of services to enablethe US military and government Design and manufacture of naval gun Provision of naval ship repair and modernisation torecognise, manage and defeat threats.
systems, munitions, torpedoes, radars, services in the US and UK, together with Support to UK and other government agencies navalcommand and combat systems, support to the navies of the US, UK and in their intelligence missions.
Provision of artillerysystems, missile launchers and, Australia.
In the US, BAE Systems has facilities defence-grade solutions forcommercial cyber through a 37.5% interest in MBDA, missiles located on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, applications.
BAE Systems also aswell as in Hawaii, to include expanded manages and operates complex ammunition drydock facilities in the San Diego shipyard plant operations for the US Army to produce tosupport the US Navys increased focus insensitive munitions and propellant grains.
