Strategic Report Review of Investments Start Today Top Ten Holdings 2.7% of total assets SoftBank The Japanese e-commerce market continues to expand rapidly 5.7% of total assets and Start Today has emerged as the leading online apparel retailer.
SoftBank is a diversified company run by a dynamic entrepreneur, The companys shopping mall style website is aimed at younger, Masayoshi Son.
The group now encompasses mobile telecoms more fashion conscious consumers and handles items from businesses in Japan and the US, a significant holding in Alibaba numerous brands.
The huge variety of garments and accessories the fast growing Chinese e-commerce company, a stake in Yahoo on offer has allowed Start Today to achieve a dominant position Japan a diverse internet advertising company, Arm holdings the UK within its niche market.
The large number of site members in turn technology company acquired last year and the Vision fund, where is attracting more brands to the site, creating a virtuous circle.
The SoftBank holds 30% of a huge venture fund which it runs focused expanding scale of operations has allowed the company to on worldwide technology investment.
The underlying businesses develop a strong distribution network which facilitates next day continue to grow, some very rapidly: we believe Mr Son to be an delivery.
The company continues to innovate in order to enhance excellent allocator of capital: and the discount that the shares trade its appeal with customers.
It recently introduced the Zozosuit at to the value of the underlying holdings remains significant.
which allows customers to obtain precise measurements and have clothing made to fit them exactly.
Online penetration in fashion SBI retail remains low in Japan compared to other developed markets, 3.6% of total assets giving Start Today a very large growth opportunity.
SBI is a leading internet focused financial services company in Japan.
Its principal operations are online brokerage, internet Sysmex banking, online life insurance and venture capital.
In the 2.5% of total assets companys own words, the core potential is utilising opportunities Sysmex is a global developer and supplier of diagnostics provided by the powerful price-destruction forces of the Internet instruments.
It enjoys a dominant position in the diagnostics of and developing financial services that further enhance benefits to blood disorders thanks to its superior technology.
Whilst the business has various complexities the the company will continue to enjoy strong growth in its core founder, Mr Kitao, has succeeded in building a company with a business, we are very excited about Sysmexs new growth very good reputation among its customers.
A combination of the companys strength in been alert to the opportunities presented by blockchain the automation of complex blood tests with either acquired technology and made significant investments into the area that in in-licensed or in-house developed technologies has a good time may be of significant value.
chance to lead to new and differentiated products.
Outsourcing 3.0% of total assets Outsourcing is run by a dynamic entrepreneur, Haruhiko Doi, who has built a diverse group which provides outsourcing services for manufacturing, IT and civil engineering companies.
Regulatory change is providing new opportunities for staff placement and is likely to lead to consolidation in the industry.
At the same time, the labour market in Japan has become tighter, increasing demand for Outsourcings services.
The company is also expanding overseas and sales contribution from its overseas business continues to rise strongly.
The founder-CEO of Outsourcing retains a sizeable stake in the company, aligning his interests with other investors.
CyberAgent 2.8% of total assets CyberAgent is an internet holding company with exposure to internet advertising, online gaming social media and internet Start Today start-up investments.
The company is benefiting from a shift in Zozosuit with body measuring smartphone app.
advertising budgets to the internet, and is currently experiencing Start Today.
rapid growth in its mobile advertising business.
The founderPresident Mr Fujita has resolutely pursued domestic growth opportunities, including making significant investment in a new online streaming video service.
We remain upbeat on the companys growth prospects in its core online advertising business and are encouraged by managements long-term decision making.
12 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Sony Virtual reality gaming.
M3 Inpex 2.5% of total assets 2.3% of total assets M3 provides online marketing support for pharmaceutical Inpex is Japans largest oil and gas exploration and production companies.
It runs a medical website with an interactive portal company.
Its most important development asset is the Ichthys where doctors can log in, source information and pick up targeted Liquefied Natural Gas LNG field off the coast of Australia which, messages about relevant new drug developments.
This online though majority controlled by Inpex, will be operated by Total.
marketing is much cheaper for the pharma companies than We feel that Ichthys has scope to expand production once in face-to-face contact, and also allows for more efficient timeoperation with minimal additional investment and this will management by doctors.
Growth has been very rapid in Japan, substantially improve the fields economics.
Although there have where M3 is now the dominant platform.
Although still a relatively been some delays to the completion date, the company is in the small part of group revenues, M3 has also built promising process of starting production which we believe will lead to positions in the US and selected other markets with potential for substantial earnings growth.
The company also supports and Sony invests in early stage medical technologies such as genome 2.3% of total assets diagnostics, cancer tests and A. I. medical technologies.
Sony is a major owner of game, music and film content.
The Rakuten PlayStation has established itself as the leading console and 2.5% of total assets platform for networked games and is a front-runner in virtual Rakuten is an internet conglomerate with particular strengths in reality VR gaming.
Through Sony Music and EMI, the company is e-commerce and online financial services.
It started with a the worlds largest music publisher and, through Sony Pictures, successful online shopping mall called Ichiba and from that base Columbia and TriStar, a major film producer.
Growing demand it has developed an ecosystem, particularly in financial businesses.
from different and competing platforms for Sonys film and music Successes include now running Japans largest credit card content is increasing potential revenue streams and the underlying business and serious online banking and brokerage operations.
The company has made considerable The company has decided to become a Mobile Network Operator progress in restructuring its consumer electronics business and is MNO in Japan which will necessitate significant spending but investing in its areas of strength, notably content and image where our research suggests that there is significant potential for sensors, where it enjoys a dominant global position.
The dynamic founder, Hiroshi Mikitani, continues to own very positive about recent management changes, most notably well over a third of the shares outstanding closely aligning the the appointment as CEO of Kenichiro Yoshida, who previously as interests of management and shareholders.
CFO directed the companys restructuring and repositioning.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 13
