Governance Report Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Directors Joanna Pitman Joanna Pitman was appointed a Director on 28 June 2018.
Nick Bannerman She read Japanese Studies at Cambridge University and speaks Nick Bannerman was appointed a Director in 2003 and became Japanese.
She was Tokyo Bureau Chief of The Times from Chairman in 2014.
He is managing director Knitwear of 1989 to 1994 and for the past eight years she has worked as a Johnstons of Elgin, Scotlands largest textile company.
corporate research analyst focused on Japan.
She is vice chair Established in 1797, Johnstons is a fully vertical operation of the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation, Advisor to the UK specialising in cashmere, with sales offices worldwide, including Japan Young Science Workshops, a director of the John Kobal Tokyo.
Foundation and UK Chair of SAIDIA.
Paul Dimond CMG All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee and Paul Dimond was appointed a Director in 2006 and is the Senior with the exception of Mr NAC Bannerman, all are members of Independent Director.
In HM Diplomatic Service until 2005, he the Audit Committee.
served for 16 years in Japan, working in both Tokyo and Osaka, and was Commercial Counsellor from 1989 to 1993.
He had a Managers and Secretaries senior British public service role in three continents, his last The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a appointment being HM Ambassador to the Philippines.
He is wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative senior adviser of DAKS Simpson Group plc and DAKS Limited, Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretary.
director of the Anglo-Netherlands Society and the chairman of the Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated investment Torch Trophy Trust, deputy chairman of Bond Street and Mayfair management services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co Group, managing trustee of Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal and member of the executive committee, The Pilgrims.
firm Baillie Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management since 1908.
Keith Falconer Keith Falconer was appointed a Director in July 2014 and became Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in Chairman of the Audit Committee in November 2014.
He was the UK and currently manage nine investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford with Martin Currie Investment Management Ltd from 1979 until also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, his retirement in 2003 and between 1982 and 1987, he headed together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, up the Japanese Equity team.
He is Chairman of Impax Asset charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and Management Group plc and Adelphi Distillery Ltd.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie as a Chartered Accountant.
Gifford total around 178 billion at 23 October 2018.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment David Kidd management firms in the UK, with 44 partners and a staff of David Kidd was appointed a Director in 2015.
He has 25 years around 1,000. investment experience in the City, mainly in the role of chief The manager of Baillie Gifford Japan is Matthew Brett, who took investment officer.
For the past nine years he has been a director over as portfolio manager on 1 May 2018.
Matthew joined Baillie of The Law Debenture Pension Trust Corporation PLC where he Gifford in 2003 and is an investment manager of the Japanese All is an independent professional trustee.
He is also a director of Cap strategy and lead manager of the Japanese Income Growth The Golden Charter Trust and Mid Wynd International Investment strategy.
Praveen Kumar was appointed as deputy manager on Trust PLC.
Praveen joined Baillie Gifford in 2008 and has been an Martin Paling investment manager on the Japanese Equities team since 2008.
Martin Paling was appointed a Director in 2008.
He was an Baillie Gifford & Co Limited and Baillie Gifford & Co are both investment director of Bentley Capital Europe Ltd between 1996 authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
From 1993 to 1996 he was deputy chief investment officer of Baring Asset Management Asia Ltd in Hong Kong.
Prior to that he worked for James Capel & Co, where he was chief international investment strategist and James Capel Far East Ltd in Hong Kong where he directed institutional sales.
Previously, he was a partner and head of Singapore Malaysia sales at Montagu, Loebl, Stanley & Co.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 19
