Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and Financial Statements of the Company for the year to 31 August maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the 2018.
Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
Following the internal reorganisation at The Bank of Corporate Governance New York, the custody function is also now undertaken by The The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 23 to 25 and Bank of New York Mellon International Limited the Custodian forms part of this Report.
having previously being delegated to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV London Branch.
Manager and Company Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Directors Gifford & Co, has been appointed as the Companys Alternative Information about the Directors, including their relevant Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretaries.
experience, can be found on page 19.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management Ms Pitman was appointed to the Board on 28 June 2018 and is and services to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Investment Management required to seek election by shareholders at the Annual General Agreement between the AIFM and the Company sets out the meeting.
The Directors believe her considerable experience and matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance knowledge enhances the Board and recommend her election to with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions shareholders.
The Management Agreement is terminable on not less than 6 months notice or on shorter notice in certain Japan Trust moved into the FTSE 250 in March 2018 and the circumstances.
Compensation would only be payable if Corporate Governance Code rules require that all Directors be termination occurred prior to the expiry of the notice period.
subject to annual election by shareholders.
As a result, all Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, with the on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers exception of Mr Dimond, who will stand down after the conclusion that maintaining a relatively low ongoing charges ratio is in the best of the Annual General Meeting, and Ms Pitman as explained interests of the shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that above, offer themselves for re-election.
Following formal calculating the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the Board to exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
The considers that their performance continues to be effective and annual management fee is 0.95% on the first 50m of net assets, that they remain committed to the Company.
The Board therefore 0.65% on the next 200m of net assets and 0.55% on the recommends their re-election to shareholders.
remaining net assets, calculated and payable quarterly.
The Board also considers that Mr Bannerman and Mr Paling The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management remain independent notwithstanding having served on the Board Engagement Committee.
The Board considers the Companys for more than nine years, as explained on page 23. investment management and secretarial arrangements for the Director Indemnification and Insurance Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted The Company has entered into qualifying third party deeds of annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds which were topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to in force during the year to 31 August 2018 and up to the date of handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the approval of this report, cover any liabilities that may arise to a third results achieved to date: investment performance: the party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach administrative services provided by the Secretaries and the quality of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of of information provided: the marketing efforts undertaken by the liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any Managers: and the relationship with the Managers.
costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which Following the most recent review it is the opinion of the Directors the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In AIFM and the delegation of investment management services to addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent Baillie Gifford & Co, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of that it is recovered from another person.
the Company and shareholders as a whole.
This is due to the The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
strength and quality of the investment management team, the Managers commitment to the investment trust sector and the Conflicts of Interest comprehensive efficiency of the secretarial and administrative Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the functions.
Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances Depositary surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board AIFM Directive, the AIFM must appoint a Depositary to the authorisation is for a period of one year.
On 3 April 2018, the legal entity of the Depositary lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise changed from BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited to to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited following an the interests of the Company.
internal reorganisation at The Bank of New York.
The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the 20 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Resolution 13, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks to Dividend provide the Directors with authority to issue shares or sell shares As a result of a net revenue return of 2,234,000 the revenue held in treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis for cash i. e. without reserve has moved from a deficit to a surplus.
To ensure first offering such shares to existing shareholders pro-rata to their investment trust status is maintained, the Company is required existing holdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of to make a dividend distribution and the Board recommends 455,749.62 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share a final dividend of 0.60p per ordinary share.
If approved, the capital of the Company as at 23 October 2018.
The authorities recommended final dividend will be paid on 14 December 2018 sought in Resolutions 12 and 13 will continue until the conclusion to shareholders on the register at the close of business on of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2019 or on the expiry 30 November 2018.
The ex-dividend date is 29 November 2018. of 15 months from the passing of this Resolution, if earlier.
Share Capital Such authorities will only be used to issue shares or re-sell shares Capital Structure from treasury at a premium to net asset value and only when the The Companys capital structure consists of 90,459,925 ordinary Directors believe that it would be in the best interests of the shares of 5p each at 31 August 2018 2017 83,879,925.
The Directors believe that the ability to buy There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of back shares at a discount and re-sell them or issue new shares the Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights at a premium are useful tools in smoothing supply and demand.
attached to any of the shares.
During the year to 31 August 2018 the Company issued, in aggregate, 6,580,000 shares at a premium to net asset value on Capital Entitlement 41 separate occasions at an average price of 805.16 pence per On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the share raising proceeds of 53,086,000.
Between 1 September and surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion 23 October 2018, the Company issued a further 690,000 shares at to their shareholdings.
a premium to net asset value raising proceeds of 5,715,000.
No shares were held in treasury as at 23 October 2018.
Voting Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is entitled Market Purchases of Own Shares to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for At the last Annual General Meeting the Company was granted every share held.
authority to purchase up to 12,764,723 ordinary shares equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital, such authority to expire at Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are seeking found on pages 50 and 51. shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew Major Interests in the Companys Shares the authority to make market purchases up to 13,663,373 ordinary shares representing approximately 14.99% of the No of ordinary Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of the 5p shares held at % of Name 31 August 2018 issue Resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019.
Old Mutual plc indirect 4,719,268 5.2 No shares were bought back during the year under review and no Brewin Dolphin Limited indirect 4,043,892 4.5 shares are held in treasury.
Rathbone Brothers PLC indirect 3,412,614 3.8 The principal reasons for share buy-backs are: There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys i to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by shares intimated up to 23 October 2018. purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset Share Issuance Authority value: and At the last Annual General Meeting, the Directors were granted ii to address any imbalance between the supply of and the authority to issue shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of demand for the Companys shares that results in a discount 1,419,248.75 and to issue shares or sell shares held in treasury of the quoted market price to the published net asset value on a non-pre-emptive basis for cash up to an aggregate nominal per share.
These authorities are due to expire at The Company may hold bought-back shares in treasury and the Annual General Meeting on 6 December 2018. then: Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks to i sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent renew the Directors general authority to issue shares up to an under the Companies Act 2006 : or aggregate nominal amount of 1,519,165.41.
This amount represents 33.33% of the Companys total ordinary share capital ii cancel the shares or any of them.
in issue at 23 October 2018 and meets institutional guidelines.
All buy-backs will initially be held in treasury.
Shares will only be No issue of ordinary shares will be made pursuant to the resold from treasury at a premium to net asset value per ordinary authorisation in Resolution 12 which would effectively alter the share.
control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders The Company shall not be entitled to exercise the voting rights in general meeting.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 21 Governance Report In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Disclosure of Information to Auditor the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the The Directors confirm that, so far as each of the Directors is exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London the steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the aware of that information.
highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Independent Auditor Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Following the conclusion of the formal audit tender process Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy back held during the financial year ending 31 August 2017, the programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments proposed appointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor was approved by No.
2273 2003. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 30 November 2017.
The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to continue in office and in The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid will be accordance with section 489 and section 491 1 of the Companies 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines Act 2006 resolutions concerning their re-appointment and established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
drawn to Resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would Post Balance Sheet Events result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the The Directors confirm that there have been no significant post remaining shareholders and if it is considered in the best interests Balance Sheet events up to 23 October 2018. of shareholders generally.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Fee Limit All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors fees The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to may not exceed 150,000 per annum in aggregate, or such larger report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any amount as may be agreed by the Company by ordinary other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act resolution.
The Board is seeking shareholders approval at the 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. forthcoming AGM to increase the aggregate limit, which was last increased in 2010, to 200,000 per annum to accommodate the Bribery Act possibility of a temporary increase in the number of Directors as a The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is result of Board refreshment and with a view to creating suitable committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
headroom for future increases in fee levels.
Your attention is The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have drawn to Resolution 15 in the Notice of the Annual General policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Criminal Finances Act 2017 Articles of Association The Company has a commitment to zero tolerance towards the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Recommendation Continuation of the Company The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the The Companys Articles of Association give shareholders the right Annual General Meeting to be in the best interests of the to vote annually at the Annual General Meeting of the Company Company and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously on whether to continue the Company.
The Directors wish to draw recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of them, as they your attention to Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General intend to do where possible in respect of their own beneficial Meeting, which proposes that the Company be continued until holdings of shares which amount, in aggregate, to 57,372 shares, the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
representing approximately 0.06% of the current issued share capital of the Company.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, bank borrowings and debtors and On behalf of the Board creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and Nick AC Bannerman purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The financial Chairman risk management objectives and policies arising from its financial 24 October 2018 instruments and the exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in note 18 to the Financial Statements.
