Strategic Report Managers Report potential outcomes.
Growth stalwarts are companies where Philosophy growth is less rapid but more predictable, whilst those As noted by the Chairman, this year we have had a change of categorised as special situations are companies whose recent portfolio manager for the first time in many years.
Consequently, performance has not been good but where we see a reason to we thought it would be opportune briefly to restate our believe that improvements are underway.
stocks are those whose earnings do not rise every year but where We believe in genuinely long-term growth investing.
This means we expect the earnings to be higher from one cycle to the next.
maximising returns by only investing in companies in which we The mix of the four different styles of growth will change have real conviction rather than being distracted by an index.
It somewhat over the years but it seems inevitable that our positive means investing where there are opportunities regardless of the approach to investing will result in a high weighting towards size of the company: resulting in a bias towards smaller companies, secular growth.
which often have the best growth prospects, but being openPerformance is primarily driven by individual company share minded to larger ones where they meet our criteria.
It also means prices so we think it is most meaningful to list the top ten and holding companies for long time periods so that our clients benefit bottom ten contributors to performance over one and five years.
from the significant increases in business value that can occur over Once again we can see the asymmetric nature of stock returns: many years in growth companies.
which means that a good idea can do much more to help returns Baillie Gifford is a partnership with a sole focus on asset than a bad idea can hinder them.
Over the last year the largest management.
This structure means that we are resilient to contributor to performance SBI delivered more than double the external pressures and answerable only to our clients.
It provides performance that the worst Rakuten subtracted.
Over five years the stability that we need to be able to invest for the long haul.
each of the top ten contributors individually delivered more Baillie Gifford Japan Trust launched in 1981 and in all those years performance than the worst subtracted.
Therefore we continue to there have been only two previous portfolio managers.
believe that it is important for us to focus on the upside potential We believe in the investment trust structure.
The permanent of individual stocks and stay the course when we have found a capital, ability to use gearing over the long-term, investment good idea.
flexibility afforded by the mandate and Board oversight combine We have had a number of successes in the Internet area this year to give an excellent vehicle for compounding wealth.
Furthermore, including SBI online broker and venture capital investor, we remain committed to sharing the benefits of scale with CyberAgent internet advertising and content and Digital Garage shareholders over the long-term.
However, we also had successes in diverse areas including Katitas real-estate, Outsourcing staffing and Performance SanBio stem-cell treatment.
None of these companies are Over the past year the NAV per share with borrowings deducted currently well-known outside Japan, reflecting our philosophy of at fair value has increased by 22.2% to 834.0p which compares investing where the opportunities are.
very favourably to the rise in the Companys benchmark of 7.8%.
Baillie Gifford believes that performance should be measured over At all times we strive to pay attention to the long-term prospects longer periods and over five years the NAV has outpaced the of businesses rather than paying undue attention to share prices.
benchmark by 8.0% p. a. and over ten years by 8.1% p. a.
Last year both Rakuten and Suruga Bank were disappointing in demonstrating the benefit to shareholders of an active, long-term, share price terms.
During the year we reviewed Rakuten: noting growth orientated approach.
that the opportunity available to the company is large and the probability of success significant we concluded that increasing the The Companys total assets increased to just over 870m, a rise holding was appropriate.
In contrast, significant deficiencies in the of over 200m during the year, due to a combination of management of Suruga Bank came to light during the year and outperformance, a strong TOPIX and share issuance.
A larger since we no longer have conviction in the companys prospects trust will be of benefit to shareholders as fixed costs are spread we sold the shares.
over a broader base and due to the tiered fee structure a larger proportion of the assets are charged a lower fee.
Consequently In total we bought eight new holdings during the year and sold ongoing charges fell from 0.78% last year to 0.73% this year.
Turnover was 15.6% during the year.
The continued issuance of shares also allowed an element of reThe main driver of returns was stock picking.
The Company also shaping the portfolio without needing to sell anything.
borrows in yen to invest in stocks and this decision was helpful given the strong absolute performance in yen.
Finally, the rise in We continue to back entrepreneurialism in Japan.
Two of the new the TOPIX in yen terms contributed positively.
The yen weakened holdings, Katitas and Mercari, were bought in their IPO Initial a little 1.6% against sterling to 144.1 per 1, fractionally Public Offering during the year.
Meanwhile another three, Noritsu reducing the return in sterling.
Koki, Rizap and JAFCO, are companies that have been transformed by more dynamic management.
As in last years report, the portfolio is grouped into four different styles of growth to reflect our process.
Each of these styles offer We also continue to favour businesses with solid franchises and a different risks and opportunities.
Secular growth, the largest part long growth runway.
Zenkoku Hosho, Sato Holdings and Shimano of the portfolio, includes companies that we feel have an are each leaders in their respective niches and companies where opportunity to grow rapidly but where there are a number of we believe that there are many years of growth to come.
10 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Investment Environment The over-arching theme domestically is a normalising of the investment environment as many historic issues have been improved.
Japanese corporate governance has continued to progress and a concrete output of this is that shareholder returns through dividends and buybacks have continued to rise.
While areas for improvement remain, especially regarding cash hoarding, we should also acknowledge that the absence of scrip dividends, very low options issuance and lack of excessive pay for managers are helpful for minority shareholders.
Meanwhile the political situation is quiet as Mr Abe continues his journey to become Japans longest serving Prime Minister.
We have also observed that conversations with the word deflation seem to have become vanishingly rare.
While there continues to be lively debate around whether the Bank of Japan will be able to achieve 2% inflation we think that the most important thing is to have moved beyond the destructive effects of deflation.
Wages are rising, unemployment is very low, land prices in the major urban areas are rising, and bank lending is growing.
Meanwhile corporate confidence is strong, evidenced by strong rises in capital expenditure.
Where might the challenges come from?
The most obvious today are changes to established international norms.
Up to a point a rise in populism is part of normal functioning democracy: beyond that it can lead to difficulties, trade wars and worse.
Another risk is that of recession.
Since the Global Financial Crisis of a decade ago we have enjoyed a largely synchronous global economic expansion creating significant opportunities for Japanese businesses.
Cycles are difficult to predict but inevitable.
Outlook While volatility and set-backs from time to time will happen, the most important thing for us is to have access to quality growth companies.
Many of the companies that we own are still nearer the start than the end of their growth.
The Internet continues to allow companies to compete against incumbents with a powerful combination of a lower cost-base and better service.
Robotics and automation businesses listed in Japan have world-leading competitiveness and a very large growth opportunity as they enter new industries.
Finally, new categories of growth companies continue to appear emerging healthcare being a recent example.
We continue to be excited about the opportunities for growth stock-picking in Japan and believe that a well-executed strategy can deliver results.
Your Company is positioned to benefit from long-term technology changes and we will strive to build on its heritage of success.
Baillie Gifford 24 October 2018 The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 11
