Our technology How our business works continued Our strategy in action Insights into causes of conflict for A collaborative approach Our technology provides military planning The Technology team, part of the Chief customers with a competitive Technology Officer organisation, works with the BAE Systems businesses to develop the edgeacross air, maritime, land technology plans.
Our people are encouraged andcyber to help them to to innovate and embrace disruptive We are developing technology for technologies focused on those that will ensure protect what matters most.
theUS Defense Advanced Research our customers are equipped to face present Projects Agency DARPA and and future threats.
We employ highly skilled In the complex and fast-changing environment USAirForce Research Laboratory engineers, technologists and scientists who in which we work, harnessing technology enable us to deliver the most cutting-edge that will aidmilitary planners in andinnovation is key to developing the technology.
mosteffective and efficient solutions for understanding and addressing ourcustomers.
We are addressing this pace We are focused on improving collaboration thecomplex dynamics that drive ofchange by ensuring that our products are across the business, increasing connections conflicts around the world.
designed, built and supported in a way that and identifying opportunities and projects Through the Causal Exploration of Complex provides for future flexibility with the ability where we can leverage the power of the Operational Environments programme, we toupgrade in an agile manner.
Group including across areas such as autonomy, are developing software that models different maritime battlespace, future combat air, cyber political, territorial and economic tensions Technology and innovation are central and advanced manufacturing.
Inadvanced thatoften lead toconflicts, helping planners toourbusiness.
They underpin our strategy manufacturing, we continue toinvest in our to avoid unexpected outcomes.
and the development of our products and additive manufacturing capabilities across the This original software, called Causal Modeling services, helping to make our products more business and developing partnerships with for Knowledge Transfer, Exploration and cost-effective, including the operational universities and supply chain companies with Temporal Simulation, is intended to create andthrough-life costs of current and aninteractive model of an operational aparticular focus on a reduction of the futuresystems.
environment, allowing planners to explore  time.
thecauses of a conflict and assess Our planning process starts with the business As well as taking a collaborative approach potentialapproaches.
strategy informing a product strategy which in within our own business we work with a This solution aims to replace todays timeturn defines the capabilities and technologies range of partners including our customers, consuming and labour-intensive approaches, that are required.
defence and security industry partners, other to give planners a quicker and deeper industry partners, small and medium-sized understanding of conflicts to help avoid This structured approach ensures we have a 1 enterprises and academia.
Often we work unexpected and counter-intuitive outcomes.
clear focus for our research and development with others to develop embryonic technology This and other programmes are managed by R&D spend and that of our customers, before selecting and maturing it for use in our our Electronic Systems FAST Labs business tomaximise future product and service own products and services.
The team collaborates across the capabilities and the way we work.
Companys global enterprise to create and develop advanced technology capabilities inadvanced electronics, autonomy, cyber, electronic warfare, and sensors and processing.
Our scientists and engineers solve some ofthetoughest challenges in the defence, Business Product Capability Technology aerospace, power and propulsion, and strategy strategy gaps plan security domains.
The team is also partnering with universities and commercial technology companies to leverage innovation for powerful new capabilities for our customers.
The views, opinions and findings expressed are those of BAE Systems and should not be interpreted asrepresenting the official views or policies of the Department of Defense or the US government.
BAE Systems 26 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action Mixed reality cockpit In the US, UK and Australia we forge strong We are also investing in digital twin relationships and partnerships with universities technology to evaluate the potential of to enable us toidentify and learn about new aproduct digital twin that can facilitate technologies that can help our customers.
virtualtesting to be undertaken in a digital environment, significantly reducing the We also assess the utility of our existing requirement and cost of physical testing.
technology to determine if we can create BAE Systems specialist team of value through licences and sales of rights Our investment Human Factors engineers collaborate tothe technology to other organisations.
We continue to invest in a wide range of with pilots to better understand and R&Dactivities that are targeted in customer Horizon scanning anticipate their needs.
These insights priority areas and in programmes that will Part of the role of our Technology team shape the intuitive technologies giveus a competitive advantage.
In 2018, istoscan the developments in science and thatthe teamis developing for wespent 1.5bn 2017 1.6bn on R&D, of engineering happening across the world thecockpit ofthe future.
which 222m 2017 238m was funded by andto bring to our attention the latest BAE Systems.
Inaddition, the Groups share One area of focus is on technologies that advances that may have utility in the ofthe R&D expenditure of its equity accounted enable pilots to control the cockpit in new defence, aerospace and security markets.
An example is the wearable cockpit investments in 2018 was 0.2bn 2017 0.1bn.
We work hard to identify key trends that which removes many of the physical elements We protect our investments in technologies of current cockpit design, and replaces it with willshape our future business, taking into and have a portfolio of patents and patent a virtual display, projected through the pilots account the increasing pace of technological applications covering approximately 2,500 helmet.
This provides the pilot with a change and the huge growth in R&D spend software-only cockpit that is upgradeable, inventions worldwide.
inthe commercial and consumer-focused adaptable and reconfigurable.
sectors that has applicability for our business.
In order to accelerate our R&D programmes we We have integrated our virtual reality cockpit Work in this area includes the virtual training make value-adding investments or acquisitions with the Striker II helmet and are now environment where we are developing virtual in key and emergent new technologies.
In 2018 working to evaluate its effectiveness in a platforms and their support environments by we announced a collaboration with Prismatic range of simulated scenarios.
to invest in the development and flight testing As military domains become more contested of the PHASA-35 system, a new solar electric and technologies become more complex, we The use of technology, innovations and unmanned aerial vehicle which has the potential are focusing on the controls that are critical advanced manufacturing techniques across to fly for up to a year, and a further investment tothe pilot and how these can become easier our business is essential in driving greater to manage.
Eye-tracking technology will allow in Reaction Engines.
A good the pilot to physically look and highlight an example of this is the work we are doing to object, and then make a gesture to press a develop an intelligent, self-optimising and button, rather than having a series of physical adaptable digital factory for future platforms buttonson the aircraft.
that will integrate intelligent robotic technologies to support manufacturing and assembly.
Aligned to this is our investment inintelligent robotic technologies, such as collaborative robots or Cobots, which are powerful enablers for reduced manufacturing 1 Research and development expenditure costs, improved productivity and the safety ofmanufacturing environments.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
