Statutory and other information Company registration Office of Fair Trading undertakings Treasury shares BAE Systems plc is a public company limited As a consequence of the merger between As at 1 January 2018, the number of shares byshares registered in England and Wales British Aerospace and the former Marconi held in treasury totalled 281,232,739 having with the registered number 1470151.
Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, the atotal nominal value of 7,030,818 and Company gave certain undertakings to the representing 8.1% of the Companys called up Directors Secretary of State for Trade and Industry share capital at 1 January 2018.
During 2018, The current directors who served during nowthe Secretary of State for Business, the Company used 9,582,602 treasury shares the2018 financial year are listed on pages Energy and Industrial Strategy.
In February having a total nominal value of 239,565 and 78and79.
RevathiAdvaithi was appointed 2007, the Company was released from the representing 0.3% of the Companys called up totheBoard on 1 January 2018. majority of these undertakings and the share capital at 31 December 2018 to satisfy The Board has agreed to appoint Nicole remainder have been superseded and varied awards under the Free and Matching elements Piasecki and Stephen Pearce asnon-executive by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance of the Share Incentive Plan 5,739,686 shares directors with effect from1June 2019. with the undertakings is monitored by a in aggregate, awards under the Free and compliance officer.
Further information Matching elements of the International Share Dividend regarding the undertakings and the contact Incentive Plan 763,754 shares in aggregate, An interim dividend of 9.0p per share was details of the compliance officer may be awards vested under the Performance Share paid on 30 November 2018.
The directors obtained through the Company Secretary Plan and Performance Shares element of the propose a final dividend of 13.2p per ordinary atthe Companys registered office or Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,098,521 shares, share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the throughthe Companys website.
awards vested under the Restricted Shares final dividend will be paid on 3 June 2019 element of the Long-Term Incentive Plan toshareholders on the share register on Profit forecast 1,123,760 shares, and options exercised 23April 2019.
Information on dividend In its half-year results announcement under the Executive Share Option Plan waivers is given on page 190. on1August 2018, the Group made the 856,881 shares.
The treasury shares utilised followingstatement, which is regarded Annual General Meeting AGM in respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the asaprofit forecast for the purposes of the The Companys AGM will be held on International Share Incentive Plan, and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9May2019.
The Notice of Annual General Performance Share Plan and the Performance 9.2.
18 andwhich amended the profit Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and Restricted Shares elements of the forecastmadein the Groups full-year results and details the resolutions to be proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan were disposed announcement on 22 February 2018 and atthe meeting.
ofbythe Company for nil consideration.
inthe Annual Report 2017 : The856,881 shares disposed of by the Certain information in the Strategic report In aggregate, we expect the Groups Company in respect of the Executive Share The following items are set out in the Strategic underlying earnings per share for 2018 Option Plan were disposed of by the Company report on pages 1 to 71: tobein line with the full-year underlying for an aggregate consideration of 3,735,882. disclosures in relation to the use of financial earnings per share for 2017, with some small As at 31 December 2018, the number of instruments: additional benefit from exchange translation.
shares held in treasury totalled 271,650,137 having a total nominal value of 6,791,253 particulars of important events affecting Compared with the Groups actual and representing 7.8% of the Companys theGroup which have occurred since performance for 2017 as re-presented called up share capital at 31 December 2018.
31December 2018: toreflect the impact of the adoption of IFRS15 from 43.5p to 42.1p and assuming The rights to treasury shares are restricted an indication of likely future developments aUS$1.35 to sterling exchange rate.
inaccordance with the Companies Act and, in the business of the Group: inparticular, the voting and dividend rights Underlying earnings per share was 42.9p an indication of the activities of the Group attaching to these shares are automatically in2018.
inthe field of research and development: suspended.
Employees actions taken to introduce, maintain The Group is committed to giving full and ordevelop arrangements aimed at fairconsideration to applications for employees: and employment from disabled people who greenhouse gas emissions.
meetthe requirements for roles, and makingavailable training opportunities and appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by the Group.
Political donations No political donations were made in 2018.
Issued share capital As at 31 December 2018, BAE Systems issuedshare capital of 86,686,002 comprised 3,467,440,044 ordinary shares of 2.5p each and one Special Share of 1.
BAE Systems 130 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rights and obligations of ordinary shares Restrictions on transfer of securities awards of shares made under the Companys On a show of hands at a general meeting The restrictions on the transfer of shares in Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014, Deferred every holder of ordinary shares present in theCompany are as follows: Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Share person and entitled to vote shall have one Incentive Plan, International Share Incentive the Special Share may only be issued to, vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall Plan, Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan heldby and transferred to the Special have one vote unless the proxy is appointed and International Profit Sharing Scheme are Shareholder or his successor or nominee: by more than one member in which case the subject to restrictions on the transfer of proxy has one vote for and one vote against the directors shall not register any allotment shares prior to vesting and or release.
ifthe proxy has been instructed by one or or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, The Company is not aware of any more members to vote for the resolution and or foreign persons acting in concert, who arrangements between its shareholders by one or more members to vote against the atthe time have more than a 15% voting thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer resolution: or if the proxy has been instructed interest in the Company, or who would, of shares and or voting rights.
by one or more shareholders to vote either following such allotment or transfer, have foror against a resolution and by one or more such an interest: Significant direct and indirect holders of those shareholders to use his discretion ofsecurities the directors shall not register any person how to vote.
On a poll, every member present As at 31 December 2018 and unchanged as asa holder of any shares unless they have in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall at 20 February 2019, the Company had been received: i a declaration stating that upon have one vote for every ordinary share held.
advised of the following significant direct and registration, the share s will not be held by Subject to the relevant statutory provisions indirect interests in the issued ordinary share foreign persons or that upon registration and the Companys Articles of Association, capital of the Company: theshare s will be held by a foreign person holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a Percentage or persons: ii such evidence if any as dividend where declared or paid out of Name of shareholder notified thedirectors may require of the authority profitsavailable for such purposes.
Subject ofthesignatory of the declaration: and AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% tothe relevant statutory provisions and the iii such evidence or information if any as Barclays PLC 3.98% Companys Articles of Association, on a to the matters referred to in the declaration returnof capital on a winding-up, holders of BlackRock, Inc. 5.00% asthe directors consider appropriate: ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9.94% of the 1Special Share, to participate in such the directors may, in their absolute areturn.
There are no redemption rights in discretion, refuse to register any transfer Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% relation to the ordinary shares.
ofshares which are not fully paid up Invesco Limited 4.97% butnot so as to prevent dealings in listed Rights and obligations of the Special Share shares from taking place : Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and the directors may also refuse to register any Exercise of rights of shares in employee Industrial Strategy the Special Shareholder.
instrument of transfer of shares unless the share schemes Certain provisions of the Companys Articles instrument of transfer is in respect of only The trustees of the employee trusts do not of Association cannot be amended without one class of share and it is lodged at the seek to exercise voting rights on shares held the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These place where the register of members is kept, inthe employee trusts other than on the provisions include the requirement that no accompanied by a relevant certificate or direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
foreign person, or foreign persons acting in such other evidence as the directors may Novoting rights are exercised in relation to concert, can have more than a 15% voting reasonably require to show the right of the shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
interest in the Company, the requirement that transferor to make the transfer: the majority of the directors are British, and Restrictions on voting deadlines the directors may refuse to register an the requirement that the Chief Executive and The notice of any general meeting shall specify allotment or transfer of shares in favour any executive Chairman are British.
the deadline for exercising voting rights and ofmore than four persons jointly: appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in The holder of the Special Share is entitled to where a shareholder has failed to provide relation to resolutions to be proposed at the attend a general meeting, but the Special Share the Company with certain information general meeting.
The number of proxy votes carries no right to vote or any other rights relating to their interest in shares, the for, against or withheld in respect of each atany such meeting, other than to speak directors can, in certain circumstances, resolution are publicised on the Companys inrelation to any business in respect of the refuse to register a transfer of such shares: website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of certain restrictions may from time to time Association, on a return of capital on a beimposed by laws and regulations for winding-up, the holder of the Special Share example, insider trading laws : shall be entitled to repayment of the 1capital restrictions may be imposed pursuant to paid up on the Special Share in priority to any theListing Rules of the Financial Conduct repayment of capital to any other members.
Authority whereby certain of the Groups The holder of the Special Share has the employees require the Companys approval rightto require the Company to redeem the to deal in shares: and Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 131 Statutory and other information continued Appointment and replacement of directors Powers of the directors Company without delay should there be any Subject to certain nationality requirements The directors are responsible for the material change in the nature of the conflict mentioned below, the Company may by management of the business of the Company orpotential conflict so authorised.
ordinary resolution appoint any person to and may exercise all powers of the Company Directors indemnities beadirector.
subject to applicable legislation and The Company has entered into deeds of regulation, and the Articles of Association.
The directors also have the power to make indemnity with all its current directors and appointments to the Board at any time.
At the 2018 AGM, the directors were given those persons who were directors for any Anyindividual so appointed will hold office the power to buy back a maximum number partof 2018 which are qualifying indemnity until the next AGM and shall then be eligible of318,730,061 ordinary shares at a minimum provisions for the purpose of the Companies for re-election.
The maximum price Act 2006. wasthe higher of i an amount equal to The majority of directors holding office must The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds 105% of the average of the middle market be British.
Otherwise, the directors who are Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension quotations of the Companys ordinary shares not British shall vacate office in such order Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive as derived from the London Stock Exchange thatthose who have been in office for the Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Daily Official List for the five business days shortest period since their appointment shall AlvisPension Scheme Trustees Limited immediately preceding the day on which vacate their office first, unless all of the benefitfrom indemnities in the governing suchordinary shares are contracted to be directors otherwise agree among themselves.
documentation of the BAE Systems Pension purchased, and ii the higher of the price Any director who holds the office of either Scheme, the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, ofthe last independent trade and the Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme highestcurrent independent bid on the Executive shall also be British.
and the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, London Stock Exchange as stipulated by which are qualifying indemnity provisions The Company must have not less than six Regulatory Technical Standards adopted forthe purpose of the Companies Act 2006. directors holding office at all times.
If the bythe European Commission pursuant to number is reduced to below six, then such article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as number of persons shall be appointed as atthe date of this Directors report.
This power will expire at the earlier of the directors as soon as is reasonably practicable conclusion of the 2019 AGM or 30 June 2019.
Change of control significant agreements to reinstate the number of directors to six.
A special resolution will be proposed at the The following significant agreements contain TheCompany may by ordinary resolution 2019 AGM to renew the Companys authority provisions entitling the counterparties to fromtime to time vary the minimum number to acquire its own shares.
exercise termination, alteration or other similar of directors.
rights in the event of a change of control of At the 2018 AGM, the directors were given At each AGM of the Company, any director the Company: the power to issue new shares up to a nominal who was elected or last re-elected at or The Group entered into a 2bn Revolving amount of 26,558,182.
This power will expire beforethe AGM held in the third calendar Credit Facility dated 12 December 2013 on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2019 year before the then current calendar year which wasamended and restated on AGM or 30 June 2019.
Accordingly, a must retire by rotation and such further 30April 2018.
The facility provides that, resolution will be proposed at the 2019 AGM directors must retire by rotation so that in inthe event of achange of control of to renew the Companys authority to issue totalone-third of the directors retire by theCompany, the lenders are entitled further new shares.
A retiring director is torenegotiate terms, orif no agreement eligiblefor re-election.
It is the Boards Conflicts of interest isreached on negotiated terms within a intention that all directors will stand for As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, certain period, to call for the repayment election or re-election in 2019 in compliance the Companys Articles of Association contain orcancellation of the facility.
TheRevolving with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
provisions which enable the Board to authorise Credit Facility was undrawn asat conflicts or potential conflicts that individual 31December 2018.
Amendment of the Companys Articles directors may have.
ofAssociation The Company has entered into a Restated The Companys Articles of Association may To avoid potential conflicts of interest the and Amended Shareholders Agreement only be amended by a special resolution at a Board requires the Nominations Committee with European Aeronautic Defence and general meeting of shareholders.
Where class tocheck that any individuals it nominates for Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating rights are varied, such amendments must be appointment to the Board are free of potential to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 approved by the members of each class of conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures as amended.
In the event that control of shares separately.
and the induction programme for new the Company passes to certain specified directors emphasise a directors personal In addition, certain provisions of the Articles third-party acquirors, the agreement allows responsibility for complying with the duties ofAssociation cannot be amended without EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These option to terminate certain executive adopted by the Board for the authorisation provisions include the requirement that no management level nomination and voting ofconflicts reminds directors of the need to foreign person, or foreign persons acting in rights, and certain shareholder information consider their duties as directors and not grant concert, can have more than a 15% voting rights of the Company in relation to the an authorisation unless they believe, in good interest in the Company, the requirement that MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise faith, that this would be likely to promote the the majority of the directors are British, and of this option, the Company would have success of the Company.
As required by law, the requirement that the Chief Executive and theright to require the other shareholders the potentially conflicted director cannot vote any executive Chairman are British.
topurchase its interest in MBDA at fair on an authorisation resolution or be counted market value.
Any authorisation granted may be terminated at any time and the director is informed of the obligation to inform the BAE Systems 132 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Company and EADS have agreed In August 2008, BAE Systems Land In September 2016, BAE Systems Marine thatifFinmeccanica acquires a controlling Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited Limited entered into a contract with the interest in the Company, EADS will increase now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems MoD for the initial phase of manufacturing its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by Munitions Limited and the MoD entered activities for the Dreadnought Class purchasing the appropriate number of into a 15-year partnering agreement for programme.
This contract was extended shares in MBDA at fair market value.
theprovision of ammunition to UK Forces and amended to include additional the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution manufacturing activities in March 2018.
The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. MASS partnering agreement.
Where Where the MoD considers that a proposed BAE Systems Holdings Limited and theMoD considers that a proposed change change of control of BAE Systems Marine BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into of control of BAE Systems Global Combat Limited would be contrary to the defence, aSpecial Security Agreement dated Systems Munitions Limited would be national security or national interest of the 23October 2015 with the US Department contrary to the defence, national security UK, then the change of control shall not of Defense regarding the management ornational interest of the UK, then the proceed until agreement is established with ofBAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply change of control shall not proceed until the MoD.
In the event that there is a change withthe US governments national security agreement with the MoD is established.
of control of BAE Systems Marine Limited, requirements.
In the event of a change Inthe event that there is a change of control notwithstanding the objection of the MoD ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement of BAE Systems Global Combat Systems on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled may be terminated or altered by the US Munitions Limited, notwithstanding the to terminate the agreements immediately.
objection of the MoD on such grounds, In December 2018, BAE Systems subsidiary, In June 2017, BAE Systems Surface Ships theMoD may, having followed the dispute ASC Shipbuilding Pty Limited, entered into Limited entered into a contract with the resolution process, terminate the MASS acontract providing the framework for the UKMinistry of Defence MoD for the agreement for default.
design and manufacture of Hunter Class manufacture of the first batch of three frigates for the Royal Australian Navy In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine Type26 frigates.
As part of the acquisition Limited entered into a contract with the considersthat a proposed change of of ASC Shipbuilding Pty Limited from the MoD for the design, construction, testing controlof BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited Australian Commonwealth, BAE Systems and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute would becontrary to the defence, national Australia Limited entered into a Sovereign Class programme.
In November 2015, securityor national interest of the UK or Capability and Option Deed SCOD.
Under BAE Systems Marine Limited entered into where the change of control would result the Head Contract and the SCOD, if there is acontract with the MoD for the design, inincreased costs to the MoD under the a change of control of ASC Shipbuilding Pty construction, testing and commissioning contract, then the change of control shall Limited, BAE Systems Australia Limited or ofBoat 5 of the Astute Class programme.
not proceed until agreement with the BAE Systems plc, consent is required from InMarch 2016, BAE Systems Marine MoDis established.
If there is a change of the Australian Commonwealth Government Limitedentered into a contract with the control without notice or notwithstanding prior to any change of control occurring.
MoD for the design, construction, testing the objection of the MoD on such grounds, Ifthere is a change of control without and commissioning of Boat 6 of the then the MoD may terminate the contract noticeor notwithstanding an objection, AstuteClass Programme.
In March 2018, with immediate effect.
theCommonwealth may terminate the BAE Systems Marine Limited entered into Head Contract, take any action to mitigate The MSDF agreement between BAE Systems acontract with the MoD for the design, an actual or potential threat to Australias Surface Ships Limited and the MoD became construction, testing and commissioning national security interests, or exercise its effective on 1 October 2014 and establishes ofBoat 7 of the Astute Class Programme.
calloption under the SCOD and regain a framework until March 2019 for the Where the MoD considersthat a proposed ownership of ASC Shipbuilding Pty Limited.
provision of surface ship support work change of control of BAE Systems Marine In addition, the Companys share plans andservices relating to HM Naval Base Limited would be contrary to the defence, containprovisions as a result of which options Portsmouth.
Where the MoD considers national security ornational interest of the and awards may vest and become exercisable thata proposed change of control of UK, then the change of control shall not on a change of control of the Company in BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would proceed until agreement is established with accordance with the rules of the plans.
becontrary to the defence, national security the MoD.
Inthe event that there is a change or national interest of the UK, then the of controlof BAE Systems Marine Limited, change of control shall not proceed until notwithstanding the objection of the MoD agreement with the MoD is established.
on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled Ifthere is a change of control without to terminate the agreements immediately.
noticeor notwithstanding the objection In December 2011, BAE Systems Marine ofthe MoD, the MoD shall be entitled Limited entered into a contract with the toterminate the MSDF.
MoD for the design of the Dreadnought submarines.
Where the MoD considers that a change of control of BAE Systems Marine Limited would be contrary to the defence, national interest or national security of the UK, then the change of control shall not take place until agreement is reached with the MoD on how to proceed.
In the event that there is a change of control notwithstanding the objection of the MoD on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled to terminate the contract with immediate effect.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 133 Statutory and other information continued Auditor The directors are responsible for keeping Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to adequate accounting records that are Responsibility statement of the be re-appointed as the Companys auditor and sufficient to show and explain the parent directorsin respect of the Annual a resolution proposing their re-appointment companys transactions and disclose with Reportand financial statements will be put to the 2019 AGM.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Each of the directors listed below confirms position of the parent company and enable that to the best of their knowledge: Statement of directors responsibilities them to ensure that its financial statements inrespect of the Annual Report and the the financial statements, prepared comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They financial statements inaccordance with the applicable set are responsible for such internal control as The directors are responsible for preparing ofaccounting standards, give a true they determine is necessary to enable the theAnnual Report, and the Group and parent andfair view of the assets, liabilities, preparation of financial statements that are company financial statements in accordance financial position and profit or loss of free from material misstatement, whether with applicable law and regulations.
theCompany, and the undertakings dueto fraud or error, and have general included in the consolidation taken Company law requires the directors to responsibility for taking such steps as are asawhole: and prepareGroup and parent company financial reasonably open to them to safeguard the the Strategic report and Directors statements for each financial year.
Under assets of the Group and to prevent and report, taken together, include a thatlaw, they are required to prepare the detectfraud and other irregularities.
fairreview of the development and Group financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations, performance of the business, and withInternational Financial Reporting thedirectors are also responsible for theposition of the Company and Standards as adopted by the European Union preparing astrategic report, directors theundertakings included in the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable report, directors remuneration report consolidation taken as a whole, law, and have elected to prepare the parent andcorporate governance statement that together with a description of the company financial statements in accordance comply with thatlaw and those regulations.
principal risks and uncertainties that with UK accounting standards, including they face.
Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101, The directors are responsible for the Reduced Disclosure Framework.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate In addition, each of the directors considers and financial information included on the that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, Under company law, the directors must not companys website.
Legislation in the UK isfair, balanced and understandable, and approve the financial statements unless they governing the preparation and dissemination provides the information necessary for are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of financial statements may differ from shareholders to assess the Companys of the state of affairs of the Group and parent legislation in other jurisdictions.
position and performance, business company, and of their profit or loss for that model and strategy.
In preparing each of the Group and Statement of disclosure of information parent company financial statements, the toauditor Sir Roger Carr Chairman directors are required to: The directors who held office at the date Charles Woodburn Chief Executive ofapproval of this Directors report confirm select suitable accounting policies and that, so far as they are each aware, there is Jerry DeMuro President and Chief thenapply them consistently: norelevant audit information of which the Executive Officer of make judgements and estimates that are BAE Systems, Inc. Companys auditor is unaware: and each reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: director has taken all the steps that he she Peter Lynas Group Finance Director for the Group financial statements, ought to have taken to make himself herself statewhether they have been prepared Revathi Advaithi Non-executive director aware of any relevant audit information and inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by toestablish that the Companys auditor is Elizabeth Corley Non-executive director theEU: aware of that information.
Harriet Green Non-executive director for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Chris Grigg Non-executive director accounting standards have been followed, Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director subject to any material departures disclosed Nick Rose Non-executive director and explained in the parent company financial statements: Ian Tyler Non-executive director assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, On behalf of the Board disclosing, as applicable, matters related Sir Roger Carr togoing concern: and Chairman use the going concern basis of accounting 20 February 2019 unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Directors report The Directors report was approved by the board of directors on 20 February 2019.
David Parkes Company Secretary BAE Systems 134 Annual Report 2018
