Maritime Segmental review continued Maritime programmes include the Land UK provides combat vehicle Maritime comprises the construction of the second of the Queen upgradesand support to the British Army Groups UK-based maritime Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers, five River andinternational customers, and designs, ClassOffshore Patrol Vessels and seven develops and manufactures a comprehensive and land activities.
AstuteClass submarines for the Royal Navy: range of munitions products servicing its aswell as the design and production of maincustomer, the UK Ministry of Defence, theRoyal Navys future Dreadnought Class aswell as international customers.
The submarine and Type 26 frigate.
Additionally business also develops and manufactures the Maritime portfolio includes in-service cased-telescoped weapons through its support, including the delivery of training CTAInternational joint venture.
services and management of HM Naval Base, Portsmouth, and the design and manufacture of combat systems, torpedoes and radars.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Land Maritime Land UK Naval Ships Services Platforms 1 0% 90% 1 0% 45% 31% 69% Submarines 45% BAE Systems 60 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Employees 16,000 Operational and strategic key points HMS Queen Elizabeth has undergone Offshore Patrol Vessel programme quality successful initial F-35 Lightning II flight trials issues have required the creation of a 47m lossprovision Cost growth on the Aircraft Carrier programme has resulted in a more Management strengthened across conservative trading of contract profitability.
segment to focus on programme Sea trials for HMS Prince of Wales are schedule, execution and cost performance expected within the next year CTA International, BAE Systems joint Type 26 selected as the design for the venture with Nexter, delivered 115 40mm Canadian Surface Combatant programme cased-telescopic cannons Receipt of the full 1.6bn contract for the In January 2019, entered into an seventh Astute Class submarine, Agincourt, agreementwith Rheinmetall to create with order intake in the year of 0.7bn ajoint UK-based military land vehicle design, manufacturing and support Further 1.3bn funding extension for the Our strategy in action business, subject to regulatory clearances Dreadnought programme received Progression onour submarine programmes Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 3 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 2017 2017 2 2 2018 restated 2018 restated In March, BAE Systems was Sales KPI 2,975m 2,877m Revenue 2,940m 2,845m awarded a 1.6bn contract Underlying EBITA 209m 251m Operating profit 191m 240m KPI withorder intake in the year Return on sales 7.0% 8.7% Return on revenue 6.5% 8.4% of0.7bn for delivery of the Operating business Cash flow from seventh Astute Class submarine.
KPI cash flow 67m 278m operating activities 190m 396m Onthe Dreadnought submarine 1 Order intake KPI 3,513m 4,671m programme, 0.9bn order intake 1 Order backlog 9.0bn 8.5bn was received in March, with a further0.4bn received inOctober.
Sales of 3.0bn are marginally higher than There was an operating cash inflow of During a visit to Barrow, the Secretary 2017.
As expected, whilst the Dreadnought 67m.
Reported performance reflects ofState for Defence named the seventh submarine and Type 26 programmes thereversal of the 106m VAT timing and final submarine in the Astute Class, continue to ramp-up, activity levels on benefit from last year.
He also formally opened theCarrier programme are reducing.
Order backlog increased to 9.0bn following anew state-of-the-art manufacturing Return on sales for the year was at 7.0%.
the awards in the first half oftheyear for facility, marking the latest development Further charges on the five-ship Offshore Astute Boat 7 pricing andfurther funding in a major infrastructure investment Patrol Vessels contract were taken and under the Dreadnoughtprogramme.
programme at our Barrow site.
Certain trading on the Carrier programme was phases of construction for the atamore conservative level than planned.
Dreadnought Class will take place Performance in the submarines business atthenew Central Yard Facility, which wasahead of plan on improved milestone includes production, workshop and achievement and risk retirement.
Construction on the first of four new Dreadnought submarines started in 2016and this latest funding will support ongoing design and build activities, procurement of materials and investment in new and existing facilities for a further 12 months.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Prior year comparatives have been restated upon the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts withCustomers.
See note 37 to the Group accounts fordetails regarding the restatement.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 61 Segmental review continued Crown copyright Our strategy in action F-35 Lightning II carrierintegration Operational performance Our Type 26 platform design has opened upopportunities abroad and in February Maritime 2019, theCanadian government together Naval Ships with Irving Shipbuilding selected Lockheed On the aircraft carrier programme, large Martin Canada, using our Type 26 platform volume installation activities continue to design, as subcontractor for the Canadian progress on HMS Prince of Wales, with BAE Systems has a unique role Surface Combatant programme.
This is a commissioning of systems continuing inthedesign, build and support further endorsement of the Global Combat through2019 and seatrials also scheduled ofboth the F-35Lightning II Ship as one of the worlds most advanced totake place in 2019. anti-submarine warships.
aircraftand QueenElizabeth Work continues to support HMS Queen Classaircraft carriers.
Following the completion of a The first three Astute Class submarines are As the First of Class Flight Trials Capability Insertion Period, successful fixed inoperational service with the Royal Navy.
commenced to bring together the wing flight trials took place in the second Progress continues on the manufacture of F-35Lightning II and HMS Queen halfof 2018, with the first F-35 Lightning II theremaining four boats.
A full contract Elizabeth, BAE Systems employees deck landing completed.
However, cost award for the seventh boat, Agincourt, wereat the heart of the integration.
growth on the programme has resulted wassecured in March.
inamore conservative trading of contract Two month-long trials took place off the profitability in the period.
Functional and spatial design and production east coast of the United States, involving on the first of class continues to advance on a unique and complex set of exercises The first of the five Offshore Patrol Vessels, the Dreadnought Class submarine programme, that tested the aircrafts ability to operate HMS Forth, completed sea trials in December the replacement for the Vanguard Class safely and effectively from the aircraft 2017.
However, quality issues have had to be submarines.
Contract funding of 1.3bn carrier in a range of sea states and wind resolved resulting in unanticipated programme wasreceived through 2018. speeds during both day and night.
cost growth and a47m loss provision has OurF-35 test pilot, the only industry been recorded in the year.
Lessons learned The major programme of building works pilotwho flew in the trials, made arebeing applied tothe other ships in build.
atthe Barrow site continues, with contracts historyby performing the worlds first Sea trials on the second ship, HMS Medway, inplace totalling more than 0.5bn.
took place in November 2018 and the ship The Dreadnought Alliance Agreement isdue to be delivered to thecustomer in detailing the organisational, governance thefirst quarter of2019.
Construction of Group strategic More online 18 andcommercial arrangements between framework baesystems.
com theremaining three Offshore Patrol Vessels thethree parties, the Submarine Delivery onthe Clyde continues through 2019.
Agency, BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce The three Type 26 ships continue in production.
wasagreed, allowing for the formal stand-up The programme currently employs over of the Alliance from April 2018.
1,500people and activities have continued tobuild progressively during 2018 on transition from detailed design through to production readiness and the commencement of unit build.
BAE Systems 62 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Maritime Services Land UK BAE Systems continues to manage and The business continues to provide UK and Looking forward maintain HM Naval Base, Portsmouth, and international customers with a wide range Forward-looking information for the supports more than half of the Royal Navys oflight and heavy munitions, and support Maritimereporting segmentisprovided surface fleet through the Maritime Support topreviously supplied armoured vehicles later inthis report.
ofDefence extended this contract to March Segmental During the year, 115 40mm cased-telescopic 64 2020 in theearly part of the year.
looking forward cannons were delivered to the Ministry of During the second half of the year, we have Defence by CTA International, a joint venture mobilised the Type 45 Power Improvement between BAE Systems and Nexter, bringing Programme in collaboration with Cammell cumulative deliveries to 275 of 515.
This is Laird and BMT, having been selected as thefirst entirely new medium-calibre cannon primecontractor in the first half of 2018. and ammunition system qualified by the British Army since the late 1960s.
Also during Progress continues on the 270m Spearfish the period an order for 72m was received torpedo programme, with the demonstration todeliver 110 Case Telescoped Armament phase forecast to complete in 2020.
Systems to the French Army under their Maritime Services has delivered a 6x6combat armoured reconnaissance transformation programme through 2018 vehicleprogramme.
tostreamline its processes and ensure itis The business is one of two contenders ableto deliver value for money as we continue delivering the design stages of the to provide the Royal Navy with thecapability Challenger2 Life Extension Programme itneeds to protect the nations interests.
andthe British Armys bridging system.
In January 2019 the business entered into anagreement with Rheinmetall to create ajoint UK-based military land vehicle design, manufacturing and support business.
Rheinmetall will purchase a 55% stake in theexisting BAE Systems UK-based combat vehicles business for 28.6m with BAE Systems retaining 45%.
The transaction is subject toregulatory approvals which are anticipated to be completed in the first half of 2019.
Thetransaction does not include Land UKs munitions business or its holding in the CTAIjoint venture with Nexter.
