Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems has leading positions in its Our markets principal markets in the US, UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia aswell as established positions in a number of other international markets.
We are one Group strategic 18 framework ofthe largest global defence companies.
1 Supporting our customers Accessible global defence markets Our strategy is focused on providing a Top ten global defence markets accessible vitaladvantage to our customers across for business by the Group $bn theUS, UK and international markets.
Inparticular, we have built strong positions 1.
US 606 aligned with our core defence platforms to 2.
India 61 support our customers in our four principal 3.
These principal markets the US, UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and 4.
France 53 Australia have been identified as having 5.
Saudi Arabia 52 asignificant and sustained commitment 6.
Germany 44 established strong and enduring relationships 8.
South Korea 38 in these markets and is recognised as playing akey role in the industrial capability of each 9.
Brazil Principal markets 29 Our unique position and capabilities Source: 2017 US budget as shown in the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request and, outside the US, IHS Janes Defence Budgets based on 2017 totaldefence Our strong position in the US through the budgets and constant 2018 US dollars.
Special Security Agreement, together with ourstanding as the leading defence contractor in the UK, provides us with unique capabilities BAE Systems global defence market position that can be leveraged across the Group to support our customers.
In addition, our diverse Top ten global defence portfolio of capabilities in the air, maritime, contractors revenue $bn land and cyber domains, provides us with 1.
Lockheed Martin acomprehensive offering for our customers 48 around the world making us one of the 2.
Raytheon 24 broadest and most geographically diverse 3.
BAE Systems 22 major defence companies.
Northrop Grumman 22 Responding to changes in defence 5.
General Dynamics 20 Our business continues to respond to 7.
Airbus 11 geopolitical and technology trends that will 8.
Almaz-Antey 9 influence and shape our customers defence 9.
Thales 9 and security requirements now and into the future.
Our excellence in complex engineering, 10.
Leonardo 9 developing cutting-edge technology and Source: Defense News Top 100 for 2018 based on 2017 numbers.
Exchange rate applied seeking innovative solutions enables us to to BAE Systems is $1.289 1. respond toour customers requirements for greater agility, global reach, and advanced technology products and services.
Growth aspirations A number of key markets for the Group haveeither grown or stabilised spending inresponse to an increasingly uncertain security environment.
We have a significant international presencesupported by long-standing customer relationships andthe ability to leverage our range of capabilities around theGroup.
Following anumber of significant wins in the last two years we continue toseefurther opportunities in a number ofinternational markets.
Markets inaccessible for business by BAE Systems areexcluded.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 19 Our markets continued 1 Sales by destination The US continues to represent BAE Systems remains the the single largest defence largest defence company E A market in the world and inthe UK, with strong and BAE Systems remains a top ten long-standing relationships D defence supplier in the US.
with the Ministry of Defence.
On 28 September, the fiscal year 2019 The UK is Europes largest defence market C Defense Appropriations bill was enacted.
and, after a period of budgetary decline, Thisis the first time since 2008 that the defence spending has stabilised.
The Autumn Department of Defense had funding in Budget reinforced the UK governments placeby the 1 October start of the fiscal commitment to defence and security spending, B year, whichprovided near-term clarity for the as well as the continued pledge to maintain industry and demonstrated strong bi-partisan spending at 2% of GDP.
Additionally, the support for defence funding as part of the UKCombat Air Strategy announced in July is A US 42% B UK 21% two-year agreement passed in early 2018. asignificant milestone, sending a strong signal C Saudi Arabia 14% of intent for the UKs commitment to retaining The enacted Defense Appropriations bill D Australia 3% a leading position in Combat Air.
The strategy maintains support for our medium-term 2 E Other international markets 20% will enable long-term planning and joint planning assumptions and positive momentum government and industry investment in for military readiness and modernisation next-generation combat air systems.
The portfolio of the US-based business is well aligned with customer In light of the UKs referendum decision to priorities and growth areas, which include leave the EU, the government has signalled combat vehicles, precision-guided munitions, itsintent to continue to play a major role in naval ship repair and modernisation services, defence and security co-operation in Europe.
electronic warfare, and space security.
The final agreement of the terms of the BAE Systems has strong positions on a number UKsexit from the EU after March 2019 of premier defence programmes, including willbe important to enable companies F-35 Lightning II, Paladin self-propelled toprepare for potential changes in the howitzer, Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle regulatory environment.
There is relatively andAmphibious Combat Vehicle, and we limited UK-EU trading and movement of area leader in advanced electronic systems, EUnationals into and out of BAE Systems real-time intelligence and analysis, naval gun UKbusinesses, and the resulting Brexit systems and artillery systems.
near-term impacts across the business are likely to be limited.
BAE Systems will support In addition to our position on US defence the UK government in achieving its aim of programmes, the US-based portfolio is also ensuring that the UK maintains its key role focused on Foreign Military Sales and direct inEuropean security and defence post-Brexit, international sales to allied nations.
and to strengthen bilateral relationships with We continue to deliver on existing commercial key partners in Europe.
programmes, including engine and flight The UK government provides vital support controls, and electric drive propulsion systems.
inthe pursuit of international export opportunities, recognising the value that BAE Systems and the defence industry contributes to the UK economy.
BAE Systems plays an important role in providing capabilities to support the UK government and armed forces across the air, maritime, land and cyber domains.
Ourinvolvement across the major UK defenceprogrammes, including Typhoon aircraft, Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers, Type 26frigates, and Astute and Dreadnought Class submarines, maintains ourdiverse skillsets, allowing us to provide avital advantage to ourcustomers.
Our UK-managed cyber business has a focused investment strategy to ensure that 1.
Revenue plus the Groups share of revenue wesupport our commercial and government ofequityaccounted investments.
customers as cyber security becomes an 2.
Includes 0.7bn 4% of sales generated increasingly important part of a sophisticated undertheTyphoon workshare agreement  GmbH.
BAE Systems 20 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Kingdom of Saudi BAE Systems is one of the BAE Systems has many strong Arabiacontinues to be largest defence companies and enduring relationships in asignificant military power inAustralia, with strong other international markets.
andone of thelargest activities across all domains.
Regional security tensions, the growing emphasis on indigenous capabilities and defencemarkets globally.
Regional instability and the pace of military varying economic conditions continue to modernisation in the Asia-Pacific region SaudiArabia has a strong commitment influence defence spending internationally.
continue to drive the governments todefenceand security spending driven InAsia-Pacific and the Middle East, commitment to defence spending, with byregional security instability.
BAE Systems has developed and seeks  programmes under tofurther relationships with partners Saudi Arabias Vision 2030 strategy wayin the air, maritime and land domains.
topromote In-Kingdom industrialisation The government has indicated itsintent anddiversification away from reliance In Qatar, the contract to provide Typhoon togrow defence spending by committing onoilcontinues to shape our activities in andHawk aircraft along with a bespoke tospend 2% of GDP by 2020 21.
As part support ofSaudi Arabias national objectives support and training package became ofthiscommitment, the government has of technology development, local skills, effective in September.
made clear its objective to build a stronger andthe development of an indigenous and moresustainable domestic defence In Oman, where we completed the delivery defence industry and capability.
Through industry, ensuring that overtime the nation ofthe final Typhoons in 2018, we provide therestructuring ofthe Groups portfolio has in place a sovereign industrial base that support to Typhoon and Hawk aircraft and ofinterests in a number of Kingdom of has the skills, knowledge and capability to naval vessels.
SaudiArabia industrial companies along with manage and support the platforms and sustaining current industrialised capability and We have a strong presence in Sweden systems it has invested in.
building onour stronghistory in Saudi Arabia, throughour BAE Systems Hgglunds business we areworking in partnership to continue to We are well positioned to support this supplying and supporting tracked vehicles deliver thesepriorities with theSaudi Arabian throughan established business and a forinternational customers.
MilitaryIndustries SAMI organisation to workforce based at more than 25 sites In Turkey we are collaborating on the first explore how we can collaborate to deliver acrossthe country, in addition to our ability development phase of an indigenous further In-Kingdom Industrial Participation.
toleverage our international positions within fifth-generation fighter jet, TF-X, for the theGroup to support domestic Australian We remain well placed as a leading Turkish Air Force and we maintain our position products in export markets.
in-countrycontractor in support of air in armoured combat vehicles through the defenceplatforms and training systems We currently provide support to the FNSS joint venture.
fortheRoyal Saudi Air Force, as well as  through engineering, In India, we have long-established support for mine countermeasure vessels programme management and sustainment relationships with local industry partners forthe Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
solutions, including the Jindalee Operational Hindustan Aeronautics Limited on Hawk RadarNetwork upgrade, Hawk Lead-In aircraft and with Mahindra Defence Systems Fightersupport, F-35 Lightning II sustainment, on M777 ultra-lightweight howitzers.
and Anzac frigate support and upgrade.
Theaward to BAE Systems Australia in 2018 In Malaysia, we are a supplier to the armed ofthe nine-ship Hunter Class Frigate forces, both directly and through joint programme, to be built at the ASC shipyard ventures.
We have set up a Global Engineering facility inAdelaide, will in time give the Centre in Kuala Lumpur focusing on local business a balanced portfolio of build and delivery and global support of our cyber support work.
Our US businesses export combat vehicles andprecision weapon systems to a number ofinternational customers and leverage further international markets through our partnerships in defence and commercial electronics.
Through our shareholding in MBDA, our position in the missiles and missile systems market continues to grow in European and other international markets.
