Effective 1 January 2018, BAE Systems has five principal Segmental reportingsegments, Electronic Systems, Cyber & Intelligence, Platforms & Services US, Air and Maritime, looking forward which align with the strategic direction of the Group.
1 2018 sales Electronic Systems comprises Cyber & Intelligence the USand UK-based comprisesthe US-based E A electronics activities, including Intelligence & Security business electronic warfare systems, and UK-headquartered electro-optical sensors, military Applied Intelligence business, B and commercial digital engine and covers the Groups cyber and flight controls, precision security, secure government, D guidance and seeker solutions, and commercial and financial C next-generation military security activities.
A Electronic Systems 22% communications systems Intelligence & Security B Cyber & Intelligence 9% anddata links, persistent The outlook for the US government services C Platforms & Services US 16% sector is stable, although market conditions D Air 37% surveillance capabilities, and remain highly competitive and continue E Maritime 16% hybrid electric drive systems.
The US business remains well positioned and will continue to leverage its Electronic Systems is well positioned to address established market positions and reputation current and evolving priority programmes 2 for reliable and adaptable performance to 2018 underlying EBITA from its strong franchise positions in meet customer demands for innovative, electronicwarfare, precision guidance and cost-effective and cyber-hardened solutions E seeker solutions.
Electronic Systems has a to pursue recompeted contracts and new long-standing programme of research and business across its portfolio of sustainment, A development, and its focus remains on integration and modernisation solutions maintaining a diverse portfolio of defence formilitary, intelligence and nuclear andcommercial products and capabilities triadcustomers.
Applied Intelligence The business expects to benefit from D Strong market demand and continued B itsabilityto apply innovative technology investment in people and products position solutions that meet defence customers the business for revenue growth in the C changing requirements.
As a result, the medium term.
Profitability is expected business is well positioned for the medium tocontinue to benefit from focus on A Electronic Systems 30% term with strong significant roles on operational efficiency and cost control.
B Cyber & Intelligence 6% F-35Lightning II and classified programmes, C Platforms & Services US 11% aswell as with specific products such as D Air 43% APKWS.
Over the longer term, the business E Maritime 10% ispoised to leverage its technology strength inemerging areas of demand such as space resilience and autonomous vehicles.
In the commercial aviation market, Electronic Systems technology innovations are enabling the business to maintain its long-standing customer positions and to compete for, andwin, new business.
R evenue plus the Groups share of revenue of equity accounted investments.
Operating profit excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense of equity accounted investments EBITA, and non-recurring items.
BAE Systems 64 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Our 19 markets Platforms & Services US, Air comprises the Groups Maritime comprises the withoperations in the US, UK UK-based air activities for Groups UK-based maritime and Sweden, manufactures European and International and land activities.
combat vehicles, weapons markets and US Programmes Maritime In Maritime, there remains pressure andmunitions, and delivers and its businesses in Saudi ontheRoyal Navys near-term budgets services and sustainment Arabia and Australia, together  environment inshipsupport and upgrade.
Overall the activities, including ship repair, with its 37.5% interest in the outlookisstable based on the long-term and the management and European MBDA joint venture.
operation ofgovernmentFuture UK sales are underpinned by existing Within Submarines, the business is executing contracts for both Typhoon production the Astute Class programme, with four boats owned munitions facilities.
Production of rear fuselage still in build.
On the Dreadnought programme The combat vehicles business is underpinned assemblies for F-35 Lightning II willincrease manufacturing activities continue on the by a growing order backlog and incumbencies over the next two years to reach its expected firstof class boat.
Investment continues on key franchise programmes.
These include peak rate for the next decade.
The business intheBarrow facilities in order to provide the US Armys Armored Multi-Purpose plays a significant role in the F-35 sustainment thecapabilities to deliver these long-term Vehicle, M109A7 self-propelled howitzer, programme in support ofLockheed Martin.
programmes through the next decade Bradley upgrade programmes, the Amphibious andbeyond.
Defence and security remain priorities for the Combat Vehicle: and the CV90 and BvS10 UK government, reaffirmed in the Modernising In shipbuilding, sales are underpinned by the export programmes from our BAE Systems Defence Programme and the recently contracts to manufacture the Queen Elizabeth Hgglunds business.
announced UK Combat Air Strategy, which Class aircraft carriers, Type 26 frigates and FNSS continues to execute on its order book provides the base to enable long-term River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels.
The of both Turkish and international orders.
planning and investment in a key strategic through-life support of surface ship platforms partof the business.
provides a sustainable business intechnical These long-term contracts and franchise services and mid-life upgrades.
positions make the combat vehicles business Discussions continue with current and well placed for growth in the medium term prospective customers in relation to potential Land UK and the team is closely following the further contract awards for Typhoon and Hawk.
The Land UK business continues to deliver USArmys acquisition plans for its next support to armoured vehicle and bridging The UK Typhoon support operation is generation of combat vehicles.
systems in UK and international markets, underpinned by a long-term partnering munitions under the 15-year Munitions In the maritime domain, the sector has a arrangement with the Ministry of Defence.
Acquisition Supply Solution partnering strong position on naval gun programmes In Saudi Arabia, the In-Kingdom Industrial agreement secured in 2008 and 40mm andUS Navy ship repair activities where Participation programme continues to make cased-telescopic cannons for the UK and thebusiness has invested in facilities in key good progress consistent with our long-term French armies.
This capitalised infrastructure strategy, as well as the Saudi Arabian represents a high barrier to entry, and the In January 2019 BAE Systems entered into governments National Transformation Plan business remains well aligned tothe anagreement with Rheinmetall to create and Vision 2030.
In order to provide ongoing USNavysoperational strategy.
ajoint UK-based military land vehicle capability to international customers, the design, manufacturing and support business.
The Group remains a leading provider of company is reliant on the continued approval Rheinmetall will purchase a 55% stake gunsystems and precision strike capabilities of export licences by a number of intheexisting BAE Systems UK-based and, in the complex ordnance manufacturing governments.
Any significant change in UK combatvehicles business for 28.6m, business, continues to manage and operate orforeign government policy in this regard withBAE Systems retaining 45%.
The new the US Armys Radford and Holston munitions may have an adverse effect on the Groups business is well positioned to address the facilities underpreviously awarded contracts.
provision of capability to the Kingdom of upcoming Challenger II upgrade programme.
Saudi Arabia and the Group is liaising closely with the UK government in working to reducethe impact of any such occurrence.
The Australian business has long-term sustainment and upgrade activities in maritime, air, wide-area surveillance, missile defence and electronic systems.
It will expand into ship design and productionisation on the Hunter Class frigate programme from 2019.
MBDA has a strong order book which is driving increasing production and sales.
Development programmes continue to improve the long-term capabilities of the business.
