Electronic Systems Segmental review continued Electronic Combat provides a depth of Controls & Avionics develops andproduces Electronic Systems comprises capability in advanced electronic warfare electronics for military and commercial aircraft, the USand UK-based solutions for airborne applications, including including fly-by-wire flight controls, full electronic support, electronic attack, and authority digital engine controls, flight deck electronics activities, including electronic protection technologies.
systems, cabin management systems, and electronic warfare systems, mission computers.
Survivability, Targeting & Sensing exploits electro-optical sensors, military theelectro-optical and infrared spectrum Power & Propulsion Solutions delivers toprovide leading threat warning and infrared electricpropulsion and power management and commercial digital engine countermeasures systems, precision guidance performance, with innovative products and flight controls, precision and seeker solutions, advanced targeting andsolutions that advance vehicle mobility, solutions, head-up displays, and  and capability in the transit, guidance and seeker solutions, art tactical imaging systems.
military, marine and rail markets.
next-generation military C4ISR Systems addresses the market for communications systems actionable intelligence through innovative technical solutions for airborne persistent anddata links, persistent surveillance, identification systems, signals surveillance capabilities, and intelligence, underwater and surface warfare solutions, and space resiliency products.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Defence and commercial % Controls & Land Avionics Power Commercial Defence Air & Propulsion 17% Electronic Solutions 2 2% 78% 79% Combat Maritime 24% 30% 4% C4ISR Survivability, Systems Targeting & Sensing 26% 20% BAE Systems 44 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Employees 15,900 Operational and strategic key points Continued production ramp-ups on New facilities being established in F-35Lightning II hardware, with initial Huntsville, Alabama, and Manchester, funding onLow-Rate Initial Production NewHampshire to increase capacity Lot13 andexpand operations Further awards for APKWS laser-guided Delivered the 10,000th electric hybrid rockets secured worth nearly $400m bussystem and continue to pursue 314m and production capacity ramping expanding capabilities in the air and towards 25,000 units per annum maritime domains Continued growth in classified work, increasing to 11% of the business Our strategy in action APKWS ramping-up to meetincreased Financial performance demand Financial performance measures Financial performance 3 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 2017 2017 2 2 2018 restated 2018 restated We are delivering APKWS laserSales KPI 3,965m 3,598m Revenue 3,965m 3,598m guided rockets tomeet customer Underlying EBITA KPI 606m 541m Operating profit 590m 521m demands while maintaining an Return on sales 15.3% 15.0% Return on revenue 14.9% 14.5% unwavering commitment to quality.
Operating business Cash flow from KPI Our state-of-the-art precision guidance cash flow 431m 450m operating activities 575m 569m system manufacturing facilities in 1 Order intake KPI 4,624m 4,175m NewHampshire and Texas, along with 1 Order backlog 5.4bn 4.8bn astrong supplier network, have enabled us to accelerate full-rate production, Sales compared to 2017, in US dollar As expected, cash conversion of EBITA exceed manufacturing expectations, terms, were up 14% at $5.3bn 4.0bn.
improved in the second half of the year anddeliver units to meet the increased Thegrowth came in the electronic warfare andwas at 81% for the full year excluding customer demand.
business from the F-35 programme as well pension deficit funding.
Capital expenditure APKWS is experiencing growing as increasing classified activity.
Asexpected, in the business amounted to some $200m demand, and our Survivability, sales of the APKWS product doubled over 150m.
Targeting& Sensing team continues the year and now represent one of the top Order backlog was secured at a record high toramp-up production capacity as it three sales lines inthe segment.
Commercial of $6.9bn 5.4bn, following awards for builds toward an annual production sales of engineandflight controls, and further F-35 systems, classified electronic levelof 25,000 units.
hybrid electric drive units also grew, and warfare activity and APKWS units.
Underlying EBITA was up to $809m 606m, delivering a return on sales of15.3%, within our guidance range.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Prior year comparatives have been restated upon the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts withCustomers.
See note 37 to the Group accounts fordetails regarding the restatement.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 45 Segmental review continued Operational performance For over a decade, we have provided C4ISR Systems full-lifecycle support as the prime mission As a leading provider of space-qualified Electronic Combat system integrator for the US Air Forces subsystems and components, we continue to BAE Systems continues to sustain its leadership EC-130H Compass Call stand-off electronic experience growth in the areas of integrated position in the US electronic warfare market attack platform, and we will continue to on-board processors, reconfigurable processing with production continuing to ramp-up across sustain the existing EC-130H electronics.
a number of programmes, some of which Wealso execute multiple contracts to areclassified.
We continue to execute the Network Tactical cross-deck the mission electronics onto Common Data Link programme to provide Low-Rate Initial Production Lot 11 hardware anewGulfstream G550 business jet for theUS Navy with the ability to simultaneously deliveries continue on the F-35 Lightning II theUS Air Force.
transmit and receive real-time intelligence, programme.
We have received initial Lot 12 Due to the sensitive nature of electronic surveillance and reconnaissance data over and 13 funding, and are currently negotiating combat systems and technology, many of multiple data links for a system to be fielded Lots 12, 13 and 14 with an anticipated final ourprogrammes are classified.
As a world on various surface ship types.
The programme award value exceeding $1bn 0.8bn.
leader in electronic warfare, we continue completed Critical Design Review in 2018.
BAE Systems is also executing an Electronic toexperience growth in these increasingly Warfare Performance Based Logistics contract Since winning the Geospatial Data Services important areas.
from Lockheed Martin to provide material Foundational GEOINT Content Management availability and support for the F-35 Survivability, Targeting & Sensing programme in 2014, we have been awarded programme over a five-year period.
Our Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System orders valued at $240m 188m and are APKWS laser-guided rocket is experiencing meeting delivery requirements in assisting Following our 2015 selection by Boeing to growing demand, with over 25,000 units USintelligence community customers with develop and manufacture the next-generation produced as at year end.
In addition to thedevelopment of advanced geospatial digital electronic warfare system for the expanding USmilitary use, the system is intelligence data collection and processing USAirForces Eagle Passive Active Warning generating strong international attention, solutions.
Survivability System EPAWSS programme with20 nations expressing formal interest.
toupgrade up to 200 F-15E aircraft, we are As a provider of signals intelligence Theprogramme has received awards totalling currently executing the $194m 152m capabilities, user acceptance under the nearly $400m 314m this year, as part of engineering and manufacturing development $132m 104m Tactical Signals Intelligence a2016 Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract, with a critical system delivery Payloads programme for the US Armys contract.
Production capacity is set to increase completed in 2018.
GrayEagle unmanned aircraft is complete.
from 10,000 units per annum to 25,000 units Follow-on awards are expected in 2019.
Under a contract by Boeing and Warner per annum to meet the increased demand for Robins Air Logistics Complex totalling more cost-effective guided munitions for US armed Work continues on state-of-the-art than $1bn 0.8bn, BAE Systems completed forces and allied international customers.
 for the US Navys the installation of the Digital Electronic P-8APoseidon maritime surveillance We are developing a next-generation missile Warfare System DEWS on new F-15 aircraft, aircraftprogramme which is expected warning system for the US Army under the and continues to upgrade existing F-15 aircraft tobeworth $1.2bn 0.9bn over its life.
Limited Interim Missile Warning System andprovide spare units and modules for an Wehave delivered our hundredth system.
We are also executing reviews and initial prototypes have been Controls & Avionics a $311m 244m contract to provide DEWS completed on schedule.
BAE Systems is a major supplier of full tosupport the sale of new F-15 aircraft to authority digital engine controls FADECs, another international customer.
The US Armys Family of Weapon Sights fly-by-wire flight controls, vehicle Crew Served programme is in development Production of BAE Systems sensor technology management systems, mission systems, testing.
This seven-year contract awarded for the Long Range Anti-Ship Missile LRASM andcabin and flight deck systems.
in2016 has a potential value of up to continues with orders from prime contractor $384m 301m.
The development of the integrated flight Lockheed Martin.
We provided the sensor control electronics and remote electronic units technology that supported several successful Both fixed and rotary-wing demonstrations for Boeings next-generation 777X aircraft is tests of LRASM leading to a successful Early ofour Striker II helmet-mounted display progressing, with all hardware in qualification Operational Capability on the B1-B platform.
HMD are ongoing and we continue to and systems integration testing to support We have also been awarded the LRASM validate it as a readily accessible HMD for a2019 first flight.
RadioFrequency Sensor 110 Production existing aircraft with analogue-based or Buildvalued at over $75m 59m.
Flight testing of the Boeing 737 MAX 7 aircraft is continuing with our spoiler controls, The LiteHUD Head-Up Display has completed flight deck systems and utilities electronics, development testing and has been selected with entry into service planned for 2019. bycritical launch customers for integration Initialdevelopment has begun on the onmultiple platforms, including the Textron changesrequired for the MAX 10 variant.
BAE Systems 46 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action Improving reliability Development of our civil active inceptors for Power & Propulsion Solutions the Gulfstream G500 and Embraer KC390 This year we achieved a major milestone, aircraft is complete and aircraft certification delivering our 10,000th electric hybrid bus has been received.
A derivative of the active system and we continue to pursue expanding inceptors, the LinkEdge Active Parallel our capabilities for application in the maritime Actuation Subsystem, is being developed domain, and for the airborne market by In the commercial aircraft industry, forthe Chinook CH-47 and is currently in marrying our safety-critical know-how from extending the life of ageing assets integration testing.
the Controls & Avionics business with our isessential to airlines operating hybrid electric expertise.
As transit operators FADEC Alliance, a joint venture between in cities such as San Francisco, Boston, atpeakefficiency.
We offer costGEAviation and FADEC International Montreal, London and Brussels lean toward effective overhaul and asset ourjointventure with Safran Electronics more electric power, our solutions meet management programmes &Defense, has broadened its agreement operational goals towards totally emission-free withGE Aviation to include collaboration designed to keep fleetsflying.
Weare prepared for the future of onsystem architectures and technologies for transit withzero emission solutions as early These programmes include overhaul future engines.
FADEC Alliance will develop, providers of battery-electric propulsion options for flight controls and full produce and support FADECs for all future solutions and hydrogen fuel cell-based authority digital engine controls, and GEAviation commercial engines.
Paris has recently become the latest lease and exchange arrangements that FADEC for the Boeing 777X has completed city to commit to battery-electric vehicles ensure spare parts are available when certification testing and Low-Rate Initial powered by our technology and in the US needed.
Programmes can be tailored Production will begin in 2019. more than 20 hydrogen fuel cell transit buses tomeet the needs of each customer Development has begun on the nextare operating with our propulsion systems, andare a proven discriminator in the generation advanced digital flight control which are expected to pave the way for the success of the aftermarket segment computer for the F-16 aircraft for the worlds first passenger vessel powered by ofthe business.
One such programme is for Slat Flap On the F-35 Lightning II programme, We are also using our clean technology to Control Computers SFCC, launched Low-Rate Initial ProductionLot11 is ongoing power passenger vessels, research vessels, inautumn 2018.
SFCCs are essential for the vehicle management computer andinland towboats to address the increased avionics used during take-off and andactive inceptor system equipment, and demand for environmentally friendly landing to control speed on more than asuccessful systems requirements review marinevessels.
This system was washeld on the  our second product-specific aftermarket F-35vehicle management computer programme launched during the period, Looking forward technology refresh.
following the 777 Actuator Control Forward-looking information for the Electronics Exchange programme.
Electronic Systems reporting segment isprovided later in this report.
Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com Segmental 64 looking forward BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 47
