Platforms & Services US Segmental review continued US Combat Vehicles focuses on a portfolio BAE Systems Hgglunds focuses on the Platforms & Services US, oftracked combat vehicles, amphibious tracked vehicle market for Swedish and withoperations in the US, UK vehicles, accessories, protection systems and international customers.
tactical support services for the US military and Sweden, manufactures FNSS, the Turkish land systems business in and international customers.
which BAE Systems holds a 49% interest, combat vehicles, weapons Weapon Systems focuses on naval weapons, produces and upgrades tracked and andmunitions, and delivers artillery, advanced weapons, precision wheeledmilitary vehicles for Turkish munitions, high explosives and propellants for andinternational customers.
services and sustainment US, UKand international customers.
Services activities, including naval ship include complex munition site management and operation of the US Armys Holston repair, and the management andRadford facilities.
and operation of governmentUS Ship Repair is a major provider of owned munitions facilities.
non-nuclear ship repair, modernisation, overhaul and conversions to the US Navy, government and commercial maritime customers.
It has four operational sites intheUS located on the Atlantic and Pacificcoasts and Hawaii.
Sales by domain % Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Air FNSS BAE Systems Land 1% Maritime Services Platforms 4% Hgglunds US Combat 59% 40% 72% 28% Vehicles 5% 30% US Ship Repair Weapon Systems 28% 33% BAE Systems 52 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Employees 1 1,900 Operational and strategic key points Selected by the US Marine Corps for the In commercial shipbuilding, activities Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.1 programme continue to complete the final ship One of two competitors selected Divested the Mobile, Alabama fortheUSArmys Mobile Protected shipbuildingyard Firepowerprogramme Management changes made and Deliveries of the first batch of M777ultrainvestment in process and automation lightweight howitzers to theIndian Army improvements to position the business forits upcoming growth phase Continued to deliver Mk45 Gun Systems toUS and international customers An accident in a nitrocellulose drying facilityat Radford sadly resulted in one Secured $1.3bn 1.0bn in new orders fatality and injuries to two employees acrossthe four US shipyards Our strategy in action Supporting US Navy cruiser modernisation Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 3 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 2017 2017 2 2 2018 restated 2018 restated BAE Systems continues to play Sales KPI 3,005m 2,951m Revenue 2,864m 2,848m akey role in supporting the Underlying EBITA 210m 237m Operating profit 161m 213m KPI modernisation ofthe US Navys Return on sales 7.0% 8.0% Return on revenue 5.6% 7.5% fleet of 22 guided-missile cruisers.
Operating business Cash flow from KPI Major modernisation work aboard cash flow 30 m 222m operating activities 31m 286m theUSS Gettysburg under a contract 1 Order intake KPI 3,693m 3,542m awarded to our Norfolk, Virginia, 1 Order backlog 5.4bn 4.2bn shipyard in 2018 begins in early 2019.
Inaddition to the Gettysburg, across our Sales in the year, in US dollar terms, were Cash flow performance in the year reflects four US shipyards, we are working aboard up5% to $4.0bn 3.0bn but growth was advance payment utilisation on international four other cruisers in various phases behind guidance, due to the delayed Paladin programmes, some late customer receipts, ofthe modernisation programme.
production order award, and the Ship Repair delivery delays to be recovered in the near For the Gettysburg, our scope of work customer requirement to award each ship term, and new business ramp-up.
includes upgrading theships weapons individually, rather than multi-ship awards, Order backlog increased to $6.8bn 5.4bn, and engineering equipment: supporting meant we have not been able to maximise supportive of future growth expectations.
theinstallation of a new Aegis combat shipyard utilisation.
Key awards in the year included Low-Rate system, communications suite and Return on sales for the year was at Initial Production for the Amphibious tactical network: and renovation 7.0%following the charges taken in Combat Vehicle for the US Marine Corps, ofthecrews livingspaces.
thefirsthalf of the year on the remaining theArmored Multi-Purpose Vehicle, The Gettysburg is scheduled to be commercial shipbuilding contract and Low-Rate Initial Production on Paladin, completed in mid-2020 andrejoin forthesubcontractor performance issues andthe Mobile Protected Firepower theoperational fleet soon thereafter.
onthe Radford facilities construction engineering and manufacturing The work is expected to extend the life programme.
There were no further charges development phase for the US Army, ofthe 28-year-old warship to 2035. taken on those programmes in the second aswellas growth in Ship Repair.
The charges impacted return on sales by150bps.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Prior year comparatives have been restated upon the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts withCustomers.
See note 37 to the Group accounts fordetails regarding the restatement.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 53 Segmental review continued Our strategy in action India receives itsfirstM777s Operational performance cumulative value of $1.2bn 0.9bn.
In 2019 we have been awarded contract modifications US Combat Vehicles worth up to $575m 451m for Low-Rate The business continues to address Initial Production options.
manufacturing and execution challenges onsome programmes asit ramps-up Work continues on a $365m 287m contract production levels.
Measures undertaken for thefourth Low-Rate Initial Production The first M777 ultra-lightweight intheperiod include management changes phase for 48 Paladin self-propelled howitzer howitzers have been delivered and investments in modernising facilities and ammunition carrier vehicles sets, with toIndiaunder the landmark Foreign andmanufacturing technologies, to include anoption for an additional 12.
A full-rate Military Sale agreement between automation and robotic welding.
production decision is expected in 2019. theUS and Indian governments.
In June, BAE Systems and industry teammate The business is nearing completion Iveco Defence Vehicles were selected to We will deliver 145 M777A2 gun ona$322m 253m engineering and supplyAmphibious Combat Vehicles ACV systems under a $542m 426m contract manufacturing development contract to for the USMarine Corps under the issued inJanuary 2017.
Deliveries began address thespace, weight, power and cooling  ACV 1.1 programme inthesecond half of 2018, with the first limitations of the Bradley family of vehicles phase.
Low-Rate Initial Production has begun batch transferred during an official andto prepare the vehicle for communication under a contract initially valued at $198m ceremony in November.
In June we received 155m for 30 vehicles, with options for a$348m 273m contract, initially funded BAE Systems is building the first atotal of 204 vehicles worth up to $1.2bn at$132m 104m, to upgrade 164 vehicles 25gunsfully assembled, the remaining 0.9bn.
120 guns willbe assembled in India contractfor Low-Rate Initial Production 2 byMahindra Defence Systems Limited We continue to work on US Army foran additional 30 vehicles was awarded under an arrangement designed to contractsawarded in 2017 for upgrades inDecember.
support defence industrial co-operation andsustainment of M88 recovery vehicles, In December, the US Army awarded us a and promote local economic growth.
toinclude upgrades to the Heavy Equipment $376m 295m contract under the Mobile Recovery Combat Utility Lift Evacuation The delivery of the M777s marks Protected Firepower programme for the Systems HERCULES configuration.
In July, akeystep toward modernising and engineering and manufacturing development wereceived a $114m 90m contract for strengthening the Indian Armys phase for rapid prototyping efforts and with thefollow-on production.
Low-Rate Initial Production options included.
Internationally, we completed deliveries We were one of two competitors selected Group strategic More online in2018 of 41 Assault Amphibious Vehicles forthis phase.
The Army is expected to 18 framework baesystems.
com AAVs to Japan under contracts totalling downselect to a single contractor for the $165m 130m.
We continue to work on Low-Rate Initial Production phase in the anadditional 11 vehicles for Japan.
23 AAVs ordered by Brazil under an $82m On the US Armys Armored Multi-Purpose 64m contract were also delivered, and work Vehicle programme, we received a $298m has begun on an $84m 66m contract with 234m contract to procure long-lead material Taiwan for 36 AAVs.
to support Low-Rate Initial Production.
We continue to execute a $54m 42m Including the engineering and manufacturing contract to provide 32 upgraded self-propelled development phase with options for 280 howitzers tothe Brazilian Army, with first to300 vehicles under Low-Rate Initial deliveries totake place in 2019.
Production, the programme has a potential BAE Systems 54 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Weapon Systems In the complex ordnance manufacturing BAE Systems Hgglunds We have delivered the first M777 business, we continue to manage and operate With an installed base of nearly 1,300 ultra-lightweight howitzers to the Indian the USArmys Radford and Holston munitions CV90vehicles in Sweden and across six Armyunder a $542m 426m Foreign Military facilities under previously-awarded contracts.
otherinternational markets, the business Sale contract to provide 145 M777s.
We are In September, the Army awarded a $97m continues to executeand pursue a number building the first 25 guns in our facilities, 76m contract modification for the ofsignificant CV90 contracts.
withthe remaining systems assembled in construction of a natural gas-fired steam We continue to evaluate the opportunity Indiaby Mahindra Defence Systems, our facility at Holston.
Also at Holston, we are forthe CV90 intoAustralias LAND 400 selected supplier, who has established an progressing on modernisation contracts Phase3 competition for a Mounted Close assembly andintegration facility in India.
totalling $135m 106m for waste water Combat Capability family of vehicles.
management and a $146m 115m We are executing on a $47m 37m contract Ourbidwith teammate Patria for the contractfor the construction of a nitric acid modification from the US Navy in December LAND400 Phase2 Combat Reconnaissance recovery facility to produce larger quantities 2017 to deliver four additional Mk45 Gun Vehicle wasunsuccessful.
At Radford, Systems upgraded to increase firepower subcontractor performance issues and We continue to advance local industrial andextend range.
We also received contracts costoverruns on the nitrocellulose facility co-operation arrangements with Czech to provide additional 57mm Mk110 gun modernisation programme have been companies in support of an anticipated systems for the Navys Littoral Combat Ship encountered, impacting the financial bidofthe CV90 for the countrys next programme, and the US Coast Guards performance of the sector.
National Security Cutter Legend Class and Offshore Patrol Cutter programmes.
We are saddened to report that an accident Work continues to refurbish Swedish on 11 June in a nitrocellulose drying facility CV90vehicles under a contract awarded In March, we received a contract to provide inRadford resulted in one fatality and injuries in2016, and we are integrating Mjlner eight payload tubes for two block V version to two employees.
The health and safety of mortar systems on 40 Swedish CV90s Virginia Class submarines, each featuring a our employees has always been and continues undera separate contract.
new payload module for increased firepower.
to be our highest priority.
Investigations Initial deliveries have begun under a contract Work continues under a 2017 contract concluded the accident likely resulted from for 32 BvS10 all-terrain vehicles for Austria.
todeliver 155mm BONUS ammunition to aunique set of conditions, and processes Weare also pursuing opportunities for the theSwedish Army, and we were awarded weremodified to prevent future occurrences.
BvS10 and its unarmoured sister Beowulf afurther contract in 2018 for delivery of US Ship Repair vehicle in the US.
The business As a leading provider of US Navy ship isdelivering 24 additional Archer artillery FNSS repairand modernisation services, we are systems under a 2016 contract modification FNSS, our land systems joint venture based strategically located in four of the US Navys with the Swedish government.
In December, inTurkey, continues to perform under its primary ports, with the homeported fleet we received a contract from the Swedish $524m 411m programme to produce projected to grow in San Diego and Armed Forces for two of thenewest 2598x8 wheeled armoured vehicles for Jacksonville.
Our shipyards are equipped 40Mk4gun systems.
toservice a broad range of maritime vessels, We continue to execute on a $183m 144m to include cruisers, destroyers, amphibious Programme deliveries are on schedule contract to provide the Maritime Indirect Fire warships and littoral combat ships for the underthe contract with Oman for PARS System for the Royal Navys Type 26 frigate.
USNavy, as well as select private and Wheeled Armoured Vehicles in 8x8 and commercial vessels.
We achieved a fifth consecutive award term providing world-wide lifecycle support for the In 2018, we secured firm orders across Work progresses under multiple contracts M777 ultra-lightweight howitzers that are in ourUSshipyards totalling approximately toTurkish Armed Forces, including a 278m service with the US Marine Corps and Army.
$1.3bn 1.0bn, including awards to 250m contract to supply 260 Anti-Tank This support contract includes engineering modernisetheUSS Philippine Sea in Vehicles, an 84m 75m contract for air maintenance, parts repair replacement and Jacksonville: theUSSGettysburg in defence vehicles, and a155m 139m other fieldand depot-level service support.
Norfolk:andthe USSSterett in San Diego.
contract to provide 27amphibious The M777 team, from both the US and UK, assaultvehicles.
In commercial shipbuilding, completion, has now scored five consecutive excellent outfitting and delivery activities for the ratings, a 100% record, resulting in the finalship, Hull 113, continued.
Hull 112 Looking forward contracts extension until May 2023. remains a completed asset held on our Forward-looking information for the balance sheet awaiting the identification Platforms & Services US reporting ofanew buyer and final sea trials.
segmentisprovided later in this report.
Earlier in 2018, we ceased operations at ourMobile shipyard and in October, we Segmental 64 looking forward completed the divestiture of the shipyard.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 55 Air Segmental review continued Our UK-based business includes programmes In Australia, the business primarily delivers Air comprises the Groups in European and International Markets for upgrade and support programmes for UK-based air activities for theproduction of Typhoon combat and customers in the defence and commercial Hawktrainer aircraft, support and upgrades sectors across the air, maritime and land European and International for Typhoon, Tornado and Hawk aircraft, domains.
Services contracts include the Markets, and US Programmes, anddevelopment of next-generation provision of sustainment, training solutions Unmanned Air Systems and defence and upgrades.
and its businesses in Saudi information systems, as well as US The Type 26 frigate was selected for the Arabia and Australia, together Programmes, primarily the UK-based Commonwealth of Australias Hunter Class F-35Lightning II manufacture, engineering with its 37.5% interest in the nine-ship Future Frigate programme, with development andsupport activity.
aframework agreement including the scope European MBDA joint venture.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides for theinitial design and productionisation operational capability support to the phase signed in December.
countrysair and naval forces through MBDA is a leading global prime contractor UK Saudi  ofmissiles and missile systems across the air, programmes.
The Saudi British Defence maritime and land domains.
Co-operation Programme and Salam Typhoonproject provide for multi-year contracts between the governments.
Sales by line of business % Sales analysis: Platforms and services % European and International Markets Services Platforms 2 8% MBDA 62% 38% 16% US Programmes 1 1% Australia Saudi Arabia 9% 36% BAE Systems 56 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Employees 27, 8 00 Operational and strategic key points Contract with the Qatar government for Integration of F-35 Lightning II onto aircraft thesupply of 24 Typhoon and nine Hawk carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth commenced, aircraft, air and ground training, and ground and the first F-35 deck landing completed support became effective in September.
Order intake of 3.2bn for support services MBDA contract for the supply of missiles up to 2022 in respect of the continuation also became effective ofTyphoon support in Saudi Arabia Signature in March 2018 of a Memorandum Current German government position ofIntent between the Kingdom of Saudi onexport licensing may affect the Groups Arabia andthe UK government to aim to ability to provide capability to Saudi Arabia finalise discussions for the purchase of a which may have a consequential impact further 48 Typhoon aircraft on the Groups financial performance RAF declaration of Typhoon Centurion andrelationships standard, enabling transition of capabilities Type 26 frigate selected for the Our strategy in action from Tornado to Typhoon Commonwealth of Australias Hunter Announcement of UK Combat Air Strategy Classnine-ship Future Frigate programme State of Qatar and launch of the Tempest programme withthe framework agreement including theA$1.9bn 1.1bn scope for the initial becomes ninth Completion ofthe final four of 12 Typhoon design and productionisation phase signed deliveries toOman countrytochoose in December In November the first flight of a Hawk Typhoon assembled in Saudi Arabia took place The contract between BAE Systems Financial performance andthe Government oftheState of Financial performance measures Financial performance Qatar for the supply of 24 Typhoon 3 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS andnine Hawkaircraft to the Qatar 2017 2017 Emiri Air Force, along with a bespoke 2 2 2018 restated 2018 restated support and training package, Sales KPI 6,712m 7,210m Revenue 5,579m 6,312m became effective in September.
Underlying EBITA KPI 859m 967m Operating profit 810m 918m Itrepresented asignificant step Return on sales 12.8% 13.4% Return on revenue 14.5% 14.5% inour long-term relationship with Operating business Cash flow from KPI the State of Qatar, asitbecame the cash flow 666m 832m operating activities 719m 888m ninth country to choose Typhoon.
1 Order intake 14,845m 6,128m KPI 1 The proven combination of Typhoon Order backlog 27.4bn 19.5bn andHawk will provide theQatari Armed Forces with the most advanced and Sales were down 7% at 6.7bn.
As The 666m of cash inflow in the year flexible multi-role combat aircraft on the expected production activity on Typhoon reflects full consumption of the 300m market today, along with best-in-class forthe European, Saudi and Oman contracts earlyreceipts seen in 2017 against the support and training.
The F-35 programme SaudiArabia support programme, utilisation continues to ramp-up to plan and Middle of advances on the residual Typhoon export With a contract value of around 5bn, East support volumes continue to grow.
contracts, and a net advance now held on deliveries of the first Hawk aircraft are the Qatar programme.
expected to commence in 2022 and The return on sales of 12.8% was at the top thefirst Typhoon aircraft in 2023. end of our guidance.
There has been some Order backlog stands at 27.4bn, BAE Systems is the prime contractor profit trading on completing the Typhoon significantly higher following the awards forboth the provision of the aircraft Oman contract with minimal sales, and that forthe 5.1bn Qatar Typhoon and Hawk andthe agreed arrangements for the has generated a 70bps benefit within the programme, the 1.1bn initial contract in-service support and initial training.
under the Australian Hunter Class frigate programme, and in respect of the 3.2bn continuation of Typhoon support through 2022 in Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 57 Segmental review continued Our strategy in action Support for the UKTyphoon Operational performance In the UK we continue to support the fleet Ministryof Defence Typhoon fleet under European and International Markets aten-year partnership arrangement which The contract entered into between provides flying hours and we also support BAE Systems and the Government of the theEuropean Partner Nations support Stateof Qatar, valued at approximately 5bn, arrangements at above contractual levels.
for the supply of 24 Typhoon and nine Hawk In August, we completed the first aircraft became effective during September.
Following the 119m contract secured twoyearsof an innovative ten-year The agreement also provides for the supply in2017for collaboration on the first partnership agreement with the ofground supportand training to the Qatar designanddevelopment phase of an UKMinistry of Defence to transform Armed Forces.
The business has begun indigenous fifth-generation fighter jet mobilising resources and supply chain.
support of the UK Typhoon fleet.
fortheTurkish AirForce, activity has focusedon mobilising resources.
The final four out of a total of 12 Typhoon The Typhoon Total Availability eNterprise aircraft were delivered to the Royal Air Force of TyTAN arrangement introduced new Discussions with the Government of India Oman during the year.
The five-year availability ways of working to further reduce andHindustan Aeronautics Limited for the service contract for the aircraft continues.
thecosts of operating the fleet at supply of Hawk aircraft kit sets to be used RAFConingsby and RAF Lossiemouth.
tobuild additional aircraft under licence in Production is ongoing under the Kuwait Thearrangements will aim to enable India for the Indian Air Force and Navy, have Typhoon contract, secured by Italian anestimated 500m of savings to be ceased pending a clearer understanding Eurofighter partner Leonardo, with all reinvested to develop new capability oftheir requirements.
BAE Systems enhancements forthe aircraft.
Support to the Royal Air Forces UK fleet TyTAN involves working with partners ofHawk fast jet trainer aircraft continues In the year, the Royal Air Force accepted acrossour supply chain to drive through the long-term availability contract, sevenTyphoon aircraft from the UK final improvements andto deliver the lowest along with support to users of Hawk trainer assembly facility.
The German, Italian and possible costs to the Ministry of Defence.
Spanish Air Forces accepted a total of 15 The arrangement, which includes a aircraft, which brings deliveries of Tranche 3 The UK Combat Air Strategy, announced jointavionics solution with Eurofighter aircraft to 73 of the 88 contracted.
inthe year, is a significant milestone for the partner company Leonardo, aims to Airsector and sends a strong signal of intent The Royal Air Force declared Typhoon to reduce thecost ofthe support service about the UKs commitment to retaining a havemet Centurion standard, enabling the byaroundone-third while maintaining leading position in Combat Air.
The Tempest transition of capabilities from Tornado to andimproving levels ofsupport to programme is a key enabler to deliver this Typhoon.
Integration of the Captor E-Scan theUK Typhoon fleet.
strategy and the business is currently radar continues to progress as we conduct mobilising resources against a contract first flight trials to develop and improve Group strategic More online 18 awarded in July, whilst also engaging with theradars capability.
com industry partners and the Ministry of Defence to define and mature the technologies and capabilities that are required.
BAE Systems 58 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements US Programmes shareholding in Aircraft Accessories and The Hawk Mk127 Lead-In Fighter project Final price agreement was secured on F-35 Components Company to Saudi Arabian teamcontinues to maintain the high level Lot11.
Negotiations on Lots 12 to 14 are Military Industries SAMI in 2019.
The Capability expected to conclude in the first half of 2019, reorganisations are in support of our strategy Assurance Programme to upgrade the Hawk which will enable an expected ramp-up to to develop indigenous supply in Saudi Arabia fleet to meet the F-35 training requirements full-rate production by 2020.
In the year, through our In-Kingdom Industrial remains on schedule.
110rear fuselage assemblies were delivered Participation programme, promoting training, Mobilisation activity for sustainment of for the Low-Rate Initial Production contracts development and employment opportunities theregional F-35 fleet continues to progress across Lots 10, 11 and 12. in line with the Kingdoms National atour Williamtown facility, with the first two Transformation Plan and Vision 2030.
At RAF Marham in Norfolk, following aircraft to be supported arriving in Australia acceptance of the Lightning Operating Through the restructuring of the Groups inDecember.
Centre, the UKs first four F-35 aircraft portfolio of interests in a number of Kingdom We were notified in March 2018 that we arrivedin June, and a further five aircraft of Saudi Arabia industrial companies along hadbeen unsuccessful in our bid for the arrived during September, enabling the with sustaining current industrialised capability Land400 Phase 2 Combat Reconnaissance UKgovernment to declare Initial Operational and building on our strong history in Saudi Vehicle programme.
The integration Arabia, we are working in partnership to ofF-35 onto the Queen Elizabeth Aircraft continue to deliver these priorities with the MBDA Carrierhas commenced, with the initial phase SAMI organisation to explore how we can During the year MBDA secured new contracts of First ofClass Flight trials now complete.
collaborate to deliver further In-Kingdom for additional Taurus stand-off missiles in Industrial Participation.
South Korea and for Marte Extended Range During the second half of the year, contract anti-ship missiles to Qatar.
The contract for the award for the Performance Based Logistics It should be recognised that the Group is supply of missiles to Qatar for the 24 Typhoon arrangements for BAE Systems equipment reliant on the continued approval of export aircraft became effective in September.
responsibilities was achieved, underpinning licences by a number of governments in order agrowing contribution by BAE Systems to to continue supplies to the Kingdom of Saudi MBDA also secured the development theF-35 global fleet support.
Significant changes in policies of such andmanufacture of next-generation MICA governments may affect our own provision air-to-air missiles in France, and further Saudi Arabia ofcapability to the country and we are liaising five-year support to the Aster system in The Memorandum of Intent signed between closely with the UK government in working France, Italy and the UK.
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK toreduce the impact of any such occurrence.
government in March 2018 continues to An amended Request for Proposal was progress towards reaching an Agreement Australia received for the proposed future German forafurther 48 Typhoon aircraft, support In March, the Commonwealth of Australia ground-based air defence system, TLVS.
agreed upgrade and sustainment contracts MBDA is partnered with Lockheed Martin Thiswill enableBAE Systems to continue with worth A$1.0bn 0.6bn for the Jindalee onthis opportunity.
the Industrialisation of Defence capabilities in Operational Radar Network, to be delivered MBDA made good progress on development theKingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Final assembly over an initial ten-year term.
Mobilisation of programmes with key test firings successfully of all 48 Typhoon aircraft will be In-Kingdom.
the acquisition and support teams has been achieved in the year for both Sea Venom completed and support of all radar sites The Typhoon support contracts continue to anti-ship and Land Ceptor air defence missiles.
Agreement has been reached The Sea Ceptor naval air defence missile with the Saudi Arabian government for In June, the Commonwealth of Australia system entered into service with the Royal BAE Systems to continue to provide Typhoon selected the Group as the preferred tenderer Navy Type 23 frigates in May.
Meteor entered support services to the Royal Saudi Air Force for the design and build of up to nine ships into service with the Royal Air Force on against which we have booked order intake forthe Hunter Class programme for the Typhoon.
The French Army introduced in of3.2bn in December 2018 for support RoyalAustralian Navy.
We subsequently operations the new fifth-generation land services up to and including 2022. agreed the contract and scope for the initial combat missile MMP.
four-year design and productionisation The Royal Saudi Air Force will receive their phasewith a value of A$1.9bn 1.1bn.
firstIn-Kingdom final-assembled Hawk aircraft Theproduction scope is to be negotiated Looking forward in early 2019.
The company has delivered 14 indue course for the first batch of ships.
of 22 major units on schedule, to meet this Forward-looking information for the final assembly programme and first flight of We have continued to provide in-service Airreporting segmentisprovided later aHawk assembled in Saudi Arabia occurred support to the Royal Australian Navys two inthis report.
Landing Helicopter Docks under the support contract which was extended to run until June Segmental The Royal Saudi Naval Forces accepted the 64 2019.
Trials have identified a number of areas looking forward third and final ship in the Minehunter mid-life where rectifications are in process, with final update programme in April, with a training acceptance of the vessels under the acquisition services contract signed in the year.
However, in Work continues to reorganise our portfolio of December, theCommonwealth announced interests in a number of industrial companies that we had not been selected forthe next in Saudi Arabia.
During the year Riyadh Wings stage of Landing Helicopter Docksupport.
Aviation Academy LLC increased its ownership Progress continues on the sustainment and to 11.85% in the Groups Overhaul and upgrade of the Anzac fleet under the Warship Maintenance Company OMC subsidiary, Asset Management Alliance.
andis contracted to acquire a further interest up to 49%.
OMC has disposed of its 85.7% BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 59
