STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL A PROVEN MODEL FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE WHAT DIFFERENTIATES US OUR STAKEHOLDERS Consumers are at the heart We have a number of strengths which, We engage with our stakeholders through: of what we do: our deep combined with a confidence in market understanding of the food Partnering with our customers to develop fundamentals and demand for fresh a diverse, innovative and on-trend choices they make enables prepared food, help differentiate us in product range to drive consumer demand theindustry: us to create and make Collaborating with our suppliers to innovative products for our Clear leadership in the attractive UK FPF promote customer service and food market and across product categories safety excellence so that we all benefit customers that set us apart Proven operating model of managing from growth and innovation from our competitors.
complexity and ability to manufacture Offering open communication with our short shelf-life products at scale investors, explaining our strategy and Focusing on customer Strong and long-standing customer performance at regular intervals service and continuously relationships in all our markets Providing an engaging learning creating and making food Ability to provide both customer and environment and rewards to attract and consumer specific insights to retain our colleagues that is both commercially driveinnovation Investing in our communities, working successful and meets Track record of, and investment in, collaboratively to promote the consumer demand is what foodsafety sustainable growth of the food industry Strong financial profile and sustainable drives our business and track record for organic growth what creates value for READ MORE ABOUT OUR STAKEHOLDER our stakeholders.
DEDICATED TEAMS AND PLANS HOW WE We use insights gained through our analysis We recognise that our relationships with of consumer research and data, as well as customers and the service we provide are our knowledge of food trends sourced from key to our success.
CREATE around the world, to gain a good As a specialist in private label food, we are understanding of what consumers want.
committed to protecting and developing VALUE Our teams of chefs and product our customers brands as though they are development experts continuously create our own.
and test recipes and work collaboratively We have dedicated teams, each with with our commercial and marketing differentiated plans, that work with our teams to ensure products taste great, strategic customers and ensure we meet are commercially viable and reinforce their exacting standards.
FOOD SAFETY EXCELLENCE Our procurement teams work with selected Our UK factories are operational 24 7, 364 We manufacture food that is not only growers and suppliers to source raw days a year, providing approximately 2,000 great-tasting for consumers, but also materials in the right quantities at the right different short shelf-life products to meets the highest standards of safety.
They buy from around 50 countries customers every day.
Sites are audited regularly, often on an with no single supplier accounting for more We operate a just-in-time model, using unannounced basis, by internal food safety than 5% of UK orders.
fresh raw materials to produce only what experts, customers and independent bodies Our planning experts ensure we can meet is required to meet our daily orders and we for compliance with food safety standards.
the daily orders of our customers by have a proven ability to deliver high-quality In the UK, we employ more than 500 food analysing product demand and planning products to customers.
safety professionals and conduct over 1,500 production accordingly.
As well as raw Essential to the success of our model is our in-house microbiology and chemistry tests material planning, this also involves logistics expertise in managing our inbound every day in our own laboratories.
efficient staff planning, with a mix of both and outbound supply chain.
Raw materials permanent employees and agency workers are supplied to our factories and finished to meet seasonal demand.
products are delivered on time through our distribution centres into customers depots.
S L i r P N r R L I t. O 1 t i A C i U g R g I n N n i G i C p A t a N t e D e n e P G L - k E A d C N N o N E I L N L a G E t C X t i E Y t T u E F d A S e D O O F. 5 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS We believe it is important to listen and engage with our stakeholders as we will only be able to build a sustainable business with their input, cooperation and trust.
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE WHAT WE DID IN 2018 Dedicated customer champions We evolved our UK operational structure to incorporate CUSTOMERS at senior business director level a more customer focused leadership team.
Supplier business reviews We undertook an extensive supplier business review with one Insights team ofour major customers to secure further business.
New Product Development team After many years of planning, we opened a new factory in Texas Technical team dedicated to an important new customer.
Customer site audits Alongside many of our customers, we committed to adopt the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 to halve food waste across the supply chain by 50% by2030.
Procurement Leadership team We held our first Bakkavor UK Supplier Conference SUPPLIERS Dedicated Group buyers to set out our future approach to responsible sourcing.
Bakkavor Supplier Conference Over 420 supplier representatives attended the event, Technical audits with presentations from our Chief Executive Officer, UK Chief Regular supplier visits Operating Officer and the Responsible Sourcing Steering Group.
New product development In China, we continued to work with growers to improve supply Cost quality improvement initiatives chain integrity and overall product quality.
During the year, Inbound logistics we invested in state-of-the-art hydroponics technology to Technological innovation further improve quality of supply and seasonal availability Industry conferences of ingredients.
Social events Annual General Meeting We held five Investor roadshow events across London, INVESTORS Annual Report & Accounts Edinburgh, Boston and New York and attended a number Financial results releases of investor conferences throughout the year.
presentation and audio cast We hosted seven investor site visits at UK sites, plus an investor Investor roadshows and analyst  launch event.
Investor conferences We held over 100 one-to-one investor and analyst calls.
Factory site visits Hosted events One-to-one calls Group awards We rolled out our Employee Engagement Survey to our COLLEAGUES Site awards such as Long Service International colleagues.
and Living our Values We continued to support and advise our employees during Community activities the ongoing uncertainty surrounding Brexit.
Employee Engagement Survey We further developed our apprenticeship and graduate Site Employee Forum SEF recruitment programmes both in the UK and internationally.
Representatives We continued to improve our staff facilities across our sites, CEO messages to employees particularly in China where we made a number of Intranet well-received improvements.
Group newsletter Subsidised staff shops Internal conferences Annual appraisals School partnerships In July, we hosted our annual Fun Weekend in Spalding, COMMUNITIES Charity fundraising Lincolnshire, for employees and the local community, Employee volunteering which raised over 25,000 for charity.
Local awards sponsorship We announced two new three-year charity partnerships with Hosting community events FareShare and Action Against Hunger.
Social media 10 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report FRESH FACES CREATING FRESH PREPARED FOOD Finlay Galbraith, Apprentice OUR WOOD-FIRED FIG, Development Chef, Bakkavor UK PROSCIUTTO, DI SPECK AND Im currently on my first year of the GORGONZOLA PIZZA SHOWS Apprenticeship Programme, learning to HOWWE ARE CREATING NEW become one of Bakkavors development RECIPES FOR CONSUMERS chefs.
Ive always loved food and trying out WHOINCREASINGLY WANT different dishes, so its great to be able to work with like-minded people who are TOBEINSPIRED BY EXCITING passionate about culinary excellence and NEW FLAVOURS AND FRESH creating great-tasting new recipes using QUALITYINGREDIENTS.
Its even more rewarding to see our products on supermarket shelves.
