STRATEGIC REPORT ABOUT BAKKAVOR ONE OF THE LARGEST INTERNATIONAL FOOD MANUFACTURERS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES UK INTERNATIONAL We employ approximately 17,000 people Our International business comprises the We are the leading provider of FPF in the UK, with a growing international presence in the UK and are the number one producer FPF market in the US and the foodservice by market share in each of the four UK FPF market in China.
Our 19,000 employees operate from 43 locations to develop and categories: meals, salads, desserts and We employ over 600 people in the US and pizza & bread.
produce innovative FPF for a wide variety over 2,000 in China, having operated in both of occasions and budgets.
These locations Our customers include all the well-known countries for more than 10 years.
include: 25 factory sites, three distribution UK grocery retailers, who sell our products centres and a head office in the UK: five We believe we are well placed to influence under their own respective brands.
In 2018, factories in the US: and nine factories and develop these markets by leveraging we developed over 500 new products in the inChina.
Both markets have UK in partnership with them.
demonstrated a growing demand for fresh, In the UK and the US, we work with We operate a complex operating model, high-quality, healthy and convenient leading grocery retailers to support them and our sites are operational 24 hours a food options.
in differentiating their product offering day, 364 days a year.
Given the short shelf by focusing on their own-label brands.
In 2018, our International business life of products, our sites receive orders In China, we supply foodservice operators.
expanded its presence with the addition on-the-day, for-the-day.
In order to of five new factories three in China and In partnership with our customers, we have fulfil orders on time and in full, labour two in the US.
led the way in developing the FPF market and materials are arranged in advance, in the UK one of the largest and most which requires a skilled planning process.
Strategic positioning dynamic of its kind in the world.
Strong understanding of markets Strategic positioning and long-established presence We have used this expertise to grow and Operating in attractive markets develop our presence in the US and China, Ability to capitalise on UK expertise Leading position across all four with both markets showing strong growth and insight for competitive advantage product categories inthe high-quality, fresh, convenience Significant opportunities for growth Strong insight, innovation and new food sector.
Increased purchasing power for product development focus rawmaterials Our proven business model combined Long-standing partnerships with our extensive insight into consumer with customers trends and an ability to turn this insight into creative commercial products gives the Group a clear competitive advantage in the FPFmarket.
We report our business performance under two segments: UK andInternational.
1 GROUP REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA 11% 4% 89% 96% UK: 1,653.6m UK: 147.7m International: 201.6m International: 5.8m 1.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs, including like-for-like, adjusted and underlying are used asa guide to performance.
The definitions and calculations for APMs are set out in Note 40 of the Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements.
4 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report LEADING THE WAY OUR VISION Our vision is to lead the way in bringing great-tasting fresh prepared food to people around the world.
OUR PURPOSE Our purpose is to develop and produce innovative, commercially successful food that offers choice, quality, convenience and freshness.
Our vision and purpose are underpinned by a strong set of values that describe what we stand for and how we behave with our customers, suppliers and investors, in the communities in which we operate, and with each other.
OUR VALUES CUSTOMER CARE TEAMWORK GETTING IT RIGHT, KEEPING IT RIGHT We are committed to supplying outstanding We believe everyone has a valuable part We work to deliver the right results every service, quality and value, never forgetting to play in the success of our business.
time in the most effective way, providing that our relationship with our customers We aim to communicate effectively and value for our customers and is key to our success.
are committed to the highest standards stakeholders alike.
CAN-DO ATTITUDE INNOVATION We encourage personal initiative and We thrive on new challenges, looking for empower our people to make things innovative ways to grow and improve our happen.
Our motivation comes from a business further.
determination to succeed in all that we do.
A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We operate a responsible and sustainable business model which is integral to everything wedo.
A CULTURE CUSTOMER CARE AN EMPLOYER OF SAFETY AND ENGAGEMENT OF CHOICE Safety is core to our vision and values and We are proud of the relationships we have We position Bakkavor as an employer of isintegral to the way we work.
This includes with our customers, working in partnership choice, providing a secure, enjoyable and food safety and integrity, making sure our to develop new products together.
We meet motivational working environment for all products meet all legal and customer regularly to discuss global food and our people.
We measure our success standards as well as ensuring the health consumer trends, share innovative ideas through our employee engagement survey and safety of all our people.
We have and taste-test potential new recipes.
and the ability to retain our people, as well a strong Board-led process of safety We always challenge ourselves to deliver as through our robust approach to management in place.
customer excellence and we respect our workplace safety.
customers brand values as though they were our own.
