STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY DELIVERING LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE GROWTH The Groups core strategy of delivering long-term sustainable growth is focused on developing its businesses in the UK and internationally, while continuing to improve operational efficiency.
This strategy is underpinned by a constant focus on customer needs and service, selective partnerships and strong financial disciplines.
LEVERAGING NUMBER STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Whilst the UK operating environment has We continue to focus on working ONE POSITION IN THE UK been challenging due to ongoing cost alongside our customers to navigate Bakkavors strategy in the UK is to inflation and an intensely competitive ongoing market uncertainty and low leverage its number one position market, we have maintained our number levels of consumer confidence.
in the growing FPF market.
one position in the UK FPF market.
We continue to review the potential Our strategy centres on the following We strengthened our long-standing impacts on the business of Brexit and will key areas: customer relationships and the breadth update operational plans accordingly to and depth of our category offering.
Strengthening partnership We put in place a number of pricing We continue to review new ways to gather arrangements with mechanisms with our key customers consumer insight given the rapid growth existing customers to better manage inflationary pressures.
of customer data and emergence of Exploiting insight, innovation new technologies.
We continued to invest in consumer and breadth of capability insight and product innovation and have We remain focused on maximising the Pursuing strategic investments launched a number of new ranges in returns from our investments and, in to accelerate growth response to trends such as vegan and particular, driving our growth in the We seek to deliver these free from.
strategic priorities and enhance We strengthened our desserts We continue to review site capacity and our number one position through capabilities with the acquisition capabilities in order to optimise our dedicated customer teams of Haydens in Devizes, as well as the efficiencies and maximise profitability and our commitment to ongoing expansion of our desserts site in across our estate.
Both provide increased capacity, We continue to embed our new UK market-leading innovation and state-ofleadership structure.
14 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 0 2.
ACCELERATING GROWTH STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Strong underlying volume growth with In the US: IN HIGH-POTENTIAL all key customers: We continue to build our presence in INTERNATIONAL MARKETS In the US: the super categories, through both Bakkavor has developed a strong East and West Coast supply.
We developed a partnership with presence in the attractive markets a significant new customer in Texas We are investing in our hummus of the US and China, where the and opened a dedicated site for this processing capability and diversifying Group has operated for over 10 years.
customer in October 2018. our offering to include hummus meals.
Our international strategy will We continued to focus on developing We are committed to investing behind leverage our expertise in the UK our position in super categories our meals category core capabilities to further support the strong dips, soups, sauces and ready meals.
to develop our strategic partnerships.
This included a major project on We continue to focus on optimising site To accelerate growth internationally, improving hummus capability.
performance, including access to we are focused on: In China: skilled and relevant labour.
Our large scale investment in a In China: Developing strong state-of-the-art factory in Shanghai We remain focused on leveraging customer partnerships came online in the second half of 2018 recent large-scale investment in new Establishing leading positions and provides increased capability.
facilities to deliver growth with existing in key categories with a view to We also invested in a new facility in customers in our current categories.
Both investments provide We continue to expand our core increased capacity to support category offering and review new customer growth plans.
We continued to develop our supply We continue to test other channels in chain capabilities to bring more of our the market as we leverage capacity.
raw materials in-house, including In both markets, a key focus is leveraging investment in hydroponics technology.
our UK expertise to ensure successful In both markets, we developed our launches of the speciality bread category.
category presence in the premium artisan breads market, with the opening of new bakeries in Taicang, outside Shanghai, and Charlotte, North Carolina.
IMPROVING STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Our operational finance team remains We continue to actively seek opportunities OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY focused on identifying instances of for further efficiency improvements in Bakkavor continues to invest in operational excellence that can be order to optimise profitability.
operational efficiencies across replicated across the Group.
The team In the context of the current labour the Group to support its strategy.
adopts a three-pillar approach, focused environment, we remain focused on These investments are underpinned on intervention, improvement and opportunities to reduce our reliance by Bakkavors operational finance investment.
We bolstered the team on labour and improve process team, created by bringing some during the year to provide us with greater standardisation across the Group.
of the Groups manufacturing and strength and expertise in this area.
The operational finance team continues finance leaders together to work We delivered a number of efficiency to build an extensive pipeline of projects across the Group as a whole.
improvements in the year through and capital investment opportunities.
automation, energy savings and reduced waste.
In the UK, we reviewed the organisational structure of the business to leverage our asset base more effectively and strengthen our customer partnerships.
We leveraged UK expertise to support our international operations, including dedicated resource embedded within new site investments.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON HOW WE ALIGN OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES TO OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS, SEE PAGE 27. www.
com 15 FRESH INVESTMENTS TO SUPPORT FRESH PARTNERSHIPS Gary McEvoy, General Manager, IN 2014, WE WORKED CLOSELY Bakkavor US WITH A CUSTOMER TO LAUNCH I run our new site in Texas a dedicated THE FIRST FRESH BURRITO factory for a major retailer, which we opened PRODUCT IN THE US AND WE in October 2018.
Itsbeen great to see the CONTINUE TO EXPAND AND development project unfold and exciting SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP THIS to see the significant change taking place PRODUCT RANGE TODAY.
across their stores as they prepare to offer more and more fresh prepared food to consumers.
This is the way stores are changing in the US and its great to be part of that shift.
Its also been hugely helpful to take advice from our UK teams!
