GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT MANAGEMENT REPORT The Directors present their We have chosen, in accordance with the For the purposes of DTR Rules 4.1.
5R 2 Act, to include certain information in our report, together with the Group and 4.1.
8, this Directors Report and the Strategic Report or Financial Statements Financial Statements, for the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 46 comprise that would otherwise be required to be year ended 29 December 2018. the Management Report.
disclosed in the Directors Report.
Theseare as follows: DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT CONTENT Subject matter Page This Directors Corporate Governance The Strategic Report, the Corporate Important events since the 146 report fulfils the requirements of the Governance Report and the Directors financial year end directors report for the purposes of Remuneration Report are all incorporated Likely future developments 14 theCompanies Act 2006 the Act.
by reference into this Directors Report, in the business TheStrategic Report can be found on andshould be read as part of this report.
Research and development 118 pages4 to 46, and encompasses our Use of financial instruments 132 corporate social responsibility report.
REGISTERED OFFICE Employee involvement 41 Bakkavor Group plc is incorporated as a In line with the Regulations which implement Greenhouse gas emissions 39 public limited company and is registered the European Union Accounting Directive in England with the registered number SI 2015 980, a complete list of the Groups 10986940.
Bakkavor Group plcs registered subsidiaries has been included on pages office is Fitzroy Place, 5th Floor, 8 Mortimer 153 to 154 to comply with s409 of the Act.
Our registrars are Equiniti Limited, located at Aspect House, LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R DISCLOSURES Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct BN996DA.
Authoritys Listing Rules, can be found within the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Required Disclosure Page reference STATEMENT 1 Interest capitalised and tax relief Note 9 to the Financial Statements Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable Disclosure Guidance and Transparency financialinformation Rules DTR Rule 7, a requirement exists for a corporate governance statement to 3 Details of long-term Note 35 to the Financial Statements beincluded in this Directors Report.
The incentiveschemes and Directors Remuneration Report corporate governance statement explaining on pages 70 to 89 how the Group complies with the Governance 4 Waiver of emoluments by aDirector Directors Remuneration Report Code is set out on page 48.
A description onpages 70 to 89 ofthe composition and operation of the 5 Waiver of future emoluments by Not applicable Boardand its Committees is set out aDirector onpages53 to 55.
6 Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable forcash STRATEGIC REPORT 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 forcash by major subsidiary requires the Directors to present a Strategic undertakings Report in the Annual Report and Financial 8 Parent participation in a placing Not applicable Statements.
This information can be found byalisted subsidiary on pages 4 to 46.
9 Contracts of significance Not applicable 10 Provision of services by a Not applicable  11 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of future Not applicable dividends 13 Agreements with controlling Not applicable shareholders 90 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report RESULTS DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS The results for the year ended 29 December The interests of the Directors at 29 December 2018 and as at the date of the publication of 2018 are set out in the Financial Statements this report were: on page 102.
29 December 2018 Date of publication of Annual Report Name Number of shares % of voting rights Number of shares % of voting rights DIVIDEND Simon Burke 50,000 0.009% 50,000 0.009% The Group has confirmed its intention that Agust Gudmundsson 145,333,130 25.1% 145,333,130 25.1% adividend equivalent to approximately 40% Lydur Gudmundsson 145,333,130 25.1% 145,333,130 25.1% of Adjusted Profit after Tax for the financial year 2018 will be paid.
An interim payment BOARD OF DIRECTORS of 2 pence per share was paid in September The powers of the Directors are set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Group 2018 and a final dividend of 4 pence per share has been proposed for approval at Board which is available for review on the Companys website.
theAGM on 23 May 2019 and will be payable Current Directors in year except as noted on 29 May 2019 to shareholders on the Name Appointed register at 3 May 2019.
Robert Berlin 28 September 2017 and resigned ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION on 11 July 2018 Simon Burke 20 October 2017 The Articles of Association the Articles are available from the Companys website, Sue Clark 20 October 2017 or by writing to the General Counsel & Patrick Cook 12 July 2018 Company Secretary at the Companys Peter Gates 20 October 2017 registered office.
The Articles can also Agust Gudmundsson 28 September 2017 beobtained from the UK Registrar of Lydur Gudmundsson 20 October 2017 Companies.
The Articles may be amended Denis Hennequin 20 October 2017 by special resolution of the shareholders.
Todd Krasnow 20 October 2017 DIRECTORS INSURANCE Jane Lodge 3 April 2018 ANDINDEMNITIES Bakkavor has made qualifying third-party Subject to applicable law, the Articles and There are no specific restrictions on the provisions as defined in the Companies Act any directions given by special resolution, sizeof a holding nor on the transfer of 2006 for the benefit of its Directors.
These the business of the Company will be shares, which are both governed by the provisions remain in force at the date of managed by the Board which may general provisions of the Articles and thisAnnual Report.
In accordance with the exerciseall power of the Company.
Articles, and to the extent permitted by law, Under the Companys Articles, the Board Bakkavor may indemnify its Directors out SHARE CAPITAL AND has general and unconditional authority for ofits own funds to cover liabilities arising CAPITALSTRUCTURE each prescribed period to exercise all the asa result of their office.
Bakkavor holds The Companys issued share capital as at powers of the Company to allot shares in Directors and Officers Liability Insurance the date of publication of the Annual Report the Company or to grant rights to subscribe cover for any claim brought against Directors is 579,425,585 Ordinary shares of 2 pence for or to convert any security into shares or officers for wrongful acts in connection each.
Details of the Companys issued inthe Company in accordance with s551 with their positions, but the cover does not share capital are also shown in Note 29 of the Companies Act 2006.
A renewal of extend to claims arising from dishonesty tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
this authority will be proposed at the AGM orfraud.
The Company will also The Company has one class of Ordinary seek authority to purchase its own shares APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT shares which carries no right to fixed income.
within certain limits and as permitted by OF DIRECTORS Each share is non-redeemable and carries theArticles, at the AGM on 23 May 2019. equal voting rights and ranks for dividends The rules governing the appointment and and capital distributions, whether on a replacement of Directors are set out in the winding up or otherwise.
Articles and governed by the Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related Details of employee share schemes are legislation.
At the AGM, all Directors will set out in Note 35 to the Consolidated offer themselves for election or re-election Financial Statements.
Biographical details of all Directors are set out on pages 50 to51.
com 91 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Following the Groups listing on the SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND AGM London Stock Exchange, Agust and Lydur CHANGE OF CONTROL The AGM will be held on 23 May 2019 Gudmundsson each indirectly held 25.1% and is an opportunity for shareholders to There are a number of agreements of the issued share capital in Bakkavor vote on aspects of the business in person.
thattake effect, alter or terminate upon Group plc, and BP-PE5 the corporate The Board values the AGM as an opportunity achange of control of the Company such holding structure of the Baupost Group to meet with shareholders and to take their ascommercial contracts, property lease held 24.8% of the issued share capital questions.
Full details of the resolutions to arrangements and employee share plans.
be proposed at the AGM, shareholders rights None of these are considered to be with respect to attendance, participation in significant, except as explained below, LOCK-UP ARRANGEMENTS the meeting and the process for submission interms of their likely impact on the The lock-up arrangements for the Company of proxy votes in advance of the meeting business of the Group as a whole.
and with certain shareholders which were willbe set out in the Notice of AGM.
The agreement that governs the Companys put in place at the time of the Companys Additional information for shareholders is Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities listing on the London Stock Exchange contained on our website.
Facilities Agreement provides that, on a havenow expired.
change of control, any lender may on notice EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES cancel its commitments under the Facilities RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Agreement.
In the event of a takeover, the Applications for employment by prospective The Board supports the aims of the exercise by the lenders under the Facilities employees with disabilities are always fully Governance Code and the UK Stewardship Agreement of the right to cancel could considered.
On occasions where existing Code to promote engagement and interaction havea significant impact on the business employees develop a disability, every effort between listed companies and their major ofthe Group, as the outstanding amounts is made to ensure that their employment shareholders.
thereunder would become immediately with the Group continues, and any dueand payable.
The Board welcomes the opportunity reasonable adjustments are made and forinvestors and shareholders to engage appropriate training is provided.
It is the The Directors are not aware of any directly with the Chairman and Senior policy of the Group that the training, career agreements between the Company and Independent Director in addition to the Chief development and promotion of employees itsDirectors or employees that provide Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
with disabilities should, as far as possible, forcompensation for loss of office or An appropriate range of investor relations be the same as that of our other employees.
employment that occurs because of events following the publication of the For further information, see page 40. atakeover bid.
full-year and half-year results have been scheduled in2019.
CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS Shortly prior to the Groups listing on the London Stock Exchange in November 2017, Bakk AL Holdings Limited an entity in which Agust Gudmundsson and Lydur Gudmundsson each held a 50% interest owned 59.5% and BP-PE5 L. L. C. BPPE5, an entity managed indirectly by the Baupost Group, owned 40.5% of the issued share capital of Bakkavor Holdings Limited formerly Bakkavor Group Limited.
In anticipation of and following the Groups listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group completed a reorganisation of its corporate structure.
92 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION POLITICAL DONATIONS DIRECTORS STATEMENT ASTOTHE DISCLOSURE OF The Group places considerable value No political donations were made during ontheinvolvement of its employees, the financial year.
INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR andhas continued to keep them informed So far as each person who was a Director GOING CONCERN on matters affecting them as employees atthe date of approving this report is aware, and on the various factors affecting the Bakkavors business activities, together there is no relevant audit information, performance of the Group.
It does this with factors likely to affect its future beinginformation needed by the Auditor in through a formal process of employee development, performance and position, connection with preparing their report, of forums where representatives meet are set out in the Strategic Report on which the Auditor is unaware.
Each Director annually with the Chief Executive Officer pages4 to 46.
The financial position has taken all the steps that he or she is toreview business performance.
The oftheCompany, its cash flows, liquidity obliged to take as a Director in order to Groupalso works closely with Union position and borrowing facilities, as well make himself or herself aware of any representatives on recognised sites.
asthe Companys objectives, policies relevant audit information, and to establish Employee feedback is sought on a regular andprocesses for managing capital, are that the Companys Auditor is aware of basis via the Employee Engagement described on pages 102 to 106 and in Note thatinformation.
This confirmation is Survey and this is used to develop site 28.
Financial risk management objectives givenpursuant to s418 of the Companies specific action plans.
Formal briefing and exposures to credit risk and liquidity Act 2006 and should be interpreted in processes occur at each location and risk are described in Note 28.
The Directors accordance with and subjectto aresupported by the Company magazine, consider that the Companys business theseprovisions.
which includes highlights of the Groups activities and financial resources ensure latest published financial results.
For that it is well placed to manage its SUBSEQUENT EVENTS further information, see page 42. businessrisks successfully.
Please refer to Note 38 of the Group Financial Statements.
The Directors are satisfied that: CHARITABLE DONATIONS Bakkavor supports its chosen charities: The Companys activities are sustainable The Princes Trust and The Princes for the foreseeable future, and that the Countryside Fund.
In addition, our business is a going concern employees raise money at each factory It is appropriate to continue to adopt a site for local causesof theirchoice.
going concern basis in the preparation SIMON WITHAM In December 2018, the Group announced General Counsel & Company Secretary ofthe Financial Statements two new charity partnerships with Action Against Hunger and FareShare.
5 April 2019 VIABILITY STATEMENT Bakkavor aims to promote economic and In line with Provision C. 2.2 of the social wellbeing around all of our locations Governance Code, the Directors have and is active in supporting local community carried out a rigorous review of the projects and initiatives, including supporting prospects of the current business, and a number of local schools and investing itsability to meet its liabilities as they inyoung talent.
For further information, falldue over the medium term.
For seepage 46. furtherinformation, see page 30. www.
