STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET REVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKET OUR KEY MARKET DRIVERS Our aim is to understand consumer diversity and deliver commercially successful products across three distinct markets.
TASTE Across the UK, US and China, Shoppers are our consumers consistently cooking less, look for three key features but looking to of fresh prepared food: be inspired taste, fresh and healthy and convenience.
Our Bakkavor Insights TASTE teams are focused on The combination of romaine lettuce, parmesan cheese and anchovies brought ensuring products reflect together as the Caesar salad is famous FRESH & these features and also across the globe.
In the UK, our team HEALTHY match the changing created the iconic chicken caesar wrap from the original recipe, and it has now People are more consumer lifestyles and been a successful product for our major conscious of health trends particular to each retail customers for many years.
as a lunch option from the Food to Go counters in our major retail customers, it is primarily eaten on-the-go and straight from the pack.
In China, we modified the chicken caesar wrap to suit the local market.
Working with our customers we developed the wrap into a popular, smaller breakfast option, often CONVENIENCE served heated.
In response to its success, we have created further products in the Changing consumer year by mixing Asian flavours with western shopping and cuisines, including the mala chicken wrap eating behaviour and the five-spice beef wrap.
The bread category is another example of where we are rolling out our UK expertise internationally.
We successfully introduced chilled garlic bread to the UK palate over a decade ago: a product now purchased by over 60% of the households in the UK.
As we know that chilled breads are not a well-known concept in the US, we have used our expertise in this category instead to successfully fill the gap for premium topped ambient breads.
Similarly in China, we know that the consumer enjoys a much softer, lighter bread eat, and our new facility is focused on achieving distinctive products that meet this preference.
12 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report HOW WE ARE RESPONDING WE REDEFINE TASTE Its about exploring and discovering flavours you will love WE MAKE FRESH RELEVANT Its about health, trust, FRESH & HEALTHY CONVENIENCE honesty and integrity Over half of consumers cite health Consumers want us to help make their considerations as a factor in their lives easier and help them get time back.
Whilst in the UK Fresh, quality food, combined with this simply meant low-calorie and low-fat convenience, is a recipe for success.
ranges a decade ago, this view has In the UK, over two-thirds of our consumers developed further.
For example, vegan food WE GIVE PEOPLE MORE TIME tell us they are always busy.
For some, has emerged in the last year to become shopping online helps them plan their time Its about buying time a mainstream staple.
As such, we have better, while for others the ability to pop into with family and friends launched an increasing number of ranges a small store on the way home is a daily or for yourself which cater for consumers who are looking helping hand.
Whichever way our for new and innovative plant-based consumers choose to shop, we try to convenience across wraps, pizzas and ensure our ranges are easy to access.
In the US, consumers eat out as often as In the US, we are focusing on the they eat at home.
Again, this behaviour has WE CREATE MEAL SOLUTIONS importance of ingredients and bringing shaped the market, which is still dominated many of the trends which have proved Its about providing by large stores, which must work hard to successful in the UK to drive fresh growth accessibleoptions no matter inspire consumers against a strong in a geography where frozen and ambient whatthe occasion foodservice sector.
Perimeter shopping for have historically been dominant.
With this fresh meals is growing rapidly and store in mind, we have developed a new brand formats are changing to allow shoppers in meals and dips.
access to FPF more easily.
Similarly in China, whilst the demand for In China, foodservice outlets and coffee WE ENABLE PEOPLE TO healthy and fresh food solutions is high, channels dominate the landscape.
For the the FPF market accounts for a much MAKE A DIFFERENCE foodservice channel, offering products that smaller share of consumer spend than can be easy to use in store is important.
Its about being able in the UK.
The key to unlocking growth In order to achieve freshness and to meet the demands of the is consumer trust.
The team in China have convenience, we deliver products like leaf socially-conscious worked to create and launch a new brand base, mix grains and dressings in individual called Fresh Kitchen to give a clear brand ingredient bags to our customers.
The identity to healthy and fresh products.
consumer can then be served a finished Fresh Kitchen is now established as meal in a quick and simple way.
a convenience retail range with a branded fresh food counter and food-to-go fixture, and the first online products have now launched.
