Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 85 Directors report other disclosures Details of shares purchased by the Balfour Directors report All provisions related to indemnities and Beatty Share Ownership Trust in relation The Directors of Balfour Beatty plc present insurance are reviewed annually.
tothe Companys share schemes can be theirreport, together with the audited accounts found in Note 30.3 on page 170.
All shares for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Articles of association purchased were ordinary 50p shares.
The Company has not adopted any special For the purpose of the Financial Reporting Thepercentage of called-up share capital rules regarding the appointment and Councils Disclosure Guidance and represented by the shares purchased in replacement of Directors or the amendment Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
of the Articles of Association, other than as Directors report is also the Management provided under UK company law.
Major shareholders interests report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Notifications provided to the Company As permitted by Section 414 C 11 of the Share capital bymajor shareholders in accordance with Companies Act 2006, some matters required Details of the share capital of the Company theDTR are published via a Regulatory tobeincluded in the Directors report have asat 31 December 2018, including the rights Information Service and on the Companys instead been included in the Strategic report.
attaching to each class of shares, are set out website.
Pursuant to DTR 5, the Company These disclosures are incorporated by inNote 29 on page 167.
During the year has been notified of the following interests in reference in the Directors report.
The Strategic ended 31 December 2018, no ordinary voting rights in its shares as at 31 December report can be foundon pages 1to 67. orpreference shares were issued or 2018 and as at the date of this report: repurchased for cancellation.
Percentage Percentage Corporate governance of voting of voting At 31 December 2018, the Directors had The Governance section on pages 68 to rights % as at rights % as authority under shareholder resolutions 31 December at 4 March 103, including the Compliance with the Code approved at the AGM and at the Class 2018 2019 statement on page 69, forms part of the Meeting of preference shareholders held in Causeway Capital Directors report.
May 2018 to purchase through the market Management LLC 11.79 12.19 68,973,961 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 M&G Investment Directors and their interests preference shares at prices set out in those Management 6.39 6.37 The Directors who served during the year and resolutions.
This authority expires at the BlackRock Inc 6.46 6.23 were Directors at 31 December 2018 were earlier of the conclusion of the Class Meeting UBS Asset Philip Aiken, Leo Quinn, Philip Harrison, Iain of preference shareholders which will follow Management 5.51 5.52 Ferguson, Stephen Billingham, Stuart the 2019 AGM or on 1 July 2018 except in UBS collateral Doughty, Michael Lucki, Barbara Moorhouse relation to the purchase of shares the contract account 4.76 4.45 and Anne Drinkwater.
Further details and for which was concluded before the expiry of Invesco Limited 3.74 3.61 individual biographies are set out on page 71. this authority and which will or may be Pzena Investment executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The interests of the Directors and their Management 3.42 3.42 connected persons in the Companys shares, Throughout the year, all the Companys Vanguard Group 3.30 3.38 as notifiable to the Company under Article 19 issued share capital was publicly listed of the Market Abuse Regulation are set out on ontheLondon Stock Exchange and it Dividends page 100.
In the period between remainsso as at the date of this report.
An interim dividend of 1.6p per ordinary share 31 December 2018 and the date of this report There are no specific restrictions on the was approved by the Board on 14 August there has been no change in the interests of sizeof a shareholding nor on the transfer 2018 and a final dividend of 3.2p per ordinary Directors or their connected persons save for ofshares which are both governed by the share will be recommended at the Annual the increase of 109 ordinary shares held in the Articles of Association and the prevailing General Meeting, giving a total dividend per Share Incentive Plan for Leo Quinn.
The Directors are not aware of any ordinary share of 4.8p for 2018 2017: 3.6p.
agreements between holders of the At no time during 2018 did any of the Preference dividends totalling 10.75p per Companys shares that may result in Directors have a material interest in any preference share were paid in 2018 restrictions on the transfer of shares contract with the Company or any of 2017: 10.75p.
The Directors continued to offer the dividend No person has special rights of control over reinvestment plan, which allows holders Directors indemnities and insurance the Companys share capital and all issued ofordinary shares to reinvest their cash The Company maintains directors and shares are fully paid.
dividends in the Companys shares through officers liability insurance which provides aspecially arranged share dealingservice.
appropriate cover for legal action brought Shares held by the Balfour Beatty Employee against its directors.
Share Ownership Trust rank pari passu with Branches the ordinary shares in issue andhave no Qualifying third party indemnity provisions As the Group is an international business, special rights.
Voting rights and rights of were in force during 2018 and as at the date there are activities operated through branches acceptance of any offer relating to the of this report for the benefit of certain in certain jurisdictions.
shares held in this trust rest with the employees who were directors of a trustees, who may take account of any subsidiary company.
Auditor recommendation from the Company.
Voting KPMG LLP has indicated its willingness to Qualifying pension scheme indemnity rights are not exercisable by the employees continue as auditor to the Company and a provisions as defined by Section 235 of the on whose behalf the shares areheld in trust.
resolution for its re-appointment will be Companies Act 2006 were in force during proposed at the 2019 AGM.
the year ended 31 December 2018 for the benefit of the trustee directors of the Balfour Beatty Pension Scheme.
com AR2018 86 Directors report other disclosures continued In the US and Canada, corporate political Innovation, future development and provide market competitive pay and contributions totalling US$203,000 research and development benefits that reward both individual 152,300 were made by business units Information concerning innovation, future andcollective performance during 2018 2017: US$26,100 19,306. development and researchand development ensure that all job applicants receive The increase indonations made in 2018 is is set out on pages 30 to 32, and forms part fairtreatment, regardless of age, origin, largely due to payments made by the of the Directors report disclosures.
gender, disability, sexual orientation, business unit based inCalifornia over 80% maritalstatus, religion or belief ofthe total payments made to support voter Policies ensure that all employees similarly receive approval for the issuance of school bonds.
The Groups published policies on health fair treatment throughout their career 2018 was an election year in California and andsafety, sustainability, sustainable provide a working environment of the bond measures, which voters must procurement, modern slavery, social value, respectand free from harassment.
approve, aregenerally timed to coincide environment, business conduct and ethics withthe election cycle.
remain in place and can be accessed on its The Group provides fair and flexible website https: www.
com employment policies and practices that Any political contributions or donations are how-we-work our-code-of-conduct policies respond to the different needs of its people.
tightly controlled and must be approved in Information concerning employee diversity advance in accordance with the Companys Sustainability isset out on page 35 and forms part of internal procedures and must also adhere A full description of the Groups approach to theDirectors report disclosures.
strictly to the Companys policies on probity sustainability, including information on its set out in its Code of Conduct.
Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, community engagement programme, training and development opportunities for appears on pages 30 to 43.
Capitalised interest disabled people wherever possible and is Details of the Groups capitalised interest can committed to supporting employees who Greenhouse gas emissions be found in Notes 15 and 17 on pages 143 become disabled during employment and Details of Balfour Beattys Scope 1 and 2 and 145 respectively.
helping disabled employees make the best greenhouse gas emissions during the year use of their skills and potential, consistent and the actions which the Group is taking to Financial instruments with all other employees.
reduce them are set out on pages 39 and 40 The Groups financial risk management and form part of the Directors The Company operates an all employee share objectives and policies including its hedging report disclosures.
incentive plan SIP which enables UK-based policy and its exposure to the following risks employees to acquire the Companys ordinary liquidity, foreign currency, interest rate, price Employment shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, in and credit are detailed in Note 38 on pages The Balfour Beatty Group operates across order to encourage employee share 178 to 182. anumber of geographies and end markets.
ownership and provide additional alignment between the interestsofemployees and Change of control provisions Balfour Beatty provides a Human Resources shareholders.
Participants in the SIP are the The Groups bank facility agreements contain framework for promoting diversity, ethical beneficial owners of shares but not the provisions that, on 30 days notice being behaviour and learning and development as registered owners, and the voting rights to given to the Group, the lender may exercise well as continuing to fulfil its commitments such sharesare exercised by the trustee of its discretion to require prepayment of any inrelation to regulation and corporate the SIPat the discretion of the participants.
loans on a change of control of the Company governance.
The key principles in the design and cancel all commitments under the and practice of employment policy that are Information concerning financial and agreement concerned.
applicable across the Group are to: economic factors affecting the performance ofthe Group and the Companys share A number of significant joint venture and provide a safe, open, inclusive and priceis available to all employees via the contract bond agreements include provisions challenging environment that attracts Companys intranet site.
which become exercisable by a counterparty andretains the best people on a change of control of the Company.
enable two way communication, using Events after the reporting date These include the right of a counterparty to various formal and informal communication As at 12 March 2019, there were no material request additional security and to terminate and consultation methods including post balance sheet events arising after the an agreement.
engagement surveys, employee reporting date.
broadcasts, themed roadshows and The Groups US private placement localised all-hands calls arrangements require the Company, promptly Political donations upon becoming aware that a change of enable all employees to perform at their At the AGM held in May 2018, shareholders control of the Company has occurred and in best and realise their full potential, assisted gave authority for the Company and its UK any event within 10 business days, to give by appropriate training and subsidiaries to make donations to political written notice of such fact to all holders of the career development organisations up to a maximum aggregate notes and make an offer to prepay the entire communicate the strategy of the Group, amount of 25,000 in the European Union.
unpaid principal amount of the notes, the objectives of each respective business This approval is a precautionary measure in together with accrued interest.
and the role and objectives of each view of the broad definition of these terms employee within that business inthe Companies Act.
No such expenditure Some other commercial agreements, entered or donations were made during the year and into in the normal course of business, include actively consult with all employees shareholder authority will be sought again change of control provisions.
andengage in a participating environment atthe 2019 AGM.
that fosters the exchange of best practice and collaboration Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 87 Statements of Directors as to disclosure The Groups share and incentive plans include The Directors are responsible for keeping of information to auditors usual provisions relating to change of control, adequate accounting records that are Each of the Directors at the date of approval as do the terms of the Companys cumulative sufficient to show and explain the Companys of this report confirms that: convertible redeemable preference shares.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position so far as the Director is aware, there is There are no agreements providing ofthe Company and enable them to ensure norelevant audit information of which forcompensation for the Directors that its financial statements comply with the theCompanys auditors are unaware oremployees on a change of control.
They are responsible the Director has taken all the steps that for such internal control as they determine Statement ofDirectors responsibilities heor she ought to have taken as a Director isnecessary to enable the preparation The Directors are responsible for preparing to make himself or herself aware of any offinancial statements that are free from the Annual Report including this Directors relevant audit information and to establish material misstatement, whether due to report and the Group and Company financial that the Companys auditors are aware fraudor error, and have general responsibility statements in accordance with applicable ofthat information.
for taking such steps as are reasonably open lawand regulations.
As set out above, the to them to safeguard the assets of the This confirmation is given and should be Directors are Philip Aiken, Leo Quinn, Philip Groupand to prevent and detect fraud interpreted in accordance with the provisions Harrison, Iain Ferguson, Barbara Moorhouse, andother irregularities.
of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Stephen Billingham, Stuart Doughty, Under applicable law and regulations, MichaelLucki and Anne Drinkwater.
By order of the Board theDirectors are also responsible for Company law requires the Directors to Jonathan Lagan preparing astrategic report, Directors prepare Group and Company financial Group General Counsel report, Directors remuneration report statements for each financial year.
Under that andCompany Secretary andcorporate governance statement that law they are required to prepare the Group complywith that law and those regulations.
12 March 2019 financial statements in accordance with The Directors are responsible for the International Financial Reporting Standards Registered Office: maintenance and integrity of the corporate asadopted by the European Union IFRSs 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf and financial information included on the asadopted by the EU and applicable law London E14 5HU Companys website.
Legislation in the UK andhave elected to prepare the Company Registered in England and Wales, governing the preparation and dissemination financial statements in accordance with UK registerednumber 395826 of financial statements may differ from accounting standards, including FRS 101 legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best Under company law, the Directors must oftheir knowledge: notapprove the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the financial statements, prepared in view of the state of affairs of the Group and accordance with the applicable set of Company and of their profit or loss for that accounting standards, give a true and period.
In preparing each of the Group and fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial Company financial statements, the Directors position and profit or loss of the Company are required to: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole select suitable accounting policies andthenapply them consistently the Strategic Report includes a fair review make judgements and estimates that are of the development and performance reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent ofthe business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included for the Group financial statements, inthe consolidation taken as a whole, statewhether they have been prepared together with a description of the principal inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted risks and uncertainties that they face.
bythe EU for the Company financial statements, In light of the work undertaken by the state whether applicable UK accounting Auditand Risk Committee reported in standards have been followed, subject greaterdetail on pages 82 to 84 and the toany material departures disclosed internal verification and approval process andexplained in the Company which has been followed, the Directors financial statements areable to state that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced assess the Groups and the Companys and understandable and provides the ability to continue as a going concern, information necessary for shareholders disclosing, as applicable, matters toassess the Companys position and relatedtogoing concern performance, businessmodel and strategy.
use the going concern basis of accountingunless they either intend toliquidate the Group or the Company ortocease operations, or have no realisticalternative but to do so.
