12 Our priorities Build to Last Why is it important?
Our KPIs When we deliver buildings and Lean Deliver value to our customers We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their infrastructure, we expect them to byimproving operational efficiency money:we need to be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and Net cash excluding Underlying profit survivethe test of time.
For Balfour and eliminating waste right through workwith our customers to ensure their money is spent in the best way non-recourse borrowings from operations possible.
Providing customers with better value for their money drives Beattyto remain at the forefront of the supply chain.
ourcompetitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to ourindustry we need to continuously investbackinto developing our expertise.
Lean is measured against 337m 205m ourfinancial returns: cash flow performance and profit from operations.
improveefficiency, lead innovation andalways operate safely.
These are 2017: 335m 2017: 196m 112 thedrivers ofvaluefor our customers.
Our KPI Expert Ensure we have the best We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers engineering, design and project byconstantly driving innovation.
Our strongest differentiator is our Employee management capabilities.
engineering and project management capabilities.
Having the best engagement index talentsupported by the strongest supply chain creates a virtuous circle thatensures we win the best and most exciting projects to deliver.
Expert ismeasured against employee engagement.
Our KPI Trusted Be the construction partner Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do ofchoice for our customers Our purpose whatwesay we will do.
A robust risk management framework ensures Customer andsupply chain by delivering that challenges are mitigated and projects are delivered in the right way.
satisfaction average Satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects Create infrastructure onour promises.
Trusted is measured against customer satisfaction.
Support communities 97% 55 Enable growth 2017: 94% Our vision Why is it important?
Our KPI To be the leading engineering Safe We must ensure the healthand Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do we must protect andinfrastructure company safety of everyone who comes ouremployees, our supply chain partners, our customers and the public.
Lost Time Injury Rate inourchosen markets intocontact with our activities.
Construction is an inherently dangerous business and without the highest excluding standards of safety we do not have a licence to operate.
A safe and healthyworkplace is also happier, more motivated and more efficient.
international JVs Safe is measured against our commitment to Zero Harm.
Our values 0.15 33 Talk positively 2017: 0.17 Collaborate relentlessly Encourage constantly Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 Why is it important?
Our KPIs Lean Deliver value to our customers We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their byimproving operational efficiency money:we need to be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and Net cash excluding Underlying profit and eliminating waste right through workwith our customers to ensure their money is spent in the best way non-recourse borrowings from operations possible.
Providing customers with better value for their money drives the supply chain.
ourcompetitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to investbackinto developing our expertise.
Our KPI Trusted Be the construction partner Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do ofchoice for our customers whatwesay we will do.
satisfaction average Satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects onour promises.
Our KPI Safe We must ensure the healthand Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do we must protect safety of everyone who comes ouremployees, our supply chain partners, our customers and the public.
Lost Time Injury Rate intocontact with our activities.
com AR2018 14 What we have been doing in 2018 How we create value What we have been doingin2018 We operate across three sectors: Construction Services, Support Services and Infrastructure Investments, and over the following pages we review their performance and look at some of their projects.
Caltrain Electrification of the52-mile Caltrain rail corridor between San Francisco and San Jose, laying the foundations forthe future operation ofhigh speed trains.
Los Angeles Automated People Mover LAX US$4.9 billion project todevelop a 2.25-mile, above-ground airport transport system connecting passengers with the airline terminals artists impression.
Mayflower Water Treatment Works A new state-of-the-art water treatment works to serve Plymouth and the surrounding area.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 Construction Services halfof 2018, UK Constructions underlying Total revenue Construction Services continued PFOmargin was2.4%, within the 2-3% industry tomake good progress during the standard margin target range.
yearwith increasing profit, PFO The UK order book increased 11% to 3.0 billion margin and order book across all 2017: 2.7 billion.
The UK Construction business continued to be selective in the work that it bids, threechosen markets.
through increased bid margin thresholds, improved 79% risk frameworks and better contract governance.
Financial review Underlying revenue decreased by 8% to UK Construction is continuing to manage historical 6,127 million 2017: 6,649 million, a 6% problem contracts through to completion.
At the start decreaseat CER as a result of a managed reduction of 2015, 89 historical contracts were identified that inthe order book during 2017.
Revenues declined had a material negative impact on profitability and by5% in the UK, 8% in the US 5% at CER and cash.
At 2018 year end, only five of these contracts 12%at Gammon 8% at CER.
were still to reach financial completion.
Order book Underlying profit from operations PFO continued The UK Construction business is organised into toimprove under Build to Last as all geographies threebusiness units consisting of: hadan increase in both absolute profit and margin 9.8bn Major Projects: focused on complex projects percentage.
The Group achieved its industry inkeymarket sectors such as transportation, 2017: 8.3bn standardmargin targets for UK Construction heavyinfrastructure and energy: andUSConstruction in the second half of 2018.
Regional: civil engineering, ground engineering, The order book at 9.8 billion 2017: 8.3 billion Underlying revenue mechanical and electrical engineering, and increased by 18% 14% at CER due to increases building, providing private and public customers inthe US 21%, 16% at CER, Gammon 23%, 14% with locally delivered flexible and fully integrated atCER and the UK 11%.
The increases occurred civil and building services: and 6,127m whilst maintaining the Groups policy of selective Rail: civil engineering, track, power bidding.
The 2.5 billion Balfour Beatty 50% joint 2017: 6,649m andelectrification projects.
venture HS2 contracts won in 2017 will not be included in the order book until the conclusion The Major Projects business continues to pursue oftheEarly Contractor Involvement ECI phase, anumber of key infrastructure opportunities across Statutory revenue nowexpected at the end of 2019. core transportation and energy markets.
Over the next few years HS2, new nuclear power Hinkley In the Construction Services portfolio there are andairport expansion Heathrow will all contribute asmall number of long-term and complex projects 5,217m tothe UK Governments investment in infrastructure, where the Group has incorporated judgements which is forecast to rise from 0.8% of GDP in 2017: 5,597m overcontractual outcomes.
The range of potential 2015 16to over 1% of GDP by 2020 21.
In addition, outcomes as a result of uncertain future events the highways market continues to provide good couldresult in a materially positive or negative swing growth opportunities following the UK Governments Underlying profit to profitability and cash flow.
These contracts are proposed 32 billion funding for Highways primarily within the major infrastructure business fromoperations EnglandsRoad Investment Strategy.
units in the UK, US and Gammon.
In April, the Major Projects business completed Operational review thethird and final phase of the Norwich Northern 95m UK Distributor Road NNDR.
The scheme, which has Underlying revenue in the UK reduced by 5% seen delivery of 20 kilometres of dual carriageway, 2017: 72m to1,900 million 2017: 1,998 million.
Underlying including the construction of 13 roundabouts and profit from operations showed an improvement to eight bridges, will alleviate congestion around the 28 million 2017: 16 million with an associated Statutory profit cityof Norwich.
F rom continuing operations 3 Before non-underlying items Note 10. including share of joint ventures andassociates, before nonA reconciliation of the Groups performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial performance section.
com AR2018 16 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Construction Services continued During the year, significant progress has been madeon flagship projects.
In November, the UKs largest current road construction project, the A14 inCambridgeshire, reached its half-way point.
The project started in November 2016 and is ontargetto be completed by December 2020.
Since work started, more than eight million working hours have gone into the project, with nine new bridges already opened and construction well underway on 25 more.
Following Carillion filing for liquidation, Balfour Beatty has assumed Carillions share of this contract with the revised three-way joint venture working collaboratively to deliver the project.
On HS2, ECI work is ongoing on the main civils works, which were awarded as two-part design and build contracts in July 2017.
Balfour Beatty VINCI won two lots around Birmingham, N1 and N2, worth about 2.5 billion.
These contracts are included in awarded but not contracted ABNC during the ECI period.
The joint venture team is currently working on the design and pricing of the two lots, with the ECI workexpected to be completed by the end of 2019.
In February 2019, HS2 announced that it intends to appoint Balfour Beatty VINCI SYSTRA joint venture as the construction team that will be awarded a contract to manage the construction of the 1.0 billion Old Oak Common station in London.
Balfour Beatty and VINCI each have a 41.75% share in the venture, with Systra having the remaining 16.5%.
Procurement processes are also underway on the railsystems contracts.
In March 2018, Balfour Beatty VINCI, which will work with Balfour Beatty NG Bailey as a delivery partner, submitted the pre-qualification response for the combined railway systems Lots 1 track and overhead catenary system works and2 tunnel and open route mechanical and electrical works worth approximately 1.9 billion.
Announcement of successful pre-qualified bidders isdue in 2019 with Invitation To Tenders expected late that year and contracts awarded in 2020.
On Crossrail, Balfour Beattys three major projects: C510 Liverpool Street and Whitechapel Station tunnels : C512 Whitechapel Station : and C530 Woolwich Station all made headway during the year.
C510 has achieved financial completion with theother two projects agreeing new supplementary agreements.
Both projects are delivering in line withthe revised completion dates.
At Sellafield, good progress has been made with theongoing nuclear decommissioning projects.
The Silo Maintenance Facility SMF has completed its commissioning phase and been handed over toSellafield Ltd to allow it to decommission radioactive equipment.
Thames Tideway Tunnel Working in three-way joint venture to construct the west section of Londons new super sewer.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 At Hinkley Point C, Balfour Beattys expanding team In December, a Balfour Beatty VINCI joint venture UK continues to make positive progress on the project.
was awarded an M4 Smart Motorway contract.
As well as a growing presence at the main site, The project will convert the hard shoulder into an Underlying revenue Balfour Beatty has a larger site at Avonmouth.
additional lane for traffic and introduce  in January 2018, it is now home to nearly policed variable speed restrictions between junction 3 200 direct employees and subcontractors.
The project of the M4, just inside the M25 near Heathrow Airport, 1,900m involves the construction of a pair of six-metre and junction 12 at Theale, west of Reading.
As part diameter underwater tunnels to supply the nuclear ofthe works, 11 overbridges will be replaced with 2017: 1,998m power station with cooling water and a third sevenlarger span structures and six underbridges will metre diameter tunnel to discharge heated water bewidened to accommodate four lanes.
The M4 back into the Bristol Channel.
Three tunnel boring projectis subsequent to the same partnership being Order book machines will use rotating cutting heads to excavate a awarded acontract to convert the M6 junctions 2-4 total of 9 kilometres of tunnel the two 3.5-kilometre toa SmartMotorway earlier in 2018. intake tunnels and one 1.8-kilometre outfall tunnel.
3.0bn The Regional business comprises: At the Thames Tideway Tunnel project work Regional Construction: four regions Scotland 2017: 2.7bn continues on the six-kilometre west section &Ireland, North & Midlands, South and London whichruns from Acton to Wandsworth.
providing public and private customers with Excavation workstothe tunnelling shaft at the locallydelivered, flexible and fully integrated Carnwath Road Riverside site are now complete civiland building services: withpreparation works to launch the main tunnel Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering: specialist boring machine well underway.
geotechnical contractor providing innovative In 2018, the Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route pilingand ground improvement solutions AWPR project experienced schedule slippage and acrossallsectors: and cost increases.
In the year, Balfour Beatty recognised Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick: heavy mechanical and an additional 29 million loss on the AWPR project.
electrical M&E installations and building services.
A third of this charge 10 million has been recognised in non-underlying items as this reflects The Regional business is focused on opportunities the additional loss that the Group has incurred across five sectors aviation, buildings, civils, infulfilling Carillions obligations on the contract.
The AWPR loss represents a net charge made Within Regional, in line with the Groups strategy, upofcost increases on the project partially offset thebusiness has simplified with an improved span of byrecovery positions that the Group believes are control as it operates fewer projects.
The number of highlyprobable to be agreed.
The final section live projects, which was over 400 at December 2015 oftheAWPR project was fully open to traffic on has subsequently fallen to under 250 at December 19 February 2019 with the final financial out-turn 2018.
During Build to Last, there has also been a ofthis contract dependent upon the result of shifttowards a lower risk contract portfolio, with ongoingclaims discussions.
areduction in the number of fixed price contracts offsetby an increase in two-stage fixed cost and The Major Projects business had a number of target cost contracts and framework agreements.
notablenew contract awards in the year.
In July, These agreements require early contract engagement Balfour Beatty was awarded a project to turn the with the customer to ensure greater clarity around M20junctions 8-9 into a contraflow system and scope, schedule and cost which, in combination, convert the central reservation into a lorry park.
reduces delivery risk for all parties.
In November, Major Projects secured a place on two The Regional business is increasingly focused on lots B6 in the South East worth up to 1.1 billion, customers with around 75% of all work won in 2018 and B8 in the North worth up to 2 billion on from repeat customers.
In November, Balfour Beatty Highways Englands Delivery Integration Partnership won Partner of the Year at the Team Heathrow Framework.
The initial packages of work which Partnership awards ceremony.
Balfour Beatty has secured through these lots are worth a total of 425 million with work commencing The Groups largest framework agreement, the in 2019.
This regional six-year framework will see ScapeNational Civil Engineering and Infrastructure contractors work with Highways England as partners framework, secured 1.5 billion of civil engineering responsible for designing and constructing and infrastructure work under the initial four-year motorwayand major A-road projects across framework.
Since being appointed as main contractor England.
Balfour Beattys digitally-enhanced way in 2015 over 100 projects have been completed on ofworkingwas instrumental in securing both lots.
In October, it was announced In collaboration with design partner, Atkins, Balfour that Balfour Beatty had been appointed as the Beatty will utilise Building Information Modelling solecontractor to Scapes second generation civil BIM to improve efficiencies in delivering works engineering frameworks, valued at a combined andwill also deploy offsite manufacturing techniques.
The Scape National This is a direct result of the Groups vision to reduce CivilEngineering framework, which is valued at onsite activity by 25% by the year 2025, driving 1.6 billion, covers England, Wales and Northern greater project efficiency and safety and lower waste Ireland, while the Scape Civil Engineering Scotland by moving away from traditional industry methods.
framework, valued at 500 million, covers Scotland.
com AR2018 18 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Construction Services continued Hinkley Point C Major contracts at Hinkley Point C include the Northand South 400kV Overhead Line project, the electrical works package and the tunnelling and marine works package artists impression.
The frameworks allow local authorities, local In the year, the Regional business achieved a enterprise partnerships and other public sector keymilestone at the University of Manchesters bodiesto commission works through a procurement 287 million Manchester Engineering Campus process that provides the fastest route to market Development MECD project with the first reinforced andutilises early contractor engagement to deliver concrete core reaching full height.
The core, which best value design solutions.
isone of four, will be an integral component of the seven-storey MEC Hall building, housing lift shafts In September, Balfour Beatty was selected by and stairwells.
At the University of Sussex student theMidlands Highway Alliance to deliver vital accommodation project, which will incorporate transport infrastructure as part of its new over2,000 new beds as well as innovative student 500 millionMediumSchemes Framework MSF3.
amenities such as social hubs and a new student union Balfour Beatty is oneof four contractors to have facility, nearly 40% of the rooms had been handed over beenawarded a placeon the framework which by year end.
Other material ongoing projects include: willcover highways improvements, maintenance the 150 million Madison Tower, a 53-storey residential andinfrastructure works.
building in Canary Wharf, London where modular In 2018, the Regional business completed the construction, including offsite manufacturing 63 million Rossall coastal defence scheme for Wyre techniques, is central to Balfour Beattys approach in Council in partnership with the Environment Agency.
delivering the 187-metre high building: a 54 million The scheme protects the towns tramway, hospital project to construct Forth Valley College, Scotland: andschools whilst reducing flood risk to 7,500 nearby therenovation and new-build scheme at No.
1 Palace residential properties through two kilometres of sea Street in St James, London: and train stations at defences.
Other projects completed during the year Warrington West new station and Queen Street included: Balfour Beatty Kilpatricks 178 million Station, Glasgow redevelopment.
Urenco Tails Management Facility project: a 46 million In addition to the framework wins during the year, project for Wanda at One Nine Elms which represents theRegional business also had a number of notable Balfour Beatty Ground Engineerings largest ever piling new contract awards in the year including: project for a non-Group customer: Aberdeen South ofthe City school, a 47 million project delivering a Curzon Street: work has begun on a new-build 1,350pupil academy on behalf of Hub North Scotland development comprising 32 apartments at and Aberdeen City Council: a 44 million 33-storey 60Curzon Street, London: student accommodation scheme at Miles Street, Vine Street: 85 million contract to construct a London for Urbanest: a 37 million luxury retirement student accommodation scheme for Urbanest complex for Audley Retirement Villages at Redwood, inthe City of London: Bristol: and the new 30 million Dundee train station London City Airport: 60 million mechanical and and hotel.
electrical contract to enable growth of the airport: Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19 New Cross: 40 million contract for student In June, the Group launched a new Rail US accommodation in Manchester which will InnovationCentre at its Raynesway facility in Derby.
feature274 apartments: The purpose-built centre is a dedicated research, Underlying revenue development and testing facility to support Balfour University of Strathclyde: 33 million contract to Beattys contribution to the development of the digital construct a new learning and teaching building: railway for a more reliable, cost efficient and safe 3,329m University of Reading: 33 million contract to railway network for all users across the UK and deliver a new Health and Life Sciences building: overseas.
Omnicom Balfour Beatty, which creates 2017: 3,634m Hornsea Project Two: appointed to build the remote surveying systems that give maintenance onshore substation for the worlds largest engineers a distinct advantage, is now actively offshorewind farm: and applying machine learning and artificial intelligence Order book Midland Metropolitan Hospital: awarded tooffer next generation asset management to a10 million early works contract on behalf customers, making the railways safer, more ofSandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals reliableand more efficient.
US 2017: 4.3bn Included in ABNC at 31 December 2018 the Underlying revenue in the US fell by 8% in the year Grouphas been selected as preferred bidder for: 5% at CER to 3,329 million 2017: 3,634 million theredevelopment of the Darwin Building at the following the reduction to the order book during University of Edinburgh: a new 10-kilometre 2017.
The business reported an underlying bypassconnecting Caernarfon and Bontnewydd profitfromoperations for the year of 44 million inNorthWales: phase one of the East Wick 2017: 41 million.
The underlying PFO margin was andSweetwater residential project at the Queen 1.3% for the full year 2017: 1.1%.
In the second half ElizabethOlympic Park: and an Audley retirement of 2018, US Constructions underlying PFO margin village in Scarcroft, Leeds.
was 1.5%, within the 1-2% industry standard margin target range.
Overall the trajectory of the US business In the Rail Construction business, underlying is positive and market conditions are favourable.
revenues were broadly flat in the year.
The business completed the West Outer Track Infrastructure, The 21% 16% at CER increase in the US order book Western Overhead Electrification and South East has been achieved at a quality consistent with the Spur projects as part of its continued support of Groups stated policy of selective bidding for those theCrossrail programme and work commenced projects best aligned with its capabilities.
In June, the onthe examination, repair specification and report US$1.95 billion Los Angeles airport LAX Automated into the condition and safety of the Rhondda Tunnel.
People Mover project reached financial completion During the year, the Rail Construction business such that the Groups 30% share of the construction wonthe Reactive Building and Civils contract contract has been included in the order book.
worthupto50 million to perform work arising In addition, the Group won over US$1 billion of related toNetwork Rails building infrastructure contracts for schools and higher education, primarily intheWestCountry.
in California and North Carolina, during the year.
com AR2018 20 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Construction Services continued Southern Gateway This scheme involves reconstructing and improving the Southern Gateway, an 11-mile stretch of road in Dallas, Texas.
Balfour Beatty continues to develop its US In 2018, Buildings completed a number of notable organisation, building on the standardisation and projects including: leaning out already delivered.
At the start of 2018, VY Reston Heights: in January, the Group thepromotion of two internal candidates to lead completed the 483,000 square foot, mixed-use theBuildings and Civils businesses, has delivered residential development in Reston, Virginia.
animproved overall performance with growing The 385-unit residential community includes momentum in the pipeline.
89,000 square feet of retail space: In December 2015, the FAST Act Fixing Park District: in April, Balfour Beatty completed the AmericasSurface Transportation, a US$305 billion 916,000 square foot, mixed-used development in transportation bill was signed, providing authorised Dallas, Texas.
The project includes a 20-storey spending for a five-year period.
This bill permits office tower and a 34-storey residence tower: longer term project planning horizons in the public Icon Midtown: in October, Balfour Beatty market and is leading to improved visibility for publicly completed work on the 39-storey residential tower funded projects that had been slow to come to in Atlanta, Georgia.
Located in Atlantas Midtown market.
There are further opportunities being created area, the project features 390 luxury apartments with the number of state backed infrastructure bonds with 6,500 square feet of retail space: and over US$35 billion of education bonds in California, Broadway Tower: in November, Balfour Beatty over US$200 billion of multi-state transportation completed the 430,000 square foot, mixed-use bonds and increases in: US public-private partnership development in Portland, Oregon.
The project schemes: state gasoline taxes: and local county sales includes a 19-storey tower with 175,000 square taxes dedicated to local infrastructure.
feet of office space, 180 hotel rooms, and four In the US approximately 85% of revenues are levels of underground parking.
generated from the general building market During the year good progress has been made Buildings, with the civil infrastructure market onflagship projects including: Civils accounting for the remaining 15%.
REI Headquarters: in April, Balfour Beatty The Buildings business remains focused on brokeground on a mixed-use headquarters workingwith repeat customers and in known projectincluding office buildings, conference geographies where it can deliver value.
The business centre, market and parking totalling nearly is focused onspecific geographies, known internally 724,000square feet in the Spring District as The Southern Smile.
This starts in the Pacific ofBellevue, Washington: North West, runs through California, Texas, Floridaand up through Georgia and the Carolinas Capitol Crossing: in May, Balfour Beatty topped toWashington DC.
The core markets remain outthe 12-storey 250 Massachusetts tower in ascommercial offices, education, hospitality, Washington DC, having previously topped out the residential and healthcare.
The two towers comprising the North Block will ultimately total 960,000 square feet: Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21 The Epic: in June, Balfour Beatty topped out a Included in ABNC, the business has been made 16-storey office tower located in Dallas which preferred bidder for: a US$605 million contract for includes 290,000 square feet of office space: theBroward County Convention Center Expansion and Headquarters Hotel: a US$150 million contract Gables Station: in July, after contract award, the foran Atlanta airport hotel: a US$120 million contract Group commenced the construction phase of the for a 390,000 square foot office tower, 200-room 1.3 million square foot, mixed-use Gables Station hotel and adjoining outdoor public plaza in Bethesda, development located in Coral Gables, Florida.
Maryland: and a US$55 million contract for the Comprised of three towers, the development University of North Carolina Marriott Hotel and willfeature 120,000 square feet of retail space, Conference Center in Charlotte.
500residential units, and a 1,000-car parking garage: and The Civils business continues to operate in the largely 500 Folsom: at the end of the year Balfour Beatty regulated markets of rail, water and road.
In March had completed 40 floors out of 43 liveable floors 2018, Civils completed the construction of Charlottes and the project was topped out in January 2019. light-rail extension Blue Line after four years of build.
The building will provide 545 residential units The 9.6-mile 15.45-kilometre Blue Line provides intheSouth of Market SOMA district of service to 15 stations located within the Charlotte SanFrancisco, California.
In December, the new Surf City high-rise bridge opened nine months ahead of schedule The Buildings business had a number of notable connecting the mainland of Surf City to the popular newcontract awards in the year including: tourist destination of Topsail Island in North Carolina.
Los Angeles World Airports: in June, Balfour Beatty Additionally during the year, good progress has been and its LAX Integrated Express Solutions LINXS made on key contracts with mobilisation at both the joint venture team reached financial close of the US$625 million Southern Gateway 45% Balfour  DBFOM Beatty, 55% Fluor and US$1.08 billion Green Line Automated People Mover APM project.
At Southern Balfour Beatty is a 30% joint venture partner in Gateway, an 11-mile stretch of road in Dallas, Texas, theUS$1.95 billion construction element of the the design is now complete, with the widening of project with the work to be delivered across frontage roads and mainline barrier demolition well boththe Buildings and Civils divisions: underway.
At Green Line, a 4.7-mile commuter rail Microsoft Redmond Campus: the Group has been extension in Boston, Massachusetts, the design selected, in joint venture with Skanska, as general isnear complete and construction activities contractor on Microsofts head office refresh in commenced in the second half of 2018.
The project will include aUS$697 million contract for the electrification 18new buildings, clustered into four distinct ofthe52-mile rail corridor between San Francisco villages to create a unified campus: andSan Jose, design work is near complete and Stovall Street: the Group has been awarded a foundation work and overhead catenary system contract by Perseus TDC for the conversion of a construction areongoing.
610,000 square foot office building in Alexandria, In addition to its involvement with the Buildings Virginia.
The adaptive reuse project will transform business in the Los Angeles World Airports project the existing 13-storey office building into a described above, the Civils business had a number 16-storey, mixed-use residential development: ofnotable new contract awards in the year including: Osprey: Toll Brothers Apartment Living has EchoWater Project: in April, Balfour Beatty was contracted Balfour Beatty as construction manager awarded a US$299 million contract by Sacramento for its mixed-use, multifamily project in West Regional County Sanitation District to construct a Midtown Atlanta, Georgia.
Balfour Beatty is new water treatment plant that will produce cleaner leveraging Prescients modular construction water for discharge to the Sacramento River, as technology and offsite manufacturing platform well as for potential reuse as recycled water: and tobuild the projects entire tower structure: Sterling Valley Water: US$150 million contract Wellington Green: ZOM Senior Living has toconstruct a wastewater treatment facility that contracted Balfour Beatty as construction manager will recharge the natural groundwater aquifer by for the first phase of Wellington Green Senior treating up to eight million gallons of water per day.
Living, its mixed-use senior housing community The project will create a drought-proof source located in Wellington, Florida: and ofwater for the local aquifers which serve over Shoal Creek: Balfour Beatty has been selected 800,000 San Bernardino Valley area residents.
todeliver the first phase of the mixed-use portion of The Grove project in Austin, Texas.
The 400,000 square foot development will include a commercial office building, retail space, and a 538-car parking garage.
com AR2018 22 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Construction Services continued Gammon space atop a five-level retail complex: and the Gammon At Gammon, Balfour Beattys 50:50 joint venture construction of a 71,000 square metre data centre for based in Hong Kong, the Groups share of underlying Global Switch in Hong Kong.
Work has also continued Underlying revenue revenue decreased by 12% 8% decrease at CER on a number of Civils projects in Hong Kong, including to898 million, consistent with the reduction in order the complex Tuen Mun-Chek Lap Kok TMCLK book in 2017.
Underlying profit increased to 23 million Viaduct project, which includes the design and 898m 2017: 15 million, and the order book increased construction of a dual two-lane sea viaduct.
by23% 14% at CER to 1.6 billion as a result of 2017: 1,017m Gammon had a number of notable new contract significant wins in the Buildings and Civils businesses.
awards in the year including: At Gammon, the timing of orders is more variable around a small number of large contracts.
Lyric Theatre Complex: HK$5.5 billion contract Order book toconstruct the final stage of the Lyric Theatre Gammon has a material share of the attractive Hong Complex.
Gammon has supported the delivery of Kong market.
Both the Buildings and Civils markets the development of the Lyric Theatre Complex since 1.6bn arefavourable with significant opportunities upcoming, 2016 when it was awarded a first contract by the including: a third runway at the international airport: West Kowloon Cultural District Authority WKCDA 2017: 1.3bn aten-year hospital development plan: and continued to deliver the foundation works, for which it twice investment in transportation infrastructure Central received the WKCDA highest commendation for Kowloon Highway, Mass Transit Railway MTR safety performance.
The order book is spread across a number wona further contract award to deliver the public of public and private customers.
In Buildings, the infrastructure and extended basement works.
focusis on productivity, efficiency and expanding This third contract forms the final stage of the thecustomer base on a selective basis.
In Civils, LyricTheatre development: thestrategy is to lever competitive advantage with Lohas Park: HK$4 billion construction contract akey area of future work likely to be from significant foralarge scale residential development at Tseung infrastructure programmes in Hong Kong and the Kwan O bay in the Sai Kung District, Hong Kong.
The development will include the construction During the year, the Civils business completed work ofthree 54-56 storey residential towers on a onthe West Kowloon Terminus North project for five-level podium: theexpress rail link to Shenzhen, China.
Work has Tuen Mun-Chek Lap Kok Link: HK$2.6 billion continued on major Buildings projects including: the Northern Connection Tunnel Buildings contract redevelopment of Somerset House into a 48-storey forthe Highways Department of the Government office building: the construction of the Lee Garden ofthe Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
Three Project, which will include 20 floors of office The works comprise the provision of electrical andmechanical facilitation to serve the newly constructed 5-kilometre tunnel from Tuen Mun toBoundary Crossing Facilities Island and will include the tunnels ventilation, road lighting, Somerset House, centralmonitoring and control systems: HongKong Sai Sha Road widening project: HK$2.3 billion HK$4 billion superstructure contract in a 50:50 joint venture with Sanfield contract to redevelop Management Ltd for the development project Somerset House in inShap Sze Heung, Sai Kung, Hong Kong: TaikooPlace, one of HongKongs bestM project: appointed by the WKCDA as the plannedbusiness hubs management contractor to oversee completion artists impression.
ofthe M project, a museum for visual culture, inHong Kong: and Global Switch: S$253 million data centre contract inSingapore for Global Switch, a leading owner, operator and developer of large-scale, carrier andcloud neutral, multi-tenanted data centres.
Further, in January 2019 Gammon was awarded theHomantin luxury residential project by Gold Topmont Ltd.
The project, worth HK$2.9 billion, willbecome an iconic landmark in the prestigious Homantin residential area in Kowloon, Hong Kong.
Since the start of 2015, Balfour Beatty has exited construction activities in the Middle East, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia and Canada.
F rom continuing operations including share of joint ventures andassociates, before nonunderlying items.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 Support Services In the year, power transmission and distribution Total revenue The Support Services segment successfully installed 148 new composite poles comprises utilities and toconnect the Dorenell wind farm to Blackhillock transportation businesses.
The business has continued its work onthe Eleclink project, in conjunction with the Rail Financial review business, to lay two 50-kilometre cables through Utilities operates across power transmission theChannel Tunnel and connect them to converter anddistribution and the gas and water sectors.
stations in Northern France and Kent.
In Folkestone 14% Transportation operates across rail, highways the seven-metre high Helix cable management andmanaged road schemes for local authorities.
system has been filled with the first 2.5-kilometre section of cable ready to be pulled into the Support Services revenue increased by 4% to Channel Tunnel.
1,104 million 2017: 1,061 million, driven by an increase in utilities.
Underlying profit from operations After a period of consolidation, notable new contract and PFO margin for the year increased to 46 million awards in the year included: Order book 2017: 41 million and 4.2% 2017: 3.9% respectively.
Hinkley Point: National Grid contract for In the second half of 2018 the underlying PFO margin cablingworks which will form part of the was 5.2%, above the industry standard margin HinkleyPoint C connection scheme.
The order book decreased involves the design, supply and construction of 10%to 2.8 billion 2017: 3.1 billion as an increase anew 8.5-kilometre 400kV double circuit cable 2017: 3.1bn intransportation was more than offset by the route fromLoxton in the Mendip Hills to a new expecteddecline in gas and water.
substation at Sandford: In 2019, the Group expects a revenue decline in Underlying revenue Two contracts worth c. 47 million for the Fort Support Services following the conclusion of the Area Augustus to Fort William 132kV Transmission 10 highways maintenance contract and a reduction in Reinforcement project: and power transmission and distribution.
Support Services 1,104m Two contracts worth c. 43 million for the Beauly underlying profit from operations is expected to be toKeith 132kV modernisation programme.
broadly in line with 2018 with the underlying PFO 2017: 1,061m margin expected to increase year-on-year.
In January 2019, Balfour Beatty was appointed todeliver a 214 million contract to provide 400kV Operational review overhead lines from Hinkley Point C on behalf of Statutory revenue Underlying utilities revenue increased by 7% National Grid.
As part of the contract, Balfour Beatty to651 million 2017: 608 million, driven by an will design, supply, install, test and commission a new increase at power transmission and distribution.
overhead line spanning 48.4 kilometres and crossing 1,076m The utilities order book reduced to 0.9 billion through the Mendip Hills in Somerset.
On completion, 2017: 1.3 billion as an increase at power was the new line will connect the power station with a 2017: 1,031m morethan offset by the expected decline in new substation in Avonmouth, Bristol.
This contract gasandwater as the current regulatory cycles represents the fourth major piece of work won by approachthe end of their periods.
Balfour Beatty for the new power station, following Underlying profit the electrical works package in joint venture with NG Despite the increased revenue, the power from operations Bailey in 2015, now part of the MEH Joint Venture, transmission and distribution business continues to the tunnelling and marine works package in 2017 undergo restructure and cost removal.
The business andthe 8.5-kilometre cabling contract won in 2018. has consolidated its strategy to focus primarily 46m onboth core clients and core markets.
The actions takenwill ensure that the business is focused 2017: 41m onthemost profitable areas of its market.
Statutory profit from operations 39m 2017: 39m Support Services 2018 2017 1 Order book bn 2.8 3.1 1 Revenue m 1,104 1,061 3 Profit from operations m 46 41 Non-underlying items m 7 2 Statutory profit from operations m 39 39 3 Underlying profit margin % 4.2% 3.9% 1 Underlying revenue and order book include share of joint ventures and associates.
com AR2018 24 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Support Services continued Mayflower Water Treatment Works A new state-of-the-art water treatment works to serve Plymouth and the surrounding area.
In gas, Balfour Beatty delivers network maintenance Balfour Beatty continues to maintain, manage and and asset growth for the largest gas distribution operate major highway and road networks across companies in the UK and Ireland.
The largest contract, M25 Connect Plus, will expandsand renews underground mains, often in continue for another 20 years.
In October, the Group busy and high-impact residential and commercial was awarded a seven year, 103 million contract areas.
Working on long-term contracts, the business byTelford and Wrekin Council for the maintenance manages and delivers work, minimising the impact oflocal highways assets.
During the year, Balfour this essential work has on local communities.
Beatty decided not to re-tender for the Area 10 The gasmarket is in the RIIO-GD1 period until contract in the North-West of England.
During the year the business managed The rail services business won a number of plant two long-term gas contracts which made losses contracts for Network Rail in the year including: in2018.
Leadership changes have been made witharecovery plan put in place.
A seven-year contract worth in excess of 115 million for the supply, operation and The water business is now coming towards the end maintenance of 13 track maintenance of the UK water regulatory cycle AMP6 2015 2020. tampers:and Many water contracts are extended over multiple A four-year contract worth in excess of 40 million AMP periods and the Group has already started for the operation and maintenance of Network toengage on the AMP7 planning cycle.
Rails fleet of track maintenance stoneblowers.
In the year, the gas and water business successfully In February 2019, Transport for London redealt with the Beast from the East storm by tackling appointedBalfour Beatty to deliver the new London burst water mains throughout its areas of operation.
Underground track renewals contract, valued at up In addition the business successfully completed the to220 million over four years.
Balfour Beatty was new Mayflower water treatment facility for South first appointed in 2002, with the contract already West Water.
The Mayflower facility near Roborough, extended on a number of occasions.
The Groups north of Plymouth, replaced the existing Crownhill detailed knowledge and experience of London facility, which dated from the 1950s and had reached Undergrounds infrastructure and systems, as the end of its natural life.
Capable of delivering wellasits commitment to championing innovation, upto90 megalitres of high-quality drinking water wasinstrumental in securing the contract.
perday, the new works will meet the needs of agrowing population.
Underlying transportation revenues were stable at 453 million 2017: 453 million.
The transportation order book increased to 1.9 billion 2017: 1.8 billion, due to a number of contract wins for Network Rail.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25 Infrastructure Investments Following significant disposals in 2017, underlying Total revenue The Infrastructure Investments profit from operations decreased to 97 million business delivered another strong 2017: 116 million, with both pre-disposal operating performance, having continued its profit and profit from disposals lower than the prior year.
Pre-disposals underlying operating profit strategy of optimising value through decreased to 17 million 2017: 30 million as a result the disposal of operational assets, of the prior year disposals, refinancing costs on the Connect Plus M25 asset and write-downs on two whilst also continuing to invest 7% UKinvestment assets, partially offset by overhead innew opportunities.
Underlying profit on disposals decreased to80 million 2017: 86 million.
Net interest income Financial review decreased to 16 million 2017: 24 million as a The Group achieves enhanced returns when resultof the prior year disposals with underlying Infrastructure Investments, Construction Services profitbefore tax at 113 million 2017: 140 million.
and Support Services deliver as one.
There is an Directors valuation inherent advantage in bidding for projects when theInfrastructure Investments business utilises theexpertise of Construction Services and Support 1.15bn Services.
Additionally, the negative working capital generated in the Construction Services business 4 2017: 1.24bn provides opportunity for Infrastructure Investments.
Underlying revenue Los Angeles 571m Automated People Mover LAX 2017: 524m US$4.9 billion project todevelop a 2.25-mile, above-ground airport Statutory revenue transport system connecting passengers with the airline terminals 341m artists impression.
2017: 288m Underlying profit before tax 113m 2017: 140m Statutory profit before tax 111m 2017: 134m F rom continuing operations including share of joint ventures and associates, before non-underlying items.
4 2 017 valuation includes 62 million relating to the 7.5% partial disposal of the Connect Plus M25 asset, as the disposal proceeds hadnot been received at year end.
The proceeds were received on 23 February 2018. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 26 What we have been doing in 2018 continued Infrastructure Investments continued Operational review In September, the Group disposed of its entire 50% In 2018, the Infrastructure Investments business interest in Fife Hospital for 43 million.
Following this added five new projects and disposed of five disposal, the Group only owns one material private projects two full disposals, three partial disposals.
finance initiative PFI healthcare asset.
In January 2018, the business was named preferred In December, the Group sold an 80% interest in bidder on the Automated People Mover project at itsUniversity of Edinburgh student accommodation LosAngeles airport.
Financial close was reached in project for 24 million.
In addition, before year end, June 2018 and Balfour Beatty owns a 27% equity the Group disposed of its Nesbit Palisades private stake inthe project.
rental housing in Alpharetta, Georgia, for cash proceeds of 3 million and there was a partial sale In the private rented and regeneration sector, the ofphase one of the University of Texas, Dallas North American business acquired: a 7.5% stake at student accommodation project, where the Group the Riverchase Landing multifamily housing project reduced its interest from 91% to 10%, generating located in Birmingham, Alabama: a 50% stake at proceeds of 13 million.
theProvidence at Zephyr Ridge project, located inTampa, Florida: a 50% stake in the Ridgeland At 31 December 2018, three projects had not yet 220-unitcommunity project in Jackson, Mississippi: reached financial close 2017: five projects.
and a 15% stake at Southwind, a 306-unit apartment The Infrastructure Investments business continues community located in Memphis, Tennessee.
tosee significant opportunities for future investment Balfour Beatty Communities will perform property in its chosen geographic markets particularly in the management services for the properties, US where the focus is on student accommodation, leveragingits existing capabilities.
multifamily housing and PPP opportunities.
In the In February 2018, the Group made a 5% partial sale UK, the focus is on student accommodation.
inConnect Plus, the company which operates and maintains the M25 orbital motorway, for 42 million.
The Group retains a 15% interest in the Connect PlusM25 asset.
In July, Connect Plus completed a refinancing.
2018 2017 Infrastructure Investments m m 3 Pre-disposals operating profit 17 30 3 Profit on disposals 80 86 3 Profit from operations 97 116 Net interest income from PPP concessions 16 24 3 Profit before tax 113 140 Non-underlying items 2 6 Statutory profit before tax 111 134 3 Before non-underlying items Note 10.
Subordinated debt interest receivable and net interest receivable on PPP financial assets and non-recourse borrowings.
A reconciliation of the Groups performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial performance section.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018
