Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 27 Directors valuation of the investment portfolio Continued success in targeted sectors Overview In the second half of the year, the Group Cash flows for each project are forecast based The Directors valuation reduced soldits interests in Fife Hospital and the on historical and present performance, future by93 million to 1,151 million Nesbit Palisades multifamily housing project, risks and macroeconomic forecasts and 2017: 1,244 million, primarily due to and completed partial sell-downs of its whichfactor in current market assumptions.
187 million being realised from divestments interests in the University of Edinburgh These cash flows are then discounted using in the year 2017: 105 million.
The number student accommodation project and phase different discount rates based on the risk and of projects in the portfolio increased from one of the student accommodation project maturity of individual projects and reflecting 71to 74.
This reflected continued success atthe University of Texas, Dallas.
In total, secondary market transaction experience.
intargeted sectors with five new projects 187 million of proceeds were received As in previous periods, the Directors valuation included in the Directors valuation for the in 2018. may differ significantly from the accounting first time.
book value of investments shown in the Unwind of discount at 96 million financial statements, which are produced The Group invested 58 million 2017: 97 million is a function of moving inaccordance with International Financial 2017: 35 million in new and existing thevaluation date forward by a year with the Reporting Standards rather than using projects.
Cash yield from distributions result that future cash flows are discounted adiscounted cash flow approach.
amounted to 89 million 2017: 53 million by one year less.
Operational performance asthe portfolio continued to generate cash movements resulted in an 18 million Demand for high-quality infrastructure flow to the Group net of investment.
increase in the value of the portfolio assetsin the secondary market continues 2017: 33 million, consisting mainly of toexceed supply and the Group will The business continued its strategy of anexchange rate gain of 36 million on the continueto sell investment assets timed maximising value through recycling equity US portfolio offset by a number of changes tomaximise value to shareholders.
from operationally proven projects, whilst incash flow forecasts, discount rates and preserving interests in strategic projects The Investments portfolio is now more heavily economic assumptions, including in respect thatoffer opportunities to the wider Group.
weighted to North America UK 43%, North of two UK investment assets which were America 57%.
Within the UK, roads is still the In February 2018, the Group received written down in the year.
largest sector despite the partial sales of the 104 million from 12.5% partial sales in The methodology used for the Directors Connect Plus M25 investment, whilst in North Connect Plus, the company which operates valuation is unchanged, producing a valuation America US military housing represents the the M25 orbital motorway, on completion that reflects market value and which therefore majority of the portfolio.
The Investments ofa7.5% sale agreed in December 2017 and changes with movements in the market.
portfolio includes 1 billion of projects that a further 5% sale agreed subsequently in have completed the construction phase and February 2018. are operational.
Movement in value 2017 to 2018 Operational performance Equity Distributions Sales Unwind of New project Gains on gains inc. FX 4 m 2017 invested received proceeds discount wins sales movements 2018 UK 636 34 37 171 48 2 21 491 North America 608 24 52 16 48 7 2 39 660 Total 1,244 58 89 187 96 7 4 18 1,151 4 2 017 valuation includes 62 million relating to the 7.5% partial disposal of the Connect Plus M25 asset, as the disposal proceeds had not been received at year end.
The proceeds were received on 23 February 2018. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 28 Directors valuation of the investment portfolio continued Continued success in targeted sectors continued UK portfolio Portfolio valuation December 2018 In the year, 34 million was invested across Value by sector 4 2018 2017 2018 2017 four projects in the portfolio: Aberdeen Sector No.
projects m m Western Peripheral Route: Irish Primary Care: Roads 13 13 205 290 Welland Bio Power: and the regeneration Healthcare 3 4 109 136 development at East Wick and Sweetwater.
Student accommodation 4 4 43 64 In February 2018, there were partial sales OFTOs 3 3 50 51 of12.5% of the Connect Plus M25 asset, Waste and biomass 4 4 41 57 comprising the completion of a 7.5% sale Other 5 5 43 38 agreed in December 2017 and a further 5% UK total 32 33 491 636 sale agreed subsequently in February 2018, US military housing 21 21 532 497 which generated proceeds of 104 million.
Healthcare and other PPP 4 3 35 28 In September, the Group completed the Student accommodation 7 7 46 49 saleof its entire 50% interest in Fife Hospital Residential housing 10 7 47 34 for acash consideration of 43 million.
North America total 42 38 660 608 In December, the Group sold an 80% Total 74 71 1,151 1,244 interestin its investment in the University of Edinburgh student accommodation project which generated proceeds of 24 million.
Portfolio valuation December 2018 Value by phase In aggregate operational performance 4 2018 2017 2018 2017 movements resulted in a 21 million Phase No.
projects m m reduction in value arising from the net effect Operations 64 56 1,003 1,089 of revised cash flow forecasts and discount Construction 7 10 130 130 rates for certain projects, including in respect Preferred bidder 3 5 18 25 two investment assets which were written Total 74 71 1,151 1,244 down in the year.
Discount rates applied to the UK portfolio Portfolio valuation December 2018 range between 7% and 11.5% depending Value by income type onproject risk and maturity.
projects m m weighted average discount rate for the UK portfolio is 8.5% 2017: 8.5%.
A 1% change Availability based 25 25 414 518 in discount rate would change the value of the Demand operationally proven 2 years 40 33 614 559 UK portfolio by approximately 49 million.
Demand early stage less than 2 years 9 13 123 167 Total 74 71 1,151 1,244 Consistent with other infrastructure funds, Balfour Beattys experience is that there is 4 2 017 valuation includes 62 million relating to the 7.5% partial disposal of the Connect Plus M25 asset, as the disposal proceeds had not been received at year end.
The proceeds were received on 23 February 2018. limited correlation between the discount rates used to value PPP and similar infrastructure investments and long-term interest rates.
In the event that interest rates increase in Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates response to rising inflation, the impact of any UK portfolio increase in discount rates would be mitigated 900 by the positive correlation between the value of the UK portfolio and changes in inflation.
800 704 700 636 580 600 544 500 491 447 400 300 200 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% Discount rate December 2018 December 2017 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors valuation m Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 29 North American portfolio Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates In 2018, the business won five projects: North American portfolio fourinvestments in private rental housing 1,000 portfolios at Birmingham Alabama, Zephyrhills Florida, Ridgeland Mississippi 900 and Memphis Tennessee : and a PPP project to construct and operate the Automated 800 755 People Mover at Los Angeles Airport in California.
700 660 701 Investment of 24 million was made 584 600 duringthe year in two existing and four 608 newprojects: a PPP data centre in Canada: 500 534 astudent accommodation project at Purdue University: and the stakes acquired in the 400 fourprivate rental housing portfolios.
300 In December, the Group completed the saleof its investment in the Nesbit Palisades 200 multifamily housing project in Alpharetta, 100 Georgia generating cash proceeds of 3 million.
In addition, there was a partial 0 saleof the Groups investment in phase one 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% of the University of Texas, Dallas student Discount rate accommodation project which generated December 2018 December 2017 proceeds of 13 million.
Operational performance movements Portfolio investment, divestment and distributions since 2008 resulted in a 39 million increase in the m valueof the portfolio, consisting mainly ofanincrease of 36 million due to 250 exchangerate movements, together withsome revised cash flow forecasts 1250 200 anddiscount rate assumptions for certain projects.
150 750 Discount rates applied to the North 100 Americanportfolio range between 7.5% and10.5%.
The implied weighted average 50 250 discount rate is 8.2% 2017: 8.2% and a1%change in the discount would change 0 thevalue of the North American portfolio -250 byapproximately 86 million.
50 Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed 100 bythe US Government in December 2017 -750 there are provisions to restrict the tax 150 deductibility of interest expense.
The Groups assessment of the provisions is that the -1250 200 restriction will not have a material effect 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 onthe Directors valuation.
Distributions Investment Sales Directors valuation balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 Investment, sales and distributions m Directors valuation m Directors valuation m 30 Building a sustainable business Group-wide initiatives in innovation driving success Balfour Beattys cutting edge Rail Innovation using GPS.
The robot achieved in one Innovation Centre in Derby brings together the Groups nightwhat normally takes two people expertise in systems engineering, computer fournights to complete.
In addition to Balfour Beatty is increasingly harnessing science, robotics, data analytics, electronics, programme benefits, the robot reduces innovation which hasthe potential and electrical and mechanical engineering.
manual handling and people plant interfaces.
todeliverbetter, safer, faster, more The purpose-built centre is adedicated cost-efficient outcomes for customers.
In the US, Balfour Beatty is now using research, development and testing facility.
Bluebeam, a software application which To fully leverage the benefits of innovation, It supports Balfour Beattys contribution to streamlines processes, improves project the sector requires a more dynamic, agile the development of the digital railway for a communication and makes collaboration workforce, skilled in new and emerging more reliable, cost efficient and safe network areality by allowing all users to add digitaltechnologies, and prepared to for all users across the UK and overseas.
mark-ups to the same document in challenge and transform conventional The Innovation Centre is working on the real-time, delivering significant solutions.
Balfour Beatty is responding latest developments in measurements efficienciesfor the customer.
byupskilling its workforce, bringing people systems, predict and prevent technology, As part of the programme to address over withnew skills into the business and advanced digital surveying techniques, 600km of water mains renewals across the embracing new technology to deliver signalling and data science.
Products and London and Thames Valley regions, Balfour theinfrastructure of the future.
software being used at the facility include Beatty has delivered 75% of the water TrueTrak, OmniVision, OmniSurveyor3D, In 2018, Balfour Beatty embedded its mains replacement using trenchless OmniCapture3D, DataMap and AssetView, 25by2025 vision, making a reduction technology.
This enables Londons ageing which all helpto improve the speed, safety inonsiteactivity by 25% by theyear2025 water supply network to be updated and andcostefficiency ofmaintaining the railway coreto its operations.
This involvesremoving made more resilient while minimising without reducing network capacity through complex and repetitive activities from sites disruption to the end customer.
These examples of successful trials for On the M6 Smart Motorway scheme innovative ways of working will inform Using digital tools to deliver between Birmingham and Coventry, BalfourBeattys approach going forward, betteroutcomes BalfourBeatty successfully trialled a mobile ensuring that the services and solutions Balfour Beatty is driving forward new robot for setting out works.
The tiny robot offered to its customers are based on technology and innovative solutions operates by a design being uploaded ontoa proven, cutting-edge technology.
USB memory stick, pre-marking whitelines My Contribution Balfour Beattys Group-wide employee engagement programme established in 2015, My Contribution, enables anyone in Balfour Beatty to take part in Build to Last and personally drive change and improvements.
My Contribution encourages employees tosuggest solutions that could benefit the business by reducing inefficiencies, improving productivity and making Balfour Beatty abetter place to work.
In 2018, business leaders and Balfour Beattys My Contribution champions received over 1,000 ideas, whichhave the potential to deliver 5 million in benefits.
A digital solution is being rolled out for MyContribution with the launch of a new streamlined and interactive process on asocialmedia platform.
Drones Drone technology is usedacross projects toreduce the amount oftimespent on site, providing a safer and efficient way of working.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31 Virtual reality Our state-of-the-art 3D, virtual reality room helps our engineers tovisualise and design aproject before work commences on site.
Worldwide innovation The scheme includes the manufacture of bathroom Balfour Beatty shares ideas and expertise from pods in Italy complete with finishes, fixtures and projects across its international business to create fittings, and the manufacture in China of storeyinnovative solutions for customers.
high panels for the glazed faade.
A range of other innovative techniques are also being used, including The most significant phase of Balfour Beattys surveys undertaken by drones to generate digital transformation, Integrated Digital Project accurate, real-time data to assist with the efficiency Delivery IDPD, was launched in 2018 by of construction.
The benefits of the offsite Gammon.
IDPD combines the power of Level 2 approach have been in delivering the first phases BIM and Modular integrated Construction MiC efficiently, and in ensuring that construction can techniques.
Gammon recently completed Global proceed as safely and quickly as possible in spite Switch Singapores data centre project withover ofthe lack of onsite storage space.
70% of the project delivered via Design for Manufacture and Assembly DfMA.
Smarter ways of working collaborating In India, Balfour Beattys design team of 60 withsupply chain, industry and academia technical experts in civil engineering, mechanical Balfour Beatty understands the value of and electrical works and visual design, continued collaboratingto innovate.
The Group works toprovide value-adding services across the closelywith a range ofindustry bodies and Groupsbusiness.
Specific expertise includes leadingacademic institutions, sharing knowledge theproduction of detailed 3D and 4D andlearningand developing new ideas.
visualisationsto maintain programme Continued active involvement with industry groups, deliveryandcustomer satisfaction.
such as the UK client-led Infrastructure Industry For the 219 million ElecLink contract, Balfour Innovation Platform i3P, provides a platform Beatty is installing a 1GW interconnector through forBalfour Beatty to influence the industry and the Channel Tunnel, connecting France and the share knowledge with peers.
There are over 8,000 brackets and 55km of firstinternational member of this industry group, monorail being installed in a live rail environment.
whichis focused on improving productivity in To automate the installation process, Balfour Beatty theinfrastructure industry through sharing internal has developed a bespoke engineering works train.
and external industry solutions and collaboration This has 36 automated arms which simultaneously onthe digital platform.
drill 144 holes for 36 brackets, enabling the In 2018, Balfour Beatty and industry partners installation of 36 brackets in 30 minutes, and an including members of the strategic design installed monorail length of 2km in a five-hour shift.
consultant partnership, secured funding from This flying factory and automation has reduced i3Pfor the development of SafetiBase, at a the activity onsite by at least 50%.
SafetiBase is an online platform Balfour Beattys delivery of the Madison, a which tracksand analyses project risks and health 53-storey, 187m high residential tower in Canary and safety issues.
SafetiBase won an industry Wharf in London has embraced the use of modular Health &Safety award in 2018 and is now ready and offsite manufacturing techniques.
The tower tobedeployed ona range of pilot sites.
islocated in a busy area with a small footprint.
com AR2018 32 Building a sustainable business continued Group-wide initiatives in innovation driving success continued Balfour Beatty and Leeds Beckett University have teamed up on a new project co-funded by Innovate UK and Balfour Beatty to the value of c. 900,000.
The project aims to address key challenges faced by the construction industry in adopting BIM systems by creating automated tools which will be available as a software plug-in to BIM models.
Known as the Auto-BIM plug-in, it will be tested over two years using Balfour Beattys existing database of projects and on new developments.
On the M25, Balfour Beatty is piloting the latestremote sensing techniques to improve maintenance efficiency.
In 2018, this included the deployment of sensors enabling remote monitoring of drainage systems and analytics to better assess the risk of flooding and enable timely maintenance.
The Site of the Future Balfour Beattys work on creating the Site of theFuture will streamline what the Group does todayandensure that it continues to deliver for itscustomers in the future.
There are two areas of focus: Digitising and automating processes andmaking the data available to people to inform decision-making, improve risk analysis andmanage projects.
This will minimise time spentmanually collecting and processing data, freeing upproject resource to focus on safe andprofitable delivery.
Innovating and ensuring that the whole ofBalfourBeatty benefits from the solutions thatarebeing developed across the business.
Balfour Beatty has created a physical test area at Thurnscoe, South Yorkshire, where the principles ofFail Fast, Learn Quickly and Deploy Rapidly canbe exercised, so the Group is always at theforefrontof the latest technology.
Significant progress was made in 2018 in implementing the IT infrastructure required to handle the large volume of data created.
The focus will nowshift to developing the interfaces and reporting Madison Tower dashboards to capture and leverage this rich seam Utilising the latest ofinformation.
Pilots are being run on live projects technologiesto ensure a totest and develop these new processes.
safeand efficient completion forthisresidential building in Conclusion London artists impression.
For an industry that has been slow in the pasttoadopt innovation, there are considerable opportunitiesto capitalise on the insight, control andefficiencies that next-generation construction technologies andmore streamlined ways of workingoffer.
Through its25 by 2025 vision, BalfourBeatty hasseta clear trajectory to transformthe future ofconstruction.
This will helptheGroup future-proofits business and delivereffectively for its customers.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33 Committed to creating a safe workplace Balfour Beattys industry-leading commitment Lost Time Injury Rate Health and safety totreating health like safety continues to focus LTIR oneliminating occupational disease and ill health.
IJVs Safe is one of the four Build to Last goals and Balfour Beatty is a founding member and co- 0.29 alltheGroups operations must ensure the health chairsthe UK-wide Health in Construction andsafety of everyone who comes into contact LeadershipGroup HCLG bringing together withtheiractivities.
Zero Harm is Balfour Beattys 0.22 0.21 industryleaders, customers andcontractors witha vision, where no injury, ill health or incident is focuson: healthy by design: dust: musculoskeletal causedby its work activities.
All operations are 0.17 0.15 disorders: and mental health.
Balfour Beatty is charged withconstantly improving performance, anactive supporter of the Mates inMind charity sharing learning and best practice.
forUKconstruction workers and hascommitted The Zero Harm objective is supported by torollingout the Mates in Mind programme.
theGroupsHealth Safety Environment and By theendof 2018, Balfour Beatty Sustainability HSES strategy and risk-based  health first aiders prioritised action plans.
These are formed around  andsupport to over 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 12key areas: communicating the vision: leadership:  and supply chain.
learning andsharing: co-ordinated governance: Balfour Beatty was also the first organisation supplychain engagement: health and safety Accident Frequency Rate torollout the British Occupational Society bydesign: improving management systems and AFR qualification control of health risks in construction processes: training andcompetence: behavioural excl.
IJVs inthe UK and now has over 270 qualified safety: innovation, recognition and reward: 0.19 occupationalhealth champions.
The business continued to win awards for its Group initiatives linked to the Zero Harm calendar 0.14 0.14 healthand safety performance.
For example areproactive and evidence-based.
These include 0.12 inthe UK: focused campaigns and Group-wide stand downs onkey topics.
In 2018, these included particular 0.09 the Silo Maintenance Facility project received the focuson four fatal risk areas: falls: electrocution: Sellafield Ltd CEO award for safety performance caught in between: and struck by.
Other topics the Gas Distribution Strategic Partnership contract included: vehiclesand driver risk: slips and trips: won the Institute of Gas Engineers & Managers winter working:environmental nuisance: waste: IGEM annual safety award handarmvibration: manual handling: mental the Smart Motorways Programme project health:andwellbeing.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 wonHighways England project of the year Many parts of Balfour Beattys business for innovation.
reachedmillions of hours incident free during Major Injury Rate In the US: 2018, demonstrating ZeroHarm is achievable.
IJVs The Groups leading andlagging key performance Balfour Beattys rail business won a fourth 0.08 indicatorstrended positively, withcontinued strong consecutive platinum award for excellent performance intheUK.
Leading indicators include safetyperformance from the National Railroad 0.06 butare not limited to supervisor development, Construction and Maintenance Association NRC.
behavioural safety programme roll-out, recorded 0.05 0.05 Employee survey results across the Group rated executive site visits, and engagement via 0.04 consistently highly on health and safety questions, observations.
The Groups Lost Time Injury Rate astrong indicator of engagement.
LTIR improved from 0.17 to 0.15 excluding the Groups international joint ventures IJVs.
Balfour Beatty continues to learn and share with itsinternational joint venture Gammon which is Despite all the in-house actions taken to eliminate anactive member of the Groups HSES forum.
ormitigate risk, two subcontractor colleagues Gammon has led on some innovative work with stilllosttheir lives due to third-party incursions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 robotics and musculoskeletal risk.
On health and intoBalfour Beatty work sites see page 69 for safety, Gammon follows many of Balfour Beattys more information.
standards and initiatives and continues to raise Central to sustainable delivery of Zero Harm is thebarcompared to its local competitors.
BalfourBeattys Making Safety Personal MSP 2018 also saw the launch of the UK-wide HSES programme, based around four simple golden Supply Chain Forum working in partnership to achieve rules.
In 2016, the focus was engagement through Zero Harm.
Supply chain led working groups covered workforce observations, 2017 saw the roll-out topics including: elimination of hand arm vibration: oftheMSP 1 foundation programme for everyone plant safety: communications: and health.
onmaking safe choices and the MSP 4 leadership programme.
Module MSP 2 aimed at supervisors In 2019, the Group will continue its relentless andinfluencing behaviour was rolled out in 2018. focusonhealth and safety within the business In 2018, the milestone of 25,000 MSP andworkingwith the supply chain, customers  was reached.
com AR2018 34 Building a sustainable business continued Investing in talent across the Group Employee engagement Engagement People index % Employee engagement remains a key focus 65% tosupport and enhance business performance.
The Build to Last transformation programme 60% 58% The Groups aim is to make Balfour Beatty a great continues to be the foundation of the Group place to work by enabling continuous, two-way peopleplan.
In 2018, the Groups central focus has listening across the organisation.
been on talent development and enabling leadership capability, maintaining high employee engagement For engagement surveys, standard technology and continuing to stand out as a leading employer isused in the UK and US to reach employees and inthe sectors in which it operates.
provide immediate feedback on results ensuring complete transparency to build trust in the survey.
Leadership and talent development Balfour Beatty is proud to have achieved a Group Investing in future leadership capability, retaining response rate of 72% in its December 2018 survey talentand building a strong leadership pipeline outperforming many comparable organisations.
To support these priorities, 2016 2017 2018 regular people reviews are executed throughout A key measure of the Build to Last Expert goal, theGroup as an opportunity to identify talent, theemployee engagement index, increased from Annualised attrition  and technical development 58%in2016 to 60% in November 2017, and rate UK % interventions and create a strong succession mostrecentlyto 65% in December 2018.
13% Particular highlights from the December 2018 12% An example of investing in talent is the Future engagement survey across the Group include: Leadersprogramme which ran with its second Balfour Beatty genuinely cares about cohort, bringing together senior leader talent from havingapositive impact on the environment across the UK business.
65% of the Future Leaders andlocalcommunities 75% positive from the firstcohort have been promoted into moresenior leadership roles.
The Aspiring Leaders I attend meetings where I can share programme was launched in the UK for managers myviews 70% positive who have thepotential to move into senior positions.
my manager motivates me to givemy best 68%positive The Executive Leader Development Programme ELDP was launched in the US Construction there are opportunities to develop my skills 2016 2017 2018 businessto further strengthen leadership capabilities.
and or knowledge in Balfour Beatty 19% The ELDP is expected to launch further cohorts and increasevs.
Female employees the extent to which the programme can be adopted The strong increases in the employee response rate across the workforce % across the Group will be considered.
and engagement index score are particularly pleasing.
19% 18% In the US there are three well established mid-level 17% Emerging talent programmes which act as feeder development Balfour Beatty has continued to invest in its activities for the ELDP.
These will be reviewed in 2019 EmergingTalent aligned with its interest in supporting to create a single programme based on best practice The 5% Club.
In 2018, the UK recruited 94 graduates, across the different Balfour Beatty businesses.
The proportion Across the Group, the wider development ofthe UK workforce in earn and learn positions propositionembraces blended learning which spans hasincreased from 3.1% in 2014, to 5.6% at the formal training programmes, e-learning, webinars, endof2018.
At 31 December 2018 the UK supports inrole development, coaching and mentoring.
322 apprentices, 237 graduates, 161 trainees and19yearout industrial placement students The US Construction business deployed a broad onarangeof schemes.
2016 2017 2018 collection of classroom training, delivered internally, focused on entry, mid, and executive-level During the year in the UK, Balfour Beattys Science, management and leadership skills development.
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM Additionally, more than 400 on-demand online ambassadors increased to 280 and qualified trainingvideos and training resources were Fairness, Inclusion and Respect FIR ambassadors accessibleto all employees through their Learning increased to 32 raising awareness of Equality, Management System to support their professional Diversity and Inclusion EDI internally and with development as managers and leaders.
Continued strong investment and focus on people In the US Balfour Beatty hired 115 college interns andcapability development in the UK resulted in forthe summer of 2018 focusing on the best and thedelivery of 3,764 training days and 9,103 users brightest with potential to become full-time engineers completed a total of 29,492 e-learning courses.
Interns are provided with formal training whilst being assigned to active projects, In the UK, Balfour Beatty has also refreshed complementing their practical learning experience.
itsemployer brand and strengthened its wider resourcing strategy to support the attraction ofkeytalent into the organisation.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 35 Diversity and inclusion Balfour Beatty served as a gold sponsor for What makes Balfour Beatty unique is the expertise theGroundbreaking Women in Construction andcapability of its people.
Attracting and retaining conference in San Francisco in 2018, sending a thebest talent from all backgrounds is key to building large, representative group from all levels to develop ahigh-performance culture.
Leo Quinn is the Boardleadership skills, make industry connections and level sponsor for Diversity and Inclusion D&I and strengthen leadership skills development.
regularly promotes this internally and externally, In the UK, Balfour Beatty helps its supply chain mostrecently with his paper Breaking the Deadlock.
toimprove workforce diversity and workplace He is supported by a steering committee that sets inclusivity by sharing best practice at industry forums.
thedirection for Diversity and inclusion and a crossIt collaborates with stakeholders across the sector functional working party that leads and co-ordinates oninitiatives such as the FIR programme to develop diversity initiatives.
% of graduates, arange of resources for use in the supply chain to apprentices and trainees Balfour Beattys three-year UK D&I action plan improve equality, diversity and inclusion practice at in UK workforce focuses on Communication, Culture, Creating alltiers.
Since 2013, Balfour Beattys UK businesses Opportunities, Communities Supply Chain and have spent more than 8bn with SMEs with the 5.6% 5.3% Governance and has been cascaded into local majority going to small and micro businesses and is business plans with bespoke targets, helping proud to have focused spend on Social Enterprises: 4.3% tobuilda strong culture of fairness, inclusion and women and veteran owned businesses based in respectacross the organisation.
Affinity networks, themost deprived neighbourhoods in the UK.
with over 850 members, are sponsored by Strategic partnerships and sponsorships are in amemberof the senior leadership team.
placewith Amos Bursary, Business Disability Forum, The Groups efforts have been recognised externally Leonard Cheshire Disability Society, Princes Trust, in the UK, including being shortlisted fortheCECA: Stonewall and WISE.
In 2018 Balfour Beatty UK Inspiring Change in the Community Award, Inspire: achieved the Governments Disability Confident Most Inspiring Contractor Award, workingmums.
Level2 Employer status to support the employment co. uk: Career Progression Top Employer Award and of disabled people and those with health conditions.
2016 2017 2018 British Ex-Forces in Business: Employer of the Year In addition, Balfour Beatty is a co-founder of the Award.
Balfour Beatty employees have also been Mates in Mind mental health programme with over recognised in the European WICE Women in 500 Mental Health First Aiders based at sites and Construction & Engineering Awards and the offices and over 8,000 employees having completed FinancialTimes Outstanding Top 100.
Start the Conversation awareness sessions.
The US Construction business is embarking In June 2018, Balfour Beatty re-signed the Armed onitsfive-year strategic plan that will initially Forces Covenant demonstrating its advocacy for focusonthree areas of opportunity and growth: theArmed Forces, employing veterans and gender: race ethnicity: and veterans.
The first two supporting reservists.
years ofthestrategic Diversity & Inclusion Plan havemeasurable objectives against leadership Summary commitments, talent acquisition, talent The Groups Build to Last transformation programme development, and employee engagement.
continues to improve business performance and contributes to the creation of a great place to work: Balfour Beatty expanded its Connecting Women both for current and prospective employees.
initiative across the US in 2018.
Designed to empower female employees through fostering The Group continues its commitment to build a alliance and networking, the programme facilitates workforce of industry-leading people by offering diversity and inclusion, creates a culture of peer astrong Leadership Talent Development offering, support and inspiration to attract and retain fostering employee engagement and by providing women, and provides education and personal exciting career opportunities for its people through the future pipeline of work.
At 31 December 2018 Male Female Total % Male % Female Board 7 2 9 77.8 22.2 1 Senior management 87 27 114 76.3 23.7 Directors of subsidiaries 202 34 236 85.6 14.4 Group 15,852 3,622 19,474 81.4 18.6 1 S enior Functional and Strategic Business Unit leaders.
com AR2018 36 Building a sustainable business continued Ensuring integrity within the business Speak Up Speak Up Helpline cases Business Integrity Balfour Beatty encourages the reporting of any Number concerns about unethical conduct.
Trends and, 245 Balfour Beattys Business Integrity programme is 238 236 whereappropriate, details of cases raised are aprinciples and behaviours-based programme, to reported to the Board and each business unit.
ensure that the culture within the business enables Whilst action is taken in respect of the immediate people to make the right choices and empowers issues raised, this data also informs the longer them to speak up where others have not.
termstrategic direction of theBusiness The core of the Business Integrity programme Integrity programme.
remainsthe Balfour Beatty Code of Conduct, a The number of cases reported in 2018 remained web-based code which has been designed to be largely consistent with 2017 with the number accessed fromany device with an internet connection ofcases per 1,000 employees increasing slightly www.
This enables asaresult of a drop in the number of employees.
site-based personnel to access the Code, along with 2016 2017 2018 Ensuring all in-scope cases are investigated remains customers and partners.
This is supported by the an important priority to support a change in Suppliers Code of Conduct which sets out Balfour behaviourand to maintain the trust and support Beattys commitment to work with those companies Speak Up Helpline cases ofthose who raise concerns.
This continued in whose standards are consistent with its own.
excluding HR grievances 2018with 100% ofin-scope cases investigated.
Number The programme underwent significant change 231 during2016 17 in order to better utilise technology 228 224 Modern slavery and to further embed the programme within the Modern slavery is a brutal form of organised business.
Changes such as an assessment for the crimeinwhich people are treated as commodities Code of Conduct, bite-sized learning modules and and exploited for criminal gain.
The majority of presentations across the business have seen an thesepeople are inthe supply chains of legitimate increase in engagement as demonstrated by the industries.
Balfour Beatty is committed to working results of the June 2018 UK employees survey: inthe business and its supply chain toensure an approach is taken totackling labourexploitation 95% of respondents understand what is andeliminating these practices.
The Companys expectedof them under the Code of Conduct: fullModern Slavery Act transparency 84% are encouraged to do the right thing statementfor2018 can be accessed here: atwork:and 2016 2017 2018 www.
com services modern-slavery 82% felt they can raise issues and challenge unethical, dishonest or unacceptable behaviour.
The EU General Data Protection Regulation Cases per 1,000 employees GDPR This is very encouraging but there is more to Balfour Beatty The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR dotoensure all employees know what is required Number andthe UK Data Protection Act 2018, came into ofthem and that they can report their concerns.
GDPR significantly increases For agreater connection withthebusinesses, Balfour fines for breaches, requires breaches to be notified Beatty launched a network of Business Integrity tothe regulator, provides enhanced data subject advisers in 2017.
Advisers assist by communicating rights andmandates certain risk assessments Business Integrity messages and initiatives, andrecordkeeping requirements.
supporting investigations and are local pointsof contact for issues and concerns.
In 2019, the focus Ahead of the above legislative changes, Balfour Beatty will be upon continued reinforcement of the Business appointed a Group Data Protection Officer who has led Integrity messageconsistently across the Group: a GDPR readiness programme.
Under this programme impact assessments have been carried out on the managers are critical to the success of the Groups high risk IT systems, supplier processors programme and the Business Integrity function andcorporate websites and initial risk assessments willwork withthem to ensure they nurture and 2016 2017 2018 ofjoint venture and customer project processing encourage integrity within their businesses.
Balfour Beattys data protection policies and the Code of Conduct assessment, which tests procedures have been updated and a GDPR steering Cases per 1,000 employees knowledge in 12 key risk areas, has proven board introduced.
An automated process for global benchmark tobeamore effective and engaging method conducting data protection impact assessments and Number oftraining and will be re-issued in 2019. data mapping has been implemented, key processor 14 14 to reinforce individual responsibility, all terms and privacy notices updated, corporate training thosewhocomplete the assessment will on data protection principles delivered and data storage berequiredtoprovide a declaration about and retention practices renewed.
theirownbehaviour inregard to the Code The focus for 2019 will be to build on this programme ofConductand associated processes.
and further embed best practices into the Groups the Groups approach to due diligence has been business processes and broader culture whilst preparing integratedwithin commercial processes and the for anticipated future changes to e-privacy laws.
services of third parties who specialise in collating data are being used.
This has made processes more effective and allowed betterassessment A t the time of print, the global benchmark statistic for 2018 was not available.
The full chart including the 2018 statistic can be found at: ofsuppliers and partners.
com businessintegrity 2016 2017 2018 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 Managing tax risk Being a responsible taxpayer There are a number of factors that affect theGroups tax risk and these arise both internally and externally.
Balfour Beatty recognises that paying taxesarising Balfour Beattys ability to control these factors varies from its activities is an importantpart of how it and its internal taxteam works to minimise these contributes to the societies which it helps to build.
For example: The Group makes a major contribution to the tax revenues of governments in the numerous territories new and developing tax legislation is monitored in which it operates.
For example, the Groups tax andwhere it is relevant Balfour Beatty participates contribution extends significantly beyondcorporation in consultations issued by the tax authorities.
tax and the collection ofsubstantial amounts of When new or changed legislation is announced, income tax and includes the payment of significant the impact on the Group is assessed and employersocial security contributions.
activemeasures are taken to ensure there areadequate processes in place to comply The Groups tax strategy, approved by the withany change Board, istosustainably minimise taxcostwhilst complying with the law.
In doingso, itensures tax risks in relation to compliance and reporting itactsin accordance with BalfourBeattys ethics, aremanaged by meeting regularly with professional values andBusinessIntegrity programme.
advisers, industry groups and the tax authorities toboth keep abreast of changes in theseareas and The Group aims to meet all legal requirements, to seek information onnew systems and software filingall appropriate taxreturnsand making tax risk in relation to tax in general is managed by payments accuratelyand on time.
theinternal tax team and if a position is uncertain The Groups tax strategy applies to all territories the Group may obtain third-party advice in order inwhich it does business.
togain clarity or support for a particular stance or approach.
Tax governance Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, procedures Interaction with tax authorities andcontrols in place which areoverseen by the Balfour Beattys approach to its tax affairs ChiefFinancial Officer.
issupported by an open, honest and positive working relationship with the tax authorities, with regular A dedicated internal tax team, led by the Group dialogue.
Should any dispute arise with regard to the Headof Tax, is responsible for the implementation interpretation andapplication of tax law, the Group ofthe Groups tax strategy and supporting tax iscommittedto addressing the matter promptlyand policies.
Members of thetax team are highly resolving it in an open andconstructive manner.
experienced with appropriate professional qualifications andexperience which reflect theresponsibilities required for their roles.
Tax risk appetite The Group manages its tax affairs in a proactive manner that seeks to maximise shareholder value.
The Group does not enterinto artificial arrangements that lack commercial purpose in order to secure ataxadvantage.
The aim is to ensure full compliance with all statutory obligations andas a consequence attempt to minimise risk wherever possible.
com AR2018 38 Building a sustainable business continued Using Our Blueprint to drive economic, environmental and social outcomes Many local communities struggle with competing Global trends relevant to the Group priorities on the public purse and are more likely tofocus on value rather than just cost, allowing Global construction has significant economic, contractors to support economic, social and environmental and social impacts.
These impacts environmental outcomes when tendering for work.
Balfour Beatty This is particularly important in the UK where welcomes the opportunity to make a positive socialvalue community benefits is are now difference to peoples lives.
The construction, renovation and demolition As cities grow and populations increase, there ofbuildings account for 40% of developed willbe increased demand for infrastructure that 1 countries solid waste streams willencroach on green spaces and impact on Buildings and construction together account biodiversity.
Implementing biodiversity net gain for36% of global energy use and 39% of principles on projects over time will help protect 2  emissions and enhancebiodiversity.
The Group is well On a global scale, buildings account for around positionedto leave a lasting positive impact.
40% of the worlds consumption of natural 3 resources and 25% of the worlds water use.
Our Blueprint These trends have been recognised in developing Reducing carbon emissions in the built environment OurBlueprint, the Groups sustainability strategy.
iswidely recognised as the least expensive method It sets outhow Balfour Beatty will deliver long-term ofabating the adverse impacts of climate change.
economic, social and environmental outcomes for Furthermore, there are significant opportunities itsemployees, customers, society and shareholders.
toreduce embodied carbon, materials and waste It isfully aligned with the Companys wider Build to byadopting circular economy approaches.
Last goals, outlined on pages 12 and 13, and seeks In socio-economic terms, the built environment tofurther embed sustainability throughout Balfour hassignificant direct and indirect impacts on Beattys operations byproviding a robust framework.
socialwellbeing and the livelihoods and prosperity The strategy is based on the three pillars of Profitable ofcommunities and individuals.
The construction Markets economic, Environmental Limits sector is a major employer, with a diverse and environmental and Healthy Communities social.
complexsupply chain, positively impacting local It issupported by clear guidance on metrics through economies through jobs andtraining.
The Groups sustainability provides homes, education, healthcare, transportation performance in relation to its Our Blueprint strategy is and  for communities.
For details on Our Blueprint, please visit www.
com ourblueprint The Groups long-term materiality assessment hasidentified the following scenarios and trends: Other themes such as resource efficiency ordeveloping skills and talent have developed The availability and cost of raw materials and intospecific programmes such as the 25 by waterwill be a challenge as populations grow 2025vision and The 5% Club.
This will impact the way Balfour Beatty designs and builds assets, Governance manages waste, sources materials and conserves Balfour Beatty has a solid governance process water resources, whilealso presenting new thatunderpins everything it does to ensure that commercial opportunities such as water and thebusiness is being managed and run properly, wastewatertreatment technologies.
The Safety and Sustainability The skills gap in key sectors such as construction Committee seepage 78 reviews the Groups iswell-documented and getting worse.
There is sustainability strategy and monitors progress disparity between the number of skilled workers againstOur Blueprint.
This ensures governance needed and the number of young professionals andaccountability for delivery and performance entering the industry.
At the same time there atBoard level.
isanincreasing trend towards digitisation, Each strategic business unit is responsible for automationand off-site manufacturing.
developing its own sustainability action plan that The physical and economic impacts of climate communicates its priorities, sets out its targets, change are likely to increase over time.
This is anddescribes the arrangements it is putting place likelyto increase investment in climate change inorder to deliver them.
adaptation by society and encourage more innovative ways of managing existing assets.
Internal audit teams review performance against OurBlueprint and the external auditor is engaged Increasing costs of fossil fuel energy and the price byBalfour Beatty to provide limited assurance over of carbon will encourage Balfour Beatty and its selected greenhouse gas performance data for customers toseek low-carbon opportunities to annualreporting purposes.
reduce costs, and increase security of supply.
1 U N Environment, Assessing Global Resource Use, 2017, p. 65 http: www.
org sites default files styles 83 117 visuel document public pdfpreview .
png?itok MnHp9HFE 2 U N Environment, Towards a zero-emission, efficient, and resilient buildings and construction sector, Global Status Report 2017, page 6 https: www.
org sites default files UNEP%20188 GABC en%20%28web%29.
pdf 3 U N Environment, Assessing Global Resource Use, 2017, p. 64.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 39 Balfour Beattys key policies on Code of Conduct, Green infrastructure Environmental limits Sustainability, Health and safety, Supply chain projects in progress PRand marketing, Risk management, Quality, Optimising environmental performance forms Environmental, Social Value and Information in2018 akeycomponent of Our Blueprint and is essential for security are available on the Groups website.
driving efficiencies and winning work.
Balfour Beatty is committed to minimising its impact on climate These requirements are passed onto Balfour Beattys change and mitigating the business risks that climate supply chainthrough Our Supplier Code of Conduct 2.99bn change presents.
At an operational level the Group and its Sustainable Procurement Policy, recognising has continued to take steps to reduce Scope 1 and 2 thecriticalrole that the supply chain plays.
Installed Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions and its reliance Approximately 80% of the Groups business units onfossil fuels through the use of technology and solar photovoltaics arecertified to the environmental management algorithms that have been developed in-house standard ISO 14001:2014 and assessed against the toassist decision making.
Balfour Beatty has sustainable procurement standard ISO 20400:2017. alsocontinuedtouse data to monitor and drive Both are auditedby third parties and management sustainability performance.
32MW reviews areconducted to review the findings.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Profitable markets Buildings created with The Group has seen an increase in carbon emissionsintensity in 2018 compared to 2017 from certification in 2018 Sustainability is an integral part of modern 22.1 tonnes of CO2 equivalent CO2e m revenue infrastructure projects public sector customers to24.5 tonnes ofCO2e m revenue.
This is despite require conformance to standards such as BREEAM, absolute scope 1and 2 emissions dropping from LEED, BEAM, Green Mark, and CEEQUAL 242,107 tonnes to 224,430 tonnes over the same andtheseare important to planning authorities.
Although efforts to manage energy and In 2018, the total value of projects in progress that fueland reduce associated GHG emissions have related to green infrastructure was 2.99 billion.
continued, the increase in intensity is due to a This value relates to the contractual value of the decrease in revenue.
This result is also a clear projects some of which may have started before the indicator that project activity is decoupled from reporting year.
The Groups certifications in this area revenue.
Since establishing the baseline in 2010, and its technicalknowledge improve the whole-life tonnes of CO2e m revenue have dropped by 41% performance of customers built assets.
from 41.5 tonnes of CO2e m revenue to 24.5 tonnes Increasingly, customers are scoring against of CO2e m revenue.
The Groups total CO2e figure UK 8 sustainability criteria as in the case of the 2 billion for Scope 1 and 2 emissions has dropped by 133,553 US 9 Scape Infrastructure frameworks to which Balfour tonnes of CO2e 37% from 357,983 tonnes of CO2e Gammon 1 Beatty was appointed as sole contractor in 2018. to 224,430 tonnes of CO2e over the same period.
10%of the total score for these two frameworks As evidenced, the Group has made significant wasfocused onsocial value, i. e. the economic, progress in reducing energy and fuel consumption environmental andsocial benefits the framework Tonnes of Scope 1 & 2 and associated Scope 1 and 2 emissions, which offered tolocal communities.
CO e m revenue 2 isleading to reduced operating costs and therefore The green economy represents a multi-billion pound improved value to customers and shareholders.
growth opportunity over the coming decades in areas Reduced consumption also limits the Groups such as renewable energy and nuclear, flood defence exposure to transitional market risks from 24.5 schemes, inter-connectors, sustainable transport energyandfuel price fluctuations.
infrastructure, and energy efficient buildings.
The requirements for reducing Scope 1 and 2 Manycustomers are exploring new solutions Reduction in tonnes of emissions are well understood and controlled.
todriveefficiencies and be more sustainable.
In 2018, the Group has continued to: improve the Scope 1 & 2 CO e m 2 Utility network providers for instance are interested fuelefficiency of its fleet: optimise the sizing of revenue against insmarter installation and maintenance solutions generators and the power profile of projects: improve thatcause lessdisruption and reduce digging, vehicle the energy efficiency of site cabins: undertake energy 2010 baseline movements and materials usage.
They are particularly efficiency improvements to properties: and optimise interested in solutions that minimise leaks.
Implementing these measures inthe UK alone has resulted in 40,778 MWh In the US, Balfour Beattys rooftop solar programme 41% energyreduction or 11,308 tonnes of CO2e.
for military housing exceeded the Department ofDefenses Renewable Energy Goal of 25% in Gammon Construction, the Groups joint venture 2018, by generating 30% ofenergy from renewable inHong Kong, has started to develop Zero Waste sources.
To date the programme has installed 32MW Plans for all new projects to focus attention, planning, of solar photovoltaics across 12 military installations.
and commitment on actions to achieve theaspiration The US Construction business completed nine LEED of Zero Waste in all its forms including wasted energy.
Gammon Construction, the Groups Renewed efforts have included smartmetering joint venture inHong Kong, is in the process of andcontrols, and more energy efficient site offices.
completing 21 buildings, all of which have provisional Gammon has also been promoting earlier connection LEED or equivalent certificates in place.
to mains power supply to avoiddiesel generator usewith government and customers atits  conference.
com AR2018 40 Building a sustainable business continued Using Our Blueprint to drive economic, environmental and social outcomes continued Balfour Beattys 2020 goal is to achieve a Balfour Beattys Scope 1 and 2 CO e emissions 2 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 50%reduction in its Scope 1and2 emissions include emissions from assets that areotherwise by geography permillionrevenue against a 2010 baseline.
notreferred to across the rest of thefinancial The Groupsperformance to date illustrates it is statements such as energy provided bylandlords ontrack to meetthis target.
The Group is working orcustomers that Balfour Beatty does notpay for.
towards a 60% reduction stretch target per million The Group has determined and reported the revenue by2025.
Furthermore, a science-based emissions it is responsible for within this target for2030isbeing considered by the Safety boundaryand does not believe there are any andSustainability Committee.
The Group uses the UK As illustrated, the UK accounts for 41% ofthe Governments carbon conversion factors that GroupsScope 1 and 2 emissions, the US 23% wereupdated in 2018 tocalculate its emissions andthe Rest of the World 36%.
intoequivalent tonnes ofcarbon dioxide CO e 2 andthe IEAs November 2018setof international Gammon Construction is certified to ISO 14064-1 conversion factors for electricity Scope 2 except international standard for quantifying and reporting forthe UK where theUKGovernments conversion UK 41% greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Its Scope 1 and 2 US 23% factors were usedastheyare more up to date.
GHG emissions are independently verified by SGS.
Datasets for 2014to2017 relating toHeery have Gammon 36% beenremovedasitwas sold in October 2017.
GHG reporting and assurance Balfour Beattys GHG emissions are reported PwC was engaged to undertake an independent Reduction in Scope 1 inaccordance with the UK Governments limited assurance engagement, reporting to & 2 emissions in 2018 GHGreporting requirements covering all seven BalfourBeatty plc, using the assurance standards UNFCCC Kyoto gases.
The Group uses the ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the GHG data operational controlapproach under the GHG Protocol thathave been highlighted in this report with CorporateAccounting and Reporting Standard as thesymbol.
Their full statement is available at: 7.3% at31 December 2018 to report emissions from its www.
com IIA operations around the world.
However, Balfour Beatty The level of assurance provided for limited assurance has chosen to report only using the location-based is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance approach and not the market-based approach.
In order to reach their opinion, PwC Even though Balfour Beatty does procure significant performed a range of testing procedures over the amounts of renewable electricity, the average DEFRA GHG data.
A summary of the work they performed and IEA location-based conversion factors have been isincluded within their assurance opinion.
used for carbon reporting purposes in order not to detract from reducing energy intensive operations.
Non-financial performance information, GHG Balfour Beattys energy consumption in MWh is quantification in particular, is subject to more shown on page 41 to allow readers to make more inherentlimitations than financial information.
informed comparisons of the Groups energy use.
The limited assurance statement should be read incontext of thereportingcriteria as set out in Although Balfour Beattys Scope 1 and 2 CO e 2 BalfourBeattys Global Sustainability Reporting emissions dropped by 7.3% 17,677 tonnes Guidanceavailable at:www.
com overtheperiod from 2017 to 2018, the number of  MWhofenergy dropped by 3.1% 25,790 MWh.
This difference can be explained by the fact that The guidance outlines the non-financial different fuels have different carbon intensities, KPIsmeasured by the Group, their definitions, withsome fuels attracting greater carbon conversion andevidence requirements.
Furthermore, the MWh table does not include fugitive emissions.
The Energy Usetable illustrates that there has been a 10% reduction in gas oil red diesel use and a 23% reduction in electricity use.
There has been a 12%increase in 5% biodiesel blend use.
Scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use.
The full description of Balfour Beattys definitions can be found in its reporting guidance at https: balfourbeatty.
Included within PwCs limited assurance scope.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 Waste intensity In 2018, Balfour Beatty switched to purchasing all of Tonnes of waste At present, there are limitations on the its waterin England and Scotland from one provider per m revenue completenessof Balfour Beattys waste data, toenhance data collection.
370 makinglike-for-like comparisons of its annual data 330 Since improving its approach to monitoring water the difficult.
Comparing waste data year-on-year will Group has seen a decrease in its water intensity in the alsovary depending on the type of projects the 250 areas of its business where water is monitored from Groupundertakes and the stage that the projects 3 3 162m m revenue in 2017 to 160m m revenue.
Balfour Beatty is working with its operatingbusinesses to improve this data.
Supply chain and collaboration In 2018, over 2,258,033 tonnes of waste that Balfour Beatty recognises the critical role of its BalfourBeatty produced were avoided from landfill.
supplychain in helping to make it a more sustainable This equates to 97% ofthe total amount of waste that business.
The Group has continued to improve its Balfour Beatty produced in 2018, but does not include approach to sustainable procurement in 2018 by 2016 2017 2018 materials thatwere reused directly without entering working with its supply chain to deliver social value the waste stream.
Although these figures are outcomes and agree improvement plans across key impressive, the Group is working on circular economy categories.
Much of the Groups work is undertaken Cubic metres of water solutions to reduce waste in the first place and has collaboratively.
For instance, in 2018 Balfour Beatty per m revenue a2025 visionto reduce onsite activities by 25%.
worked with A-Plant and El Bjorn to develop and 165 162 This willmean a greater shift towards Design for replace all electric heaters in drying rooms in the UK 160 Manufactureand Assembly DfMA techniques which with purpose-built dehumidifiers that are 33% more are inherently more resource efficient.
As illustrated, energy efficient than conventional electric radiators.
Balfour Beatty has steadily reduced the tonnes Since becoming the first company to implement and ofwaste it produced per million revenue over the be assessed against ISO 20400:2017 the international lastthree years.
This includes bothmaterials sent standard forsustainable procurement in 2017 for tolandfill and materials that arerecycled.
itsUK operations, Balfour Beatty has continued toimprove its processes to drive sustainability On the East Wick and Sweetwater project on the bytargeting  and risks.
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, the project team saved 500 vehicle movements by reusing 3,500 Innovation through value engineering continues to be tonnes of materials onsite.
The team planed akey focus: Balfour Beattys collaborative UK Strategic 2016 2017 2018 outtarmac surface layers to produce aggregate Design Consultants partnership with Atkins, Mott thatcouldbe reused, saving 175 lorry loads MacDonald and WSP has been a success and allowed ofdeliveriesand over 100k.
partners to deliver more value and win more quality business by working together with common goals.
Water intensity Balfour Beatty is a funding Partner and Gold Member Water intensity is an optional indicator in Balfour of the Supply Chain Sustainability School, which aims Beattys sustainability strategy.
It is measured in to improve sustainability performance throughout cubicmetres per million revenue.
Depending on theconstruction and infrastructure supply chains.
thegeography in which the Group operates, water As aresult, Balfour Beatty has held a number of can be a sparse or abundant commodity.
Almost all engagement events and workshops with its supply ofits operating businesses in the UK and Hong Kong chain partners improving their knowledge on reported on water use.
Neither the US Construction sustainability.
The number of these partners business nor the US Investments business elected registered with the schoolis now over 2,607, tomonitor water use as an optional indicator.
com AR2018 42 Building a sustainable business continued Using Our Blueprint to drive economic, environmental and social outcomes continued Climate disclosure Healthy communities Employee engagement The Group is committed to addressing climate on sustainability change risk and reducing the lifetime emissions of In many markets the ability to demonstrate the theassets it builds, as evidenced by its performance socialvalue of the Groups operations in economic in the global evaluation standard, the Climate terms is vital.
To benefit local areas, the Group Disclosure Project CDP, where a B rating was useslocal supply chain partners, employees and 75% achieved in 2018, compared to the industry materials wherever possible, and invests in future averagerating of C. talent through apprenticeship schemes and work placement opportunities.
Number of UK sites The annual rating is based on CDPs evaluation of the Groups strategy, goals and actual emissions reductions, assessed against CCS Involved Balfour Beattys community investment as well as transparency and verification of reported data.
programme in the UK was established in 2015 It assesses the completeness and quality of Balfour andfocuses on three key areas where the Beattys measurement and management of carbon Groupcanadd value to its customers and the 85 footprint, climate change strategy, risk management local community: processes and outcomes.
The scores purpose is to local employment and skills provide a summary of the extent to which companies CCS average score supporting local businesses have answered these questions in a structured format.
Balfour Beattys B rating indicates that its team community engagement through charitable hasprovided comprehensive information in fundraising, volunteering and mentoring.
40.55 Wherever the Group operates it seeks to integrate Although the Group has identified a number within the neighbourhood, supporting the local ofclimate change related risks and opportunities, community, its businesses and its workforce.
noneofthese pose a principal risk to the business.
Involved gives Balfour Beatty the opportunity The risks identified include: toworkwithin a framework whereby the results ofitsinterventions are captured and the benefit climate change increasing the intensity and tosociety shared with its customers and other frequencyof extreme weather events, including interested parties.
flooding and high winds which could impact sitesnegatively All staff have the opportunity to volunteer up large fluctuation in energy costs totwodays per year to give something back tolocalcommunities.
The December 2018 sustainability performance failing to keep engagementsurvey showed that 75% of pace with demands theGroupsUK and USemployees thought sudden tightening of environmental legislation thatBalfourBeatty genuinelycares about toimprove air quality and or reduce CO emissions.
2 havingapositive impact on theenvironment The opportunities include: andlocalcommunities.
The focus areas for thecharitable work has been on: energy savings supporting skills in infrastructure increased demand for climate change supporting people and families with mitigationmeasures by customers healthandwellbeing improved reputation and ability to win workthroughour capability.
regenerating local communities inspiring tomorrows workforce Environmental compliance supporting Affinity Networks In 2018, two environmental incidents resulted supporting national charity partners.
inenforcement action and fines totalling 3,328.
In the UK Balfour Beatty has continued to support theConsiderate Constructors Scheme CCS.
The CCS is a non-profit-making, independent organisation founded in 1997 by the construction industry to improve its image.
In 2018, 85 of theGroups UKsiteswere assessed against thescheme, with an average score of 40.55 outof50against an industry average of 36.27.
Of thesesites, 68% exceeded Balfour Beattys internal target score of 40.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 43 Community investment through In California, Balfour Beatty hosted its annual Golf  Classic that raised more than US$145,000 for the The Balfour Beatty Building Better Futures Sharefest 2018 Workday.
Nearly 150 people attended CharitableTrust was formed in 2009 to help the most the tournament and set an event fundraising record disadvantaged young people in society.
Through a mix tosponsor six Workday sites, help send nearly 250 of employee fundraising and financial support provided disadvantaged youths to camp, and provide four by the Company, the Trust currently supports three college scholarships to local deserving students.
charities: Barnardos, Coram and The Princes Trust.
The annual Sharefest event mobilises thousands In 2018, employees raised over 40,256 through ofvolunteers throughout Los Angeles County Building Better Futures.
The Company matched this tocomplete tangible work projects that change with an additional contribution and donated a total of thequality of life for its residents.
Since 2013, the Trust has raised 201,416 to in 2013, Balfour Beattys Golf Classic outing has support Barnardos, helping over 1,340 young people.
raised more than US$600,000 to support annual Since 2010, the Trust has contributed over 490,000 Workday activities.
toCoram, funding vital services for children and For Make-A-Wish Foundation of Georgia, the Balfour young people.
Beatty team in Atlanta raised US$51,000 at itsannual The Group has worked closely with the Princes Trust Golf Tournament for Wishes.
The proceeds donated since the beginning of the partnership and has raised fund wishes for children in Georgia who havebeen over 1.35 million forthe charity.
In the UK, a further afflicted with life-threatening illnesses.
161,825.90 was raised by employees for charitable In Texas, Balfour Beatty employees volunteered purposes.
Across the Groups operations, employees theirtime to mentor high school students as part volunteered 11,854 hours for charitable causes and ofthe ACE Mentor of Dallas programme.
The donated 58,978 in-kind contributions to charities.
hands-on workshop taught students how to develop This hasbrought multiple social value benefits to construction milestone schedules and site logistics thecommunities in which Balfour Beatty operates.
plans based on an active project in Dallas, Texas.
The US construction business contributed The dynamic mentoring programme provides overUS$288,000 to charitable causes in 2018. students with adeeper understanding of industry Some ofthe organisations receiving donations were: career opportunities, while providing insight into thetoolsand techniques used by Balfour Beatty Bridges to Prosperity expertsin the field.
American Heart Association In 2018, Gammon Construction, its staff and Make-A-Wish Foundation partnerscontributed to over 90 activities and Oregon Harbor of Hope community events in Hong Kong and provided DC Students Construction Trades Foundation overHK$2.6 million incharity donations.
Ronald McDonald House 2018 marked the 60th anniversary of Gammon.
Sharefest Celebrations were launched with a Run for 60 Runfor Charity event which was sponsored by Urban Ministry Center.
The run was also organised to raise money In coordination with Bridges to Prosperity B2P, for the Construction Charity Fund which provides a10-member team of Balfour Beatty employees support to families of victims in fatal construction fromacross the US celebrated the completion of a accidents.
More than 100 Gammon staff members, 131-metre suspended footbridge in the isolated rural family members and business partners joined the Espiritu Santo community near Cochabamba, Bolivia.
event, running the Gammon Construction China Planned for months and constructed by Balfour Coast Fullor Half Marathons or 10km races to Beattys volunteer team over the course of two raiseover HK$1.6 million.
weeks, the new footbridge is helping support B2Ps One of the strongest typhoons in Hong Kongs dedication to building footbridges over impassible history, Mangkhut, ripped through the territory rivers so that isolated communities canaccess on16 September.
The storm tore off roofs, healthcare, education and economic opportunities.
brokewindows, and caused extensive flooding.
The build teams fundraising efforts received The aftermath saw thousands of trees blocking significant support ofover US$107,000 from hundreds of roads and traffic was paralysed.
colleagues, friends, family andBalfour Beatty Gammons project teams deployed workers and business partners to fund the trip.
equipment to clear obstructions near sites on public roads and in adjacent buildings and neighbourhoods.
Gammon was presented with an Appreciation Certificate by the Hong Kong Governments HomeAffairs Bureau and received many commendations fromDistrict Councils.
