Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 Viability statement investments disposal programme: and or In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The Group successfully exceeded its Phase negative changes to working capital.
UKCorporate Governance Code 2016, One Build to Last targets of 200 million theDirectors have assessed the Groups cashin: 100 million cost out in 2016.
The Directors also assessed a perfect storm long-term prospects and its viability over Since then, the Group has continued to scenario by combining multiple scenarios and athree-year period to 31 December 2021. exploitopportunities to re-engineer processes, modelling the resulting downside to stress-test reducing cost whilst maintaining or improving the Groups viability if these cash flows were Assessing the Groups long-term efficiencies, culminating in all earnings based to immediately and simultaneously come prospects businesses achieving the Phase Two target of under severe threat.
This scenario is aimed The Group operates primarily in the UK, US industry standard margins in the second half totest the viability of the Group if it was to and Hong Kong, specialising in multiple facets of2018.
It remains critical that the Build to experience a catastrophic failure and to of the construction and services industry.
Lastprinciples are maintained to drive future allowthe Directors to assess the The Group also maintains an Investments success, although success is also dependent mitigationsavailable to avoid this.
portfolio which provides a strong underpin on the Groups ability to selectively win new In assessing the Groups viability under these tothe Groups balance sheet.
contracts which will be partly impacted by severe but plausible scenarios including in the political changes, particularly in the UK and The Group has many elements necessary instance of a perfect storm, the Directors the US.
forgreater future business success expertise have also considered the Groups projected in technology and innovation, strong customer The Directors have assessed the Groups cash position which excludes cash that is relationships and a talented workforce.
viability in conjunction with its current notimmediately available to the Group, The Group seeks to build on these strong positionas well as its projections of its various bankfacilities and their maturity profile and foundations with continued investment into debt facilities and associated covenants.
covenants, the borrowing powers allowed technological advances, to not only ensure that These financial projections are based on the under the Companys Articles of Association projects are delivered on time and as efficiently Groups Three Year Plan, which has been built and the fact that the Groups PPP investments as possible whilst maintaining the upmost on a bottom-up basis with a Group overlay comprise reasonably realisable securities focus on safety, but also to remain market which provides a more top-down view to which can be sold to meet funding alignto the Groups strategic objectives.
leaders in the way construction is conducted requirements if necessary.
These projections indicate that the projected and to push the boundaries of innovation in headroom, provided by the Groups net cash It is unlikely, but not impossible, that the linewith achieving industry-leading margins.
position and under the debt facilities currently crystallisation of a single risk would test the in place, are adequate to support the Group future viability of the Group: however it is Assessing the Groups viability over the next three years, whilst still enabling possible to construct scenarios where either The Directors have assessed the Groups the Group to repay its 148 million debt falling multiple occurrences of the same risk, or viability over a three-year period and consider due in the next three years.
In testing the single occurrences of different principal risks, this to be appropriate because this is the headroom available under the key sensitivities could put pressure on the Groups ability to period aligned to the current order book modelled, these expiring debt facilities have meet its financial covenants.
The Directors andforwhich there is a good visibility of been assumed to be fully repaid and will not have considered the strength of the thepipeline of potential new projects.
bereplaced with another form of debt.
mitigations available and whether these are This periodalso allows greater certainty over In thethree-year period, the Group is also sufficient to avoid a catastrophic outcome the forecasting assumptions used in labour notprojecting to drawdown on its revolving tothe Groups viability and believe that and material pricing, skills and availability.
In the credit facility of 400 million.
This facility thereare sufficient mitigations immediately longer term, there is also significant political expires inDecember 2020 but for the available to minimise this risk.
There is inherently limited visibility purposes oftesting viability, it is assumed of contract bidding opportunities beyond Based on the assessment undertaken thatan equivalent facility is available in 2021. thethree-year period, and the accuracy of tostress-test the Groups viability against anyforecasting exercise is also impeded The Groups projections have been stressseverebut plausible scenarios, and taking byuncertainties around the costs involved tested against key sensitivities which could intoaccount the strength of mitigations indelivering contracts.
Consequently, the materialise as a result of crystallisation of one thatare immediately available to the Group, Groupperforms its medium-term planning or a combination of the Groups principal risks theDirectors have concluded that there is over three years.
with the aim of stress-testing the Groups areasonable expectation that the Group will future viability against severe but plausible beable to continue in operation and meet its The Directors and the Executive Risk Steering scenarios.
These scenarios include: liabilities as they fall due over the three-year Group continue to monitor the principal risks period until 31 December 2021. facing the Group, including those that would failure to manage effectively the uncertainties threaten the execution of its strategy, its caused by Britains exit fromthe EU Our 2018 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to67, business model, future performance, solvency was approved by the Board on12 March 2019. an inability to collect recoverable amounts and liquidity.
As part of assessing the Groups an operating event that damages the Groups future viability, the Directors have considered reputation and results in significant penalty these principal risks and the mitigations available to the Group.
These principal risks more onerous payment terms demanded and the consequent impact these might have from suppliers leading to a reduction in on theGroup as well as mitigations that are creditor payment days Philip Harrison inplace are detailed on pages 58 to 66. failure to realise further projected benefits Chief Financial Officer from Build to Last.
In their assessment of the Groups viability, the Directors have also considered the need The above scenarios result in a reduction in to be successful in focusing on the Groups revenue: a reduction in margin: an increase in strategic goals of Lean, Expert, Trusted and operating costs: a slowdown in the Groups Safe detailed on pages 12 to 13. balfourbeatty.
