8 Market review Infrastructure spend continues to grow: Buildings market stable UK and US infrastructure spend Construction Services continuesupwards trajectory, backed bystrong government support.
Key Growth Flat Contraction Medium-term market outlook Infrastructure Buildings UK US Hong Kong UK The infrastructure market outlook is positive, underpinned by government expenditure and key programmes Heathrow, Nuclear New Build, HS2 and Highways Englands programmes.
Overall, the Government has pledged to spend over 600 billion on infrastructure in the next 10 years.
Buildings markets are likely to remain flat in the medium term.
2019 isforecast to see a downturn in activity as Brexit uncertainty peaks, but subsequent years are likely to see a recovery in the market.
US Federal initiatives, state-level funding and an active P3 market arelikely to contribute to a growing opportunity in Balfour Beattys USinfrastructure markets.
The buildings market is forecast to remain flat, but specific opportunities will remain.
State-level education bonds in particular arelikely to drive strong school building spend.
Hong Kong Gammon continues to deliver a strong pipeline of infrastructure andconstruction projects, benefiting from high public and private sector demand.
15 see Construction Services I nfrastructure and Projects Authority, National Infrastructure Image: Balfour Beatty VINCI has been awarded two major design andConstruction Pipeline Autumn 2018 update.
and build contracts for High Speed 2 artists impression.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 9 Support Services Infrastructure Investments Medium-term market outlook Medium-term opportunity levels Power Gas Water Highways Rail PPP PFI Other UK UK Power US With the RIIO-T1 period coming to an end in 2019: the market islikelyto remain stable until RIIO-T2 ramps up after 2020.
UK Gas The student accommodation market in the UK continues to provide a The RIIO-GD1 cycle runs until 2021 and there are unlikely significant number of high-quality investment opportunities for Balfour tobeanysignificant shifts in the market before this point.
Beatty, as well as an asset class that allows the Group to leverage its longstanding track record of Student Accommodation construction.
Water Stable market with incremental changes as AMP7 begins to ramp US up.
This cycle is expected to result in significant growth in water The US student accommodation, multifamily housing and P3 markets infrastructure spend in the medium term, particularly in Capex, continue to offer significant and attractive investment opportunities offering significant opportunities for Balfour Beatty.
and there are a number of major infrastructure projects in the pipeline.
Highways 25 see Infrastructure Investments Highways England continues to forecast increases in expenditure overthe remainder of the RIS1 period, with a step-change increase infunding for the RIS 2 period.
Rail 2019 is forecast to see a reduced level of activity before CP6 beginstoramp up.
From 2020 activity on CP6 and HS2 will begin toincrease, providing very significant opportunities for growth.
23 see Support Services Image: M25 Connect Plus Services CPS is a consortium comprising Balfour Beatty, Atkins and Egis Road Operation UK which operates and Image: The University of Edinburgh the design, build, finance maintains the M25 network on behalf of Connect Plus.
andmaintenance of 1,180 student study bedrooms.
