10 Business model How we create value The environment we operate in How our Group works together External market We develop and structure Favourable working capital from our The Group is well positioned in finance to enable our construction business funds itschosen markets, all ofwhich customers to achieve their investment projects, which generate represent large and growing infrastructure ambitions.
a return in their own right.
infrastructure opportunities with We also invest directly realsynergies between Construction ininfrastructure assets, Services, Support Services and particularly when there are Infrastructure Investments.
opportunities to manage theproject on completion.
UK, US and Hong Kong infrastructure spend continuesupwards trajectory, Infrastructure backed bystrong government support.
Investments Balfour Beatty will continue to maintain 25 a disciplined andfocused approach to bidding for contracts.
8 See Market review Internal performance Since the start of Build to Last in 2015, Balfour Beatty has simplified andrefocused its operations, embedded new governance, reduced operating expenses by almost 40% and invested steadily ininnovation, Construction Support capability and leadership.
As well as Services Services the delivery of all Build to Last targets, culminating in industry standard 15 23 margins, every metric for a culture which is Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe shows significant continuous improvement.
To ensure these improvements are sustainable, theyareembedded within consistent systems and processes which address risk and provide management with transparency and control.
Represents c. 79% of our Our services activities revenue and is responsible design, upgrade, manage and As a result Balfour Beatty has for design, engineering maintain critical infrastructure.
theculture and scalable platform andconstruction across the They complement both todrive profitable managed growth most complex infrastructure Construction Services and forthe benefit of all stakeholders.
12 See Our priorities Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11 Why our customers choose us Output for stakeholders Build to Last priorities Investors The Build to Last transformation programme is designed to deliver Reliable return on investment through market-leading returns for all stakeholders, fromaGroup which is shareprice growth and dividends.
Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe.
Customers 12 Read more Value to customers by delivering industryleading infrastructure and buildings, and providing high-quality support services.
World-class track record Balfour Beatty is an industry-leading player with a long history Employees ofsuccessfully delivering transformative infrastructure projects.
A safe, rewarding and inspiring place for employees and subcontractors to work People and knowledge anddevelop their careers.
Engineering expertise and project management capabilities enable ustodeliver industry-leading infrastructure to customers.
Supply chain 34 Read more Partnership opportunities for suppliers andsubcontractors allow them to contribute to, andshare in, our success.
Financial strength We have a strong balance sheet and sufficient cash to fund our Community operationsand ensure our customers feel confident that we are Improving the quality of lives by enhancing hereforthe long term.
infrastructure, and providing local jobs, 51 Read more apprenticeships and other societal benefits from projects being delivered.
Whole asset-life capabilities Social and environmental leadership Expertise across the full life of an asset finance, design, build, operate and Leadership in commitment to social maintain enables the highest quality and best value infrastructure solutions.
andenvironmental sustainability: BalfourBeattywas the first company Supply chain relationships  against Fostering strong relationships with both suppliers and key subcontractors, ISO20400, theinternational standard and delivering value to customers through disciplined contracting processes.
12 Read more Innovation Leveraging the latest developments in digital andtechnology togain acompetitive edge.
30 Read more Values Our values are Talk Positively, Collaborate Relentlessly and Encourage Constantly: together they are the building blocks of our culture.
Business integrity We help people who work for Balfour Beatty to make the right choices andensure they can speak up freely.
