Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Digital platform real estate Efficiency gains listing platform optimisation project Lean In 2018, Bank of Georgia launched project Lean, which In Corporate Investment Banking, we aim to halve the aims to transform and optimise the operations in three time needed to issue a corporate loan to 15 days.
We areas of the Bank: service centres, processes and functions.
have introduced an evaluation system, whereby by the end of each loan processing cycle the involved parties are Transformation of the service centres has been carried out encouraged to voice their feedback to each other.
We have with the purpose of increasing the number of customers rearranged the roles and responsibilities within the teams, served and products sold to them.
Currently, all of the aiming to ultimately eliminate duplicated and scattered flagship branches of the Bank have been transformed to tasks.
The launch of the new scheme in a trial mode become more productive and efficient in their services.
We revealed that the process cycle time can potentially set up a queue management system to improve customer be reduced by 50%, and the number of errors by 30%.
experience, increase client satisfaction and retention rates CIB will start applying the new process in 2019. by offering speedier and higher quality services.
As a result, 98% of the clients entering a transformed service In addition to transforming the processes in order to centre are served, while the figure before the optimisation achieve a more efficient utilisation of resources, we have used to be 83%.
We introduced frequently revised shorteralso optimised the functions in several departments and term key performance indicators for our bankers, which plan to work with others in the nearest future.
We have are aimed at boosting sales by increasing the number of improved the efficiency of task flows in the operations clients served and products sold per banker ratios.
As a support unit and streamlined the processes in the cash result, the sales in transformed service centres increased and securities settlements unit.
We have also reshuffled by 20%.
Client satisfaction also saw a positive trend the functions in corporate lending, so that the corporate having reached 90%, in line with our future target of 95%.
bankers focus increasingly more on sales and relationships with clients.
Moreover, we freed SOLO branches from We have optimised the way we process mortgage back office functions, which we instead centralised in values, rent bestimates, tailored recommendations and Within the Bank of Georgia Group, we created a unique applications in Retail Banking and loan applications in the headquarters of the Bank.
We are in the process of suggestions based on customer demands, a sophisticated Real Estate Listing Platform that is aimed at addressing Corporate Investment Banking, and plan to transform the implementing the same changes in SME banking and in mortgage calculator and advanced premium services the demands of all stakeholders in the local market.
processes in other segments as well.
In order to efficiently Wealth Management.
In 2019, we plan to identify all the among many other advantages.
Moreover, we integrated The platform helps real estate owners, potential buyers, utilise the time and human resources needed to process back office operations throughout Bank of Georgia that artificial intelligence systems to assist our operation sellers, renters, real estate agents and other stakeholders mortgage applications and reduce the number of errors to can be transferred to and centralised in the headquarters.
team in managing the listings keeping them accurate, share all essential information on properties, their values, a minimum, we introduced standard operating procedures well crafted and genuine.
The customers can access and checklists.
As a result, we decreased the number of banking products, apply for mortgages and check credit errors by 50%.
In cooperation with the Groups Real Estate Listing limits live while browsing for the desired real estate.
The universal and highly flexible online platform will transform Platform, the Bank aims to boost its mortgage portfolio In addition to applying new procedures, we also updated the way these stakeholders interact and make real-estateby gaining access to and serving a new clientle, and the flow of application processing, which now includes related decisions in Georgia.
simultaneously offering value-added services to real a Time to Yes concept and allows us to inform clients of estate developers and agencies.
Eventually, it is envisaged the outcome of their application within an hour from its The platform offers a rich, most comprehensive and that the Groups Real Estate Listing Platform will take us submission.
Overall, our goal was to decrease the amount reliable real estate database, including the properties to a completely new stage on the local real estate market of time needed to process a mortgage application from 7.5 that are exclusively on this platform and cannot be and will enable the Bank to become much more than just days to only 3 days.
Currently, this number stands found elsewhere.
In addition to the plentiful options, a financial partner to our clients.
the stakeholders also enjoy bestimate real estate 40 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 41
