The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Business Model Structure and Principal Activity Position at the year end The Company is an investment trust with a premium listing on the At 31 October 2018, the portfolio contained 186 2017:195 London Stock Exchange and a listing on the New Zealand Stock individual investments excluding those held at nil value, with the Exchange and its principal activity is portfolio investment.
Investment largest single investment accounting for 1.97% 2017: 1.81% of total trusts, like unit trusts and OEICs, are pooled investment vehicles investments and the top 25 holdings totalling 33.83% 2017: which allow shareholders exposure to a diversified range of assets 30.20% of total investments.
There was one holding of an through a single investment, thus spreading, although not eliminating, investment company in the portfolio 2017: nil.
There were no investment risk.
The Company invests in large, publicly-listed derivatives held in the portfolio 2017: nil.
Net gearing was 2.4% companies throughout the world that offer attractive capital and 2017: 2.3%.
The Company employs Janus Henderson the Manager to manage actively the Companys Management assets in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The Company qualifies as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF inaccordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Investment Objectives Directive AIFMD.
The Company aims over the long term to achieve capital growth in excess of the FTSE World Index and annual dividend growth greater The Company has appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited than inflation, as defined by the UK Retail Prices Index RPI, by HIFL to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM investing in companies listed throughout the world.
inaccordance with an agreement which was effective from 22 July 2014 and is terminable on six months notice.
HIFL delegates investment management services to Henderson Global Investors Investment Policy Limited, which acts as Manager.
Both entities are authorised and The following investment ranges apply: regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
References toJanus Henderson and the Manager within this report refer to the Equities: 80% to 100% services provided by bothentities.
Debt securities and cash investments: 0% to 20% Investments trusts, collective funds and derivatives: 0% to 15% The fund management team is led by Alex Crooke, who has been inplace since 2003.
He is assisted by David Smith, Tim Stevenson To achieve an appropriate spread of investment risk the portfolio is see page 7, Ian Warmerdam, Junichi Inoue, Michael Kerley, Charlie broadly diversified by geography, sector and company.
The Manager Awdry and Nicholas Cowley.
has the flexibility to invest in any geographic region and any sector with no set limits on individual country or sector exposures and, Janus Henderson and its subsidiaries provide accounting, company therefore, the make-up and weighting of the portfolio may differ secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the materially from the FTSE World Index.
administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of Janus Henderson, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Wendy King The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up, value-based investment FCIS acts as Company Secretary on behalf of the Corporate process to identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
to cash generation and dividends.
The Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers investment activity.
Management Fee The Company can, but normally does not, invest up to 15% of its From 1 July 2016 the management fee is equal tothe aggregate of gross assets in any other investment companies including listed 0.45% per annum of the first 750 million and 0.40% per annum on investment trusts.
the excess over 750 million of the value of the net assets on the last day of the quarter immediately preceding the quarter in respect of which the calculation is made.
For the calendar year 2017, the Derivatives management fee calculated for the four quarters of 2017 was subject The Company may use financial instruments known as derivatives to a cap of 843,685 per quarter.
for the purpose of efficient portfolio management while maintaining alevel of risk consistent with the risk profile of the Company.
Investing Gearing The Bankers Investment Trust PLC sets out to be an attractive and The Company can borrow to make additional investments with the straightforward long-term investment vehicle for private investors.
aim of achieving a return that is greater than the cost of the Aswell as investing directly, shares can be purchased through various borrowing.
The Company can borrow up to 20% of net assets at dealing platforms and held in share plans, ISAs or pensions.
Links thetime of draw down.
tosome of these dealing platforms can be found on our website, www.
