Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued This section sets out the policies we have in place to meet We value the views of our employees.
We consult The Banks Employee compensation package includes the responsibilities towards our employees, the ways in with them regularly and have implemented feedback the following benefits: which these policies have been implemented, and the aims systems, such as regular employee satisfaction surveys, maternity leave compensation paid to 282 employees of the policies achieved, over the course of 2018.
Bank which ensure that opinions of our employees are taken in 2018 : into account when making decisions which are likely to of Georgias HCM department oversees these policies health insurance for our employees and their family affect their interests.
Employee feedback also helps to in coordination with the Board of Directors and ensures members: improve our customer-focused approach.
In 2018, by relevant updates according to organisational, strategic financial aid in case of marriage, child birth or adoption, the Supervisory Boards initiative, the Bank introduced or systemic changes.
employee death, death of family members, illness Employee Voice on Board event, nurturing a culture of of family members, employee illness in particular sharing, feedback, transparency, equal opportunities, Examples of some of our HR policies and procedures cases when the insurance package does not cover appreciation, trust and respect.
The first meeting was include, but are not limited to: the expenses: held on 20 September 2018.
It was facilitated by the employee planning and recruiting: flexible days off in addition to those defined by Supervisory Board Vice-chairman Ms. Hanna Loikkanen staff administration: Labour Code of Georgia: and and Chairman Mr. Neil Janin and 18 employees from the compensation and benefits: special rates on banking products and services.
Banks leadership pool participated in the meeting.
The a code of conduct for employees: meeting overview was shared with employees and the employee development and training: The Bank supports gender diversity and monitors a Board.
The next meeting is scheduled for Spring 2019. human rights: fair balance in its workforce.
Please follow the link to grievances: the Hampton-Alexander review: https: assets.
Following the Barrett Organisational Values assessment retrenchment: and service.
uk government uploads system uploads last year, in 2018, we prepared our employee engagement anti-nepotism.
attachment data file 764520  in cooperation with Korn Ferry representative review-report-nov18.
pdf office in Ukraine and created a holistic view of the cultural The Banks HCM department works closely with HR factors in the performance indicators.
Using Korn Ferrys managers and executives from our subsidiaries in order Engaged Performance to ensure proper implementation of the main principles Framework in 2019 we will have and the provision of necessary support in all HRbetter insights regarding the current state and the future In 2018, Bank of Georgias Tree of Life Foundation related matters.
initiatives on employee engagement, inclusion and other financed a social enterprise Green Gift, whose goal issues related to employee productivity.
is to manufacture and promote products made We recognise the importance of observing human rights of recycled paper.
The enterprise cooperates with and are committed to implementing socially responsible In order to ensure pay is competitive, the Bank a number of companies to collect used paper, process business practices.
Our Human Rights Policy establishes monitors employee pay satisfaction via labour market it and manufacture useful and eco-friendly products.
priorities and puts control procedures in place to provide compensation surveys in the financial sector.
The results With the grant from Bank of Georgia, Green Gift equal opportunities and prevent discrimination or of the 2018 survey confirmed that the Bank remains aims to strengthen its resources, both in human harassment on any grounds, including disability.
Human Rights Policy applies to all employees and includes procedures in relation to employment processes including Employee matters recruitment procedures and procedures governing the A key factor to our success is a cohesive and professional continuity of employment of employees who become team, capable of accomplishing the Groups objectives.
disabled during the course of their employment, training We are committed to attracting and identifying the and development.
best professionals, caring and planning for their needs, investing in their development and fostering their We are committed to employee engagement.
that all employees at all levels of the business are aware of our Group is important to us and we strive to provide The Human Capital Management HCM department our employees with a continuous flow of information, and the management system it implements play a vital which includes but is not limited to information about our role in managing our most valuable asset our employees.
corporate culture, the Groups strategy and performance, The HCM department develops Human Resource HR risks relating to its performance, such as financial and policies and procedures which determine key principles, economic factors, and our policies and procedures.
We areas, approaches and methods that are crucial for provide information in a number of ways, including via building HCM systems for all our businesses.
managers, presentations, new employees onboarding, intranet, email and regular town hall and off-site meetings.
80 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 81 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued In 2014-2015, Bank of Georgia launched a Leadership The Banks mentoring programme is part of front office Employee relations office Directors Development Executive Coaching programme.
Every new employee is provided with regular In 2017, the Banks Human Capital department started Headcount an individual approach towards developing leadership advice, guidance and practical instructions from an Leaders Partnership services as a key point of contact for skills.
The programme continued to run successfully appointed mentor, who later also evaluates a new managers regarding all matters related to HR processes.
2016 7 1 6 throughout 2018 and further expanded to lower leadership employees performance.
Through this programme In 2018, we enhanced this practice by introducing an 2017 8 1 7 levels, having benefited its participants with a personally we aim to provide individual support to our employees Employee Relations Office to provide such services to 9 2018 9 2 7 tailored development experience.
Employees involved in achieving their professional goals.
The office contributes in the programme gained greater awareness of their to the employee voice and to the culture of feedback leadership strengths and opportunities for future growth.
In 2017, the Bank launched an online Learning and respect.
The office aims at supporting employees Senior managers Based on its previous years experience, the Bank regularly Management System LMS to offer its employees development through interactive communication and Headcount updates and improves its Leadership Development an easy and comfortable access to corporate learning consulting, and maintaining their satisfaction and System together with the 360 degree feedback process.
On average 250 unique users are engagement during their employment at Bank of Georgia.
2016 30 4 26 The last update of Leadership Competency Models was participating in various programmes daily.
LMS currently 2017 30 6 24 delivered for 2018 360 Feedback.
offers more than 70 distance and blended courses for Talent attraction 2018 27 4 23 27 professional development, various blogs, translated Our recruitment policy and relevant control procedures The Bank highly values the talent of its employees and articles and videos about important topics.
ensure an unbiased hiring process that provides equal provides various talent retention activities engaging them employment opportunities for all candidates.
However, through leadership development and various professional The Bank has updated the onboarding programme, All employees internal candidates have a priority when filling vacant certification programmes.
The Bank creates different which is a special welcoming event for the employees Headcount positions, especially in situations where there are vacancies at all levels.
It is an orientation programme, where development opportunities for employees in terms of in top and middle management.
Thus, in 2018, 191 Group 2016 6,431 4,295 2,136 information about the organisational culture, the Banks career and personal growth.
Internal promotions are part employees 102 women and 89 men were promoted to values and benefits for employees are delivered and 2017 7,045 4,707 2,338 of the talent attraction and retention system and create managerial positions.
Participants are also informed about the 4,907 2,509 a basis for employee loyalty and retention.
The Bank also 7,416 2018 7,416 Banks social responsibilities, career opportunities, offers competitive remuneration and benefit packages for In order to attract young talent, we actively partner learning, personal and professional development.
its employees and supports work-life balance by providing with leading Georgian business schools and universities, Female Male additional paid days off, in addition to those in the Labour participate in job fairs and run extensive internship Code of Georgia.
The Bank encourages engagement and programmes aimed at the development of young dedication of its talented employees with awards made professionals.
Since 2012, the Bank runs regular internship to the Best Employee and Team of the Year.
Employees headcount by age programmes in its special format and constantly develops Bank of Georgia it.
The program attracts promising graduates and The Bank has developed an extensive training programme provides them with the opportunity to participate in 215 for front office employees in order to provide them with professional trainings.
Interns are directly coached by 3,271 relevant skills such as: effective communication and the Banks executives and middle managers.
1,784 building strong and valuable client relationships.
In-house 5,828 431 client-centric sales programme for Express and Retail Training and development 127 Business Banking employees has been developed by To manage our employees in a way that best supports internal learning experience and a team of trainers.
The our business strategy, we seek to help them contribute to goal is to enhance their conversational sales skills and business performance through personal and professional help them develop mutually beneficial relationships with BNB development.
Following our aspiration to develop strong customers, switch their mindset from a product-centric leaders, we have developed an extensive leadership 20 approach to the client-centric approach and equip them development programme.
369 with new skills and techniques accordingly.
202 669 The Groups corporate learning system is comprised of 56 In 2018, we are also partnering with international a wide range of internal and external training sessions 22 consulting and training company Franklin Covey for specifically designed to meet the needs of front and back development of a training programme for our sales office employees at the Group.
Middle and senior-level force to better understand of the Banks client-centered employees are given the opportunity to receive external Others approach.
Participants of this training programme will training in well known training institutions outside improve their ability to dialogue with clients in order of Georgia.
19 to achieve common goals, build long-term sustainable 374 solutions for our clients and help them in their decision 278 making process of buying products and services.
919 150 98 under 20 years old 21-30 years old 21-30 years old 41-50 years old over 51 years old 82 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 83
