Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Salary in the form of cash and long-term deferred shares Performance-based remuneration discretionary deferred shares Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity To closely align the Executive The level of base salary for an Executive Director is fixed in his or The level of cash salary and In the context of overall Performance-based remuneration is awarded annually entirely The maximum number of Directors and shareholders her service agreements.
The level of salary is reviewed by the number of deferred salary Group performance, to in the form of nil-cost options over shares which are subject to discretionary deferred shares interests.
Remuneration Committee when a service agreement is up for shares are set in the Executive motivate and reward an vesting discretionary deferred shares.
BOGG does not award that may be awarded in respect To promote long-term value renewal or if there is a significant change in circumstances and the Directors service agreements, Executive Director in relation cash bonuses to Executive Directors.
of the previous work year is creation and share price Executive Director and Remuneration Committee agree to and will be no more than the to his or her contribution to The Remuneration Committee will determine annually the capped at 100% of total salary growth.
consequent changes in their agreements, for example the Remuneration Committee the achievement of the KPIs number of shares to be awarded based on the Executive Directors i. e. cash and deferred share To reflect the role and implementation of a new Remuneration Policy.
considers reasonable based set for him or her by the achievement of his her KPIs set for the work year and the salary, calculated as set out required duties, skills, Salary is comprised principally of long-term deferred shares on his or her duties, skills and Remuneration Committee performance of the Group during that year.
If appropriate, in the notes to this Policy table.
experience and individual deferred share salary, plus a cash salary.
In the event that towards the beginning of where a strategic change or change in business circumstances contribution to the Group.
Deferred share salary is awarded in the form of nil-cost options another Executive Director is the year.
has made one or more of the KPIs an inaccurate gauge of the To encourage commitment annually in respect of the work year, and is usually expected to be appointed, the value of his or her Performance-based Executive Directors performance, the Remuneration Committee to the Group and to recruit awarded towards the beginning of the work year.
It is noted that total salary and his or her bonus remuneration solely in the may decide to base its assessment on alternative measures.
and retain high-calibre none of the deferred share salary vests during the work year or opportunity i. e. the form of deferred shares The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to consider talent.
the year after: and also it is subject to pro rata lapse in the event discretionary deferred shares no cash : the performance of the individual and the Group as a whole.
an incomplete year is worked.
is not expected to exceed that - Closely aligns the interests The outcome of the Executive Directors performance and the Deferred share salary in respect of a work year will vest over five of the CEO at the time.
of an Executive Director Remuneration Committees determination will be reported in the years from the start of the year in which the salary is earned as The Remuneration Committee with shareholders.
Directors Remuneration Report for the work year in consideration.
follows: 25% will vest on each of the second, third, fourth and fifth has the discretion to change the - Avoids inappropriate risk Any discretionary deferred shares will normally be granted following anniversary of the start of the work year.
split of total salary between the taking for short-term gain.
the end of the work year, although the Remuneration Committee Upon vesting the Executive Director also receives cash payments cash salary and the deferred - Encourages long-term retains the discretion to determine the timing of the awards.
equal to the dividends paid on the underlying shares between the share salary.
Any discretionary deferred shares will vest 40% on the third date the award was made and the vesting date.
and 60% on the fourth anniversary of the start of the work year Lapse provisions natural malus are built into the deferred share effectively over four years from the beginning of the work year.
Cash salary salary as set out in the notes to this Policy table.
Extended malus Each tranche will be subject to a further holding period of The total amount payable to and clawback provisions do not apply to the deferred share salary two years.
the current CEO and Executive as the awards attach to salary already earned.
Instead the Upon vesting, the Executive Director also receives cash payments Director, MrGachechiladze, Remuneration Committee considers the discretionary deferred equal to the dividends paid on the underlying shares between is US$ 370,000 per annum.
salary as a sufficiently large pool from which to apply the the date the award was made and the vesting date.
extended malus and clawback provisions KPIs for the Executive Director are set near the start of each work Deferred share salary if necessary in the circumstances to do so.
year and reflect the Executive Directors targeted contribution The total number of deferred to the Groups overall key strategic and financial objectives for share salary shares for the work year.
KPIs may also include non-tangible factors such Mr Gachechiladze is fixed as self-development, mentoring and social responsibility.
There is no contractual right to discretionary deferred shares and the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to award no discretionary deferred share remuneration if the Groups performance is unsatisfactory.
Extended malus and clawback, in addition to lapse provisions natural malus apply as set out in the notes to this Policy table.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity The Group is required to Pension provision will be in line with Georgian pension legislation, In line with current Georgian comply with pension which may change from time to time.
legislation, the Executive requirements set by the The most recent pension legislation that the Bank must Director and the Bank each Georgian Government.
comply with has been in effect since January 2019. contribute 2% of total Pension provision is the There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of remuneration from the Bank, same for all employees in pension payments.
and the Georgian Government the Group in Georgia.
may contribute a further small amount 0-2% depending on income levels.
Pension contributions will only increase above this level if mandated by Georgian legislation or if mandated by any other applicable legislation.
The same arrangement applies to employees across the Group in Georgia.
132 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 133 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Notes to the Policy table Benefits Cash salary Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity The Remuneration Committee has the discretion under the Policy to change the currency in which cash salary is paid Non-cash benefits are in line Benefits consist of: life insurance: health insurance: incapacity There is no prescribed maximum and also has the discretion to determine the appropriate exchange rates for determining the cash salary to be paid.
with Georgian market disability insurance: directors and officers liability insurance: on the value of benefits payable practice and are designed to physical examinations: tax gross-ups and tax equalisation to an Executive Director.
The Deferred share salary be sufficient to attract and payments: company car and driver: mobile phone costs: personal maximum amount payable Deferred share salary is the most important element of the Executive Directors fixed annual remuneration and is retain high-calibre talent.
security arrangements if requested by the Executive Director : depends on the cost of providing commensurate with his or her role within the Group.
By weighting salary towards a deferred share salary that vest over assistance with completing tax returns where required : such benefits to an employee in five years rather than cash, the Executive Directors day-to-day actions are geared towards achievement of the Groups relocation costs for Executive Director and close family and the location at which the strategic goals and sustained Group performance over the long term.
Deferred share salary is granted towards the legal costs.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time if considered If the Executive Directors beginning of the work year and vests 25% on each of the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversary from the start of reasonable and appropriate.
personal circumstances do not the work year i. e. over five years from the start of the work year.
There is no provision for the recovery or withholding of benefits.
change and the Group is able to obtain benefits on substantially The deferred share salary is neither a bonus nor an LTIP: it is salary fixed in an Executive Directors service agreement s the same terms as at the date and is therefore not subject to performance targets or measures.
That salary increases or declines in value depending of this Policy, the aggregate on Group performance over the five-year total vesting period, aligning the Executive Directors interests directly and cost of benefits for an Executive naturally with those of shareholders.
Under the new Policy, nil cost options for deferred share salary will be awarded Director during the Policys towards the beginning of the work year rather than at the end as under the prior BGEO Group Plcs remuneration policy life is not expected to change although they will not vest in the work year to which they relate, nor in the year after, in accordance with the vesting materially.
schedule, and will lapse pro rata for any incomplete years worked as well as in other circumstances as further detailed Other Executive Director policies shareholding guidelines below.
The Group will amend the vesting schedule in the Executive Directors service agreement s to reflect this, subject to the new Policy being approved at the 2019 AGM.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity To ensure Executive Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a Not applicable.
For 2019, deferred share salary will be awarded after the Policy becomes effective, but vesting will be adjusted as Directors build and hold shareholding with an 200% equivalent of total salary i. e. cash if it had been awarded in January 2019 and so 25% will vest in each January 2021, January 2022, January 2023 and a significant shareholding in and deferred share salary, such amount to be built up within January2024.
the Group over the long a five-year period from appointment as an Executive Director term.
Performance-based discretionary deferred share Remuneration To align Executive Directors All beneficially owned shares, as well as unvested net of tax and interests with those of vested deferred share salary and discretionary deferred shares No cash bonuses are paid to Executive Directors.
Further the Group does not operate an LTIP because it believes there shareholders.
will count towards the Required Shareholding as such awards is sufficient long-term incentive built into its deferred share salary.
To ensure departing are not subject to any performance conditions after grant.
Executive Directors make Meeting and maintaining the Required Shareholding is Instead, an Executive Directors individual and Group performance is rewarded through an annual award of long-term decisions and likely to happen naturally over the course of the Executive discretionary deferred shares which will vest in two tranches: 40% on the third and 60% on the fourth anniversary maintain an interest in the Directors employment.
of the start of the work year, and are subject to a further holding period of two years, so that there is a total maximum ongoing success of the Executive Directors are to retain the lower of the Required vesting and holding period of five years.
Shareholding or the Executive Directors actual shareholding at the time employment ceases, for a period of two years from The Remuneration Committee will determine the aggregate number of shares if any that will be awarded to an the date on which employment ceases unless the Remuneration Executive Director and as in the table above, the maximum opportunity that Mr Gachechiladze, the current CEO, Committee determines otherwise.
It is noted that a good leaver may hold substantially higher than this in unvested shares alone.
may be awarded in a given year is equivalent to 100% of total salary i. e. cash salary and deferred share salary.
In very exceptional circumstances, for example in the event of This maximum bonus opportunity is calculated as follows: i for the share salary element, the number of deferred salary a serious conflict of interest, the Remuneration Committee has shares: plus ii for the cash salary element, cash salary converted into a number of shares calculated using the most the discretion to vary or waive the Required Shareholding, but recent closing price at the time and date of the Remuneration Committee meeting at which the discretionary deferred must explain any exercise of its discretion in the Groups next share award is determined.
It should be emphasised that there is no present intention to use this discretion.
The Remuneration Committee will make the determination on number of shares to be award annually in respect of the Executive Directors and the Executive Management Team and will consider the defined maximum opportunity, the Groups performance and the individuals KPIs when making a determination.
Performance measures are chosen to reflect strategic priorities for the Group and will be chosen by the Remuneration Committee annually towards the beginning of the performance year.
The aggregate pool of shares available each year for awards of discretionary deferred share compensation for the Executive Directors and Executive Management as a whole is determined annually by the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion, based on a number of factors including: financial results: strategic objectives: and people and culture objectives.
134 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 135
