The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Alternative Performance Measures Dividend Growth Total Return Performance The amount by which the Companys annual dividend has increased This is the return on the share price see page 3 or NAV per share compared to the previous year, expressed as a percentage of the see NAV per Ordinary Share taking into account both the rise and previous years annual dividend.
fall of the share price or NAV respectively and the dividends and interest paid to shareholders during a given period.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share either additional shares for share price total return or the The value of the Companys assets i. e. investments see note 11 Companys assets for NAV per share total return.
Dividends paid and cash held see Statement of Financial Position less any liabilities and payable are set out in note 10. i. e. bank borrowings and debt securities see notes 14 and 15 for which the Company is responsible divided by the number of shares in issue see note 18.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds in the Statement of Financial Position.
The NAV per share ispublished daily and the year end NAV can be found on page 3.
Ongoing Charge The ongoing charge reflects those expenses of a type which are likelyto recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital orrevenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as acollective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, finance costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The ongoing charge is based on actual costs incurred inthe year see notes 5 and 6 and page 34 as being the best estimate of future costs, in accordance with methodology prescribed by the AIC and is the annualised ongoing charge divided by the average net asset value in the period.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share see page 3 ofaninvestment company is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage oftheNAV per share.
Revenue Return Per Share The revenue return per share is the revenue return for the year seeStatement of Comprehensive Income divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares see note 9 in issue during the year.
See page 29 for details of the Companys key performance indicators KPIs and how the Directors assess some of these  Measures.
References to notes refers to the Notes to Financial Statements contained in the Companys 2018 Annual Report.
