The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the investments.
The ongoing charge is based on actual costs Company and their report for the year from 1 November 2017 incurredinthe year as being the best estimate of future costs, to31October 2018.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC the inaccordance with the AIC methodology.
Company registered and domiciled in England and Wales with company registration number 00026351 was active throughout The Board believes that the ongoing charge during the year theyear under review and was not dormant.
represented good value for money for shareholders.
There is, however, some debate over the most appropriate measure of investment company costs to enable shareholders to assess value Directors for money and to make comparisons between companies.
Whilst Details of the Directors and their appointments can be found on industry agreement on how best to present a single figure for costs page 26. remains elusive, the Company will continue to focus on the ongoing charge which is prepared in accordance with the AICs Directors Remuneration and Shareholdings recommended methodology as a readily-understood measure of theunderlying expenses of running the business.
We are also The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38 provides presenting the information on all costs in a single table.
This information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
indicates the main cost headings in money terms and as a percentage of average net assets.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider 2018 2017 and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an % of % of average average interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the 2018 net 2017 net Company situational conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in Category of cost 000 assets 000 assets place for Directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered 1 Management fee 4,480 0.41% 3,374 0.34% for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the Other expenses 990 0.09% 963 0.10% matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Ongoing charge figure 5,470 0.50% 4,337 0.44% situational conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must act honestly Portfolio transaction costs 720 0.07% 951 0.10% and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the 1 Management fee capped in 2017 see page 4 authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Anysituational conflicts considered, and any authorisations given, Dividend are recorded in the relevant meeting minutes.
The prescribed A final dividend of 5.00p per share, if approved by shareholders at procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what theAGM, will be paid on 28February 2019, to those shareholders terms, to authorise situational conflicts and the Board believes that onthe register on 25January 2019.
The shares go ex-dividend on the system it has in place for reporting and considering situational 24January 2019.
This final dividend together with the three interim conflicts continues to operate effectively.
dividends already paid bring the total dividend for the year to 19.72p.
Related Party Transactions Share Capital The Companys transactions with related parties in the year were The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares with a withits Directors and Janus Henderson.
There were no material nominal value of 25p.
The voting rights of the shares on a poll are transactions between the Company and its Directors during the one vote for every ordinary 1 nominal 4 shares held.
There are no year other than the amounts paid to them in respect of Directors restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, no remuneration for which there were no outstanding amounts special rights with regard to control attached to securities, no payable at the year end.
In relation to the provision of services by agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer the Manager, other than fees payable by the Company in the known to the Company and no agreement which the Company is ordinary course of business and theprovision of sales and party to that affects its control following a takeover bid.
To the extent marketing services, there were no transactions with the Manager that they exist, the revenue profits and capital of the Company affecting the financial position of theCompany during the year including accumulated revenue and capital reserves are available under review.
More details on transactions with the Manager, for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of the ordinary including amounts outstanding attheyear end, are given in note shares.
Upon a winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the 24 on page 72.
Company, the surplus assets would be distributed to the shareholders pro rata to their holding of ordinary shares.
Ongoing Charge and Other Costs At the beginning of the year, there were 123,945,292 ordinary shares The ongoing charge reflects those expenses of a type which are in issue of which 1,338,509 shares were held in treasury.
During the likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital orrevenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a year no shares were issued or bought back.
Therefore, at31October 2018 the number of ordinary shares in issue with voting rights was collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, financing costs and gains or losses arising on 122,606,783.
34 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Report of the Directors continued The number of shares in issue as at10January 2019, being the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include certain information is 123,945,292 including those shares held in treasury.
No shares in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report oracross reference were issued between 31 October 2018 and 10January 2019. table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this regard.
The Company will seek authority from its shareholders at the 2019Annual General Meeting to renew its authority to allot sharesup to 10%of the issued share capital, excluding treasury Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions shares, as at the date of the2019 Annual General Meeting.
Please As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no refer tothe Notice ofMeeting that accompanies this Annual Report greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to for further details.
This can also befound on the Companys 31 October 2018 2017: same, nor does it have responsibility for any website at www.
other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Holdings in the Companys Shares Declaration of interest in the voting rights of the Company as Securities Financing Transactions at31October 2018 in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys As the Company undertakes securities lending it is required to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules was as follows.
reporton Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 ofRegulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing transactions % of include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending voting rights and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-sell back transactions Investec Wealth & Investment 5.4 or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions.
Inaccordance with Article 13 of the Regulation, the Companys There have been no further notifications to 10January 2019, being the involvement in and exposures related to securities lending for the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
accounting period ended 31 October 2018 are detailed on pages 75and 76.
At 31 October 2018, 11.4% of the issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products.
The By order of the Board participants in this scheme are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary Annual General Meeting 15 January 2019 The AGM will be held on 27 February 2019 at 12 noon atTrinity House, London EC3N 4DH.
The Notice of Meeting and details of theresolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the separate document being sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors who were members of the Board at the date ofapproval of this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Annual Report of which the Companys Auditor isunaware and he or she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 43 forms part of the Report of the Directors.
