The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Fund Managers Review has outperformed other global markets for seven years during the last decade and therefore an element of caution is warranted in terms of increasing exposure.
Our stock selection has offset the underweight, with the North American team producing a very impressive performance by focusing on long-term secular trends such as paperless payment, disruption and health care.
The European and Pacific portfolios also delivered strong relative returns, with a focus on quality companies with dominant market positions in their industries.
It was not a year to bet against market trends reversing, momentum remained strong for market leaders and value and income stocks underperformed.
The UK remained mired in Brexit uncertainty which has made theUK stock market almost un-investable in many international The Fund Manager of the portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on investors eyes.
Sterling steadily declined against the US dollar, theyear to 31 October 2018 although it has held its own against the Euro.
The UK economy hasseen little impact from Brexit, benefitting from the lower Review exchange rate.
However the strains have latterly become apparent This past year has been one of the most challenging in my career, as with reduced inward investment flows and tighter labour markets factors beyond the financial world have collided and created a very asimmigration falls.
The portfolios exposure to the UK was difficult environment for investors and companies alike.
I have to look reducedfurther this year, ending at 25.2%.
The majority of the back to the 1960s to find a period when politics dominated financial underperformance against the benchmark can be explained by the markets as much as they have in 2018.
The fear of the unknown UK exposure and the underperformance of the UK stocks we held.
swamped equity markets in 2018 and created an environment Anarrow number of the largest stocks performed well in the UK but whereshare prices outside the US fell sharply towards the end the mid-cap stocks, which are more domestically exposed, did not ofour financial year under review.
The year started in bright form, as against my own scepticism, tax reform in the US was enacted, leading to investors exuberance Outlook about the future.
Markets rallied to set new highs in January, with As I look forward I suspect that the future will not turn out as bad oneof the strongest rises in share prices of growth stocks on record.
The world does not appear on the verge of a sharp There were plenty of signs that the optimism would fade and we did recession but clearly growth is slowing and share prices have begun reduce the gearing into the rally selling some of the best performing to price this in.
There is an incentive on all sides to get trade stocks in the portfolio.
The US Federal Reserve clearly indicated at discussions concluded and I expect a better picture to emerge as the start of 2018 that it would raise interest rates throughout the theyear develops.
By the summer many of the uncertainties will yearand the European Central Bank ECB announced that its have resolved themselves in one form or another and we should quantitative easing bond purchases would reduce monthly and have a clearer outlook.
Valuations have fallen significantly in recent cease by the end of the year.
These actions would progressively months and we have an opportunity to invest cash at very favourable drain liquidity in markets and reduce money supply.
An element of caution still seems sensible and we tightening cycles, we have seen market volatility increase and equity are looking to purchase only quality companies with strong balance prices decline.
I had expected a difficult summer but the sell-off sheets, rather than recovery situations that require a higher level of didnt start until October.
It looks like a year of two halves lies ahead of us.
Our line up of fund managers has not changed this year but sadly Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson, our European fund manager, has decided to retire in 15 January 2019 early 2019 after a long career with Janus Henderson and nearly 20years helping Bankers.
His replacement will be James Ross, whojoined Janus Henderson in 2007 and has worked closely with Corporate Revenue Exposure at Tim in recent years.
31October 2018 Asset Allocation Emerging Other 13.1% 2017: 11.3% In hindsight asset allocation was a simple decision of owning American equities and the US dollar to the exclusion of all other North America global markets.
Every other region declined with only Japan holding 30.5% flat: Chinese equities fell over 20%, in a bear market.
US investors 2017: 28.1% Emerging Asia 17.9% clearly repatriated assets, with investment flows movingfrom 2017: 19.6% international markets back into US dollars.
Despite theexpensive valuations we increased the investment in the US, resisting the Developed Asia Pacific temptation to lock in gains.
The portfolios underperformance relative ex Japan 3.6% Japan 8.3% to the FTSE World Index is partly explained by the smaller exposure 2017: 3.5% 2017: 8.7% to the US relative to the benchmark, 31.6% as compared to 60.6%.
Europe ex UK 14.9% 2017: 14.9% Ibelieve thatpurchasing expensively valued companies will ultimately UK 11.7% 2017: 13.9% hurt returns over time.
The US is now a highly valued market that 7
