The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Directors The Directors appointed to the Board at the date of this report are: Richard Killingbeck Julian Chillingworth Position: Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations, Position: Director Management Engagement and Insider Committees Date of appointment: 25 February 2015 Date of appointment: 19 December 2003 Julian is currently Chief Investment Officer for Rathbone Brothers plc.
Chairman25September 2013 He was formerly Head of Gross Funds which incorporated Pension Richard was Chief Executive Officer of W. H. Ireland Group plc and Funds and Charities at Investec and was Head of Equities at prior to that hewas Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Hambros.
Hehas been involved in the financial services industry for 30years, initially as a fund manager and latterly in a number of senior Isobel Sharp, CBE management roles, at Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Position: Director andClose Brothers.
During his career he has been based primarily in London but has also spent part of this time in New York.
Date of appointment: 1 November 2017 Audit Committee Chairman 21February 2018 Isobel is currently a non-executive director, and Audit Committee Chair, Susan Sue Inglis at IMI plc and Winton Group Ltd and was formerly on the board, and Position: Senior Independent Director SID Remco Chair, at the UK Green Investment Bank plc.
She is also a Date of appointment: 1 November 2012 SID since February 2015 member of the Edinburgh Universitys Business School International Sue has a wealth of experience from more than 30 years advising Advisory Board and, as an Honorary Professor there, lectures on investment companies and financial institutions.
Before embarking corporate governance and auditing matters.
Isobel has extensive ona non-executive career her executive roles included Managing accounting, auditing and corporate governance experience.
Most Director Corporate Finance in the Investment Companies teams at recently she was with Deloitte LLP as the firms Senior Technical Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 2012-2018 and Canaccord Genuity Partner until 2012.
She has served as President of The Institute of 2009-2012.
Sue is a qualified lawyer, and was a partner, and head Chartered Accountants of Scotland and on the UK Accounting of the funds and financial services group, at Shepherd & Wedderburn, Standards Board and the Financial Reporting Review Panel, and a leading Scottish law firm.
In 1999 she was a founding partner of wasawarded the CBE in 2009.
Intelli Corporate Finance, an advisory boutique firm focusing on the asset management and investment company sectors which was Richard Huntingford acquired by Canaccord Genuity in 2009.
She is currently a nonPosition: Director executive director of Baillie Gifford US Growth Trust PLC, BMO Managed Portfolio Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
Date of appointment: 26 September 2018 Richard has been involved in the media and marketing sector for more than 30 years and has held a number of executive and non-executive roles in listed and private businesses.
These include: CEO of Chrysalis plc, founder of Heart FM: Chairman of Virgin Radio: Chairman of Wireless Group plc formerly UTV Media plc and Creston plc: and non-executive director of Virgin Mobile plc.
He is currently Chairman of Future plc and Crown Place VCT plc and non-executive director of JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc.
All Directors are independent of Janus Henderson and are members of the Audit Committee except the Chairman, Management Engagement Committee and Insider Committee.
The Chairman, Susan Inglis, Julian Chillingworth and Isobel Sharp are members of the Nominations Committee.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Registered Office Financial Calendar 201 Bishopsgate Annual results announced January 2019 London EC2M 3AE Ex dividend date 24 January 2019 Dividend record date 25 January 2019 1 Annual General Meeting 27 February 2019 Service Providers Final dividend payable on 28 February 2019 Alternative Investment Fund Manager 1st interim dividend payable on 30 May 2019 Henderson Investment Funds Limited Half year results announced July 2019 201 Bishopsgate 2nd interim dividend payable on 30 August 2019 London EC2M 3AE 3rd interim dividend payable on 29 November 2019 1 At Trinity House, London EC3N 4DH at 12 noon Corporate Secretary Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 201 Bishopsgate Information Sources London EC2M 3AE For more information about The Bankers Investment Trust PLC, visit Telephone: 020 7818 1818 the website at www.
Depositary and Custodian HGi BNP Paribas Securities Services HGi is a content platform provided by Janus Henderson that offers 10 Harewood Avenue online personalisation where you can follow investment experts, London NW1 6AA topics and the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating your HGi profile you will be updated regularly on the topics that interest you Stockbrokers most, bringing you closer to Janus Hendersons investment expertise.
UK JP Morgan Cazenove Scan the QR code or use this short URL 25 Bank Street to register for HGi: http: HGi.
co rb Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP New Zealand Follow Janus Henderson Investment Trusts First NZ Capital Securities on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook Level 20 For alternative access to Janus Hendersons insight you can now ANZ Centre follow on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook 23-29 Albert Street PO Box 5333 Auckland, New Zealand Registrar Investing UK Shares can be purchased in the market via a stockbroker or Equiniti Limited throughshare dealing platforms.
They can also be held through Aspect House share plans, ISAs or pensions and links to various providers are Spencer Road included on the website.
Individuals holding shares through Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA HalifaxShare Dealing Limited can write to them at Lovell Park Road, Telephone: 0371 384 2471 or 44 121 415 7049 if calling from Leeds LS1 1NS or contact them via telephone: 03457 22 55 25, overseas.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time Monday to email: customercare.
co. uk or visit their website: Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
New Zealand Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the Computershare Investor Services Limited Private Bag 92119 income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of Victoria Street West statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Auckland 1142, New Zealand Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Nominee Share Code Independent Auditor Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will Ernst & Young LLP arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general 25 Churchill Place meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
London E14 5EY 27 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Status The Company is registered as a public limited company and is an investment company as defined under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
It has been approved as an investment trust under Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, as amended, and is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company continues to conduct its affairs as an Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Company maintains a premium main market listing on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules published by the UK Listing Authority.
The Company is governed by its Articles of Association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a special resolution.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board, with the assistance of Janus Henderson, has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In carrying out this assessment, the Board has considered the market uncertainty arising from the UKs negotiations to leave the European Union.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified, and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as practicable, and whether the Board considers the impact of such risks has changed over the past year, are as follows: Risk Controls and mitigation Investment Activity and Performance Risks An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset The Board monitors investment performance at each Board allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance against the meeting and regularly reviews the extent of the Companys Companys various indices and the companies in its peer group.
Portfolio and Market Risks Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that arelisted on The Fund Manager seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
Thecompanies in which tomitigate against this risk.
The Board regularly reviews the investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
Macro portfolio, investment activity and performance.
matters such as trade wars, the conclusion of the UKs negotiations to leave the European Union and the global economic outlook are expected to lead to continued volatility in the markets.
This is likely to impact share prices of investments in the portfolio, to the extent not already factored into current prices.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
Tax, Legal and Regulatory Risks A breach of Section 1158 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, Janus Henderson has been contracted to provide investment, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to company secretarial, administration and accounting services corporation tax.
A breach of the UK Listing Authoritys Rules could result in through qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the Companies Act control reports produced by Janus Henderson on a quarterly could lead to criminal proceedings.
All breaches could result in financial or basis, which confirm tax, legal and regulatory compliance reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance with the both in the UK and New Zealand.
Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Financial Risks By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business activities are The Company has a diversified portfolio which comprises exposed to market risk including market price risk, currency risk and mainly investments in large and medium-sized companies interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit and counterparty risk.
and mitigates the Companys exposure to liquidity risk.
TheCompany minimises the risk of a counterparty failing to deliver securities or cash by dealing through organisations that have undergone rigorous due diligence byJanus Henderson.
Further information on the mitigation of financial risks is included in note 16.
Operational and Cyber Risks Disruption to, or failure of, Janus Hendersons accounting, dealing or The Board monitors the services provided by Janus payment systems or the Depositarys records could prevent the accurate Henderson, the Depositary and its other suppliers and reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
The Company receives reports on the key elements in place to provide is also exposed to the operational and cyber risks that one or more of its effective internal control.
service providers may not provide the required level of service.
The Board considers these risks to have remained unchanged throughout the year under review.
28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Viability Statement Performance Measurement and Key The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a Performance Indicators KPIs three year period, taking account of the Companys current position In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Manager the documented in this Strategic Report.
Directors take into account the following KPIs: The Directors conducted the assessment based on a period of three Performance measured against various indices years because they consider this to be an appropriate period over The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the which they do not expect there to be any significant change in the performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and current principal risks and adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
share price for the Company and various indices.
Also the Directors do not envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate over that period as the Companys assets are Performance against the Companys peer group liquid, its commitments are limited and the Company intends to In addition to comparison against the various indices, theBoard continue to operate as an investment trust.
considers the performance of its AIC global sector peer group at each Board meeting and its open-ended equivalent, the IMA Global The assessment considered the impact of the likelihood of the Sector, onaregular basis.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, in particular Investment Activity and Performance, Portfolio and Market and Discount premium to net asset value NAV Financial risks, materialising in severe but plausible scenarios, The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily basis andthe effectiveness of any mitigating controls in place.
through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
Thisfigure is calculated in accordance with the AICs formula.
The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the portfolio, the Ateach Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the gearing and the income stream from the portfolio in considering the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the average viability of the Company over the next three years and its ability to discount premium for the Companys relevant AIC sector.
meet liabilities as they fall due.
This included consideration of the duration of the Companys long-term borrowings, how a breach of the The Board considers the use of share buy-backs and share issues gearing covenants could impact on the Companys net asset value to enhance shareholder value.
During the financial year the and shareprice and how the forecast income stream, expenditure Company did not buy-back any shares 2017:no shares bought andlevels of reserves could impact on the Companys ability to pay back and did not issue any shares 2017:no shares issued.
dividends to shareholders over that period in line with its current dividend policy.
Whilst detailed forecasts are only made over a shorter time frame, the nature of the Companys business as an investment Future Developments trust means that such forecasts are equally valid to be considered over While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent the longer three year period as a means of assessing whether the on the performance of global financial markets which are subject to Company can continue in operation.
various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its stated investment objectives and policy Based on their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable explained on page 4.
The Chairmans Statement, the Fund expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation Managers Review and Fund Manager Reports provide commentary and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three year on the outlook for the Company.
Corporate Responsibility Borrowings Responsible investment The Company has a 20 million loan facility with The Royal Bank of Janus Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on Scotland plc which expires in 2019.
The Board is considering corporate governance and corporate responsibility issues in the continuing this level of short-term borrowing.
companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across all funds The Company has an 8% 15 million 2023 debenture and as part of its management duties.
In May 2005 Henderson Global Investors became a founding signatory to the United Nations 50million of private placement fixed rate 2035 loan notes at an Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, developed annualised coupon rate of 3.68%.
under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and Actual gearing at 31 October 2018 was 2.4% 2017:2.3% of aspirational framework for incorporating environmental, social and netasset value.
corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream investment decision-making and ownership practices.
29 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued The way companies respond to ESG issues can affect their Modern Slavery Act 2015 business performance, both directly and indirectly.
ESG factors are As an investment company the Company does not provide goods considered by Janus Henderson investment teams but investments or services in the normal course of business, and does not have are not necessarily ruled out on ESG grounds only.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company is not required to make any slavery or human trafficking statement Janus Hendersons responsible investment policy and further under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. details of responsible investment activities can be found on the website www.
Board Diversity Employees, social, community, human rights and It is the Companys aim to have an appropriate level of diversity in the boardroom.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity environmental matters generally when making appointments to the Board, taking into The Companys core activities are undertaken by Janus account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
Henderson, which has implemented environmental management Ourprime responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and practices, including systems to limit the use of non-renewable our overriding aim in making any new appointments must always resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the be to select the best candidate.
Currently, the Board comprises five environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas Directors, three male and two female.
The Company has no emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
The Company employees and, therefore, there is nothing further to report in has therefore not reported on these, or social, community or respect of gender representation within the Company.
Janus Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on its website.
The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using By order of the Board 50% recycled post consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship Council: the printing company used is certified as CarbonNeutral.
Voting policy and the UK stewardship code The Manager has a responsible investment policy in place which sets out its approach to corporate governance and corporate Richard Killingbeck responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of Chairman its clients and its policy on proxy voting.
The policy also sets out 15 January 2019 how Janus Henderson implements the Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the policy and has delegated responsibility for voting to the Manager.
The Board receives regular reports on the voting undertaken by the Manager on behalf of the Company.
The Board and the Manager believe that voting at general meetingsis an important aspect of corporate stewardship and ameans of signalling shareholder views on board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by thebestinterests of the investee companies shareholders.
Dependingon the nature of the resolution the fund manager willgive specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual orcontroversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale therefore are given to the investee company priorto voting.
Practical difficulties may prevent voting in some markets.
In particular, various factors, including restrictions on dealing and costs, may inhibit voting in some international markets and must betaken into account.
