Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Retail Banking client-centric, multi-brand strategy Over the past decade, Retail Banking has been a primary driver of Banking Business growth and has repeatedly demonstrated a stellar performance by reaching 2.4 million clients, delivering a retail loan book growth of 24.2% y-o-y and Retail Banking ROAE of 30.0% in 2018.
The past several years marked the Banks successful transformation from a product-focused to a client-centric business model, which has resulted in more effective tailor-made services through the Bank of Georgias multi-brand strategy.
We have made significant achievements in creating highly popular digital platforms, such as our mobile banking application mBank and attractive loyalty programmes, both of which are an integral part of our client-centric Over 2.4 million Retail Banking clients business model and our focus on developing stronger customer relationships.
CAGR 12.8% Product to client 2.1 Our Retail Banking is made up of four segments: Express Bank 2.4 2.3 2.1 for emerging retail clients: Bank 2.0 of Georgias flagship mass retail 1.5 1.2 brand: SOLO for the affluent 1.1 0.9 retail clients: and Micro, Small 0.8 0.8 0.7 and Medium Enterprise MSME banking.
Delivering On Current Retail Banking segments 2-3 year targets and priorities Strategy Segments Micro, Small Emerging Retail Mass Retail Mass Affluent and Medium Business Strategic focus Profitability and growth through client-centric business model Clients 539 k 1,663 k 44 k 195 k 2018 profit GEL 40 mln GEL 109 mln GEL 56 mln GEL 79 mln 2.0 % y-o-y -1.4% y-o-y 31.4% y-o-y 58.2% y-o-y Profit per client GEL 75 GEL 67 GEL 1,455 GEL 440 P C ratio 3.3 1.7 5.4 1.4 Branches 165 94 12 n a Adjusted for Demerger-related expenses and one-off impact of remeasurement of deferred tax balances.
24 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 25 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Client-centric, multi-brand strategy Advanced analytics In addition to replacing a product-centric model with the client-centric approach, we have actively invested our resources in revamping credit management in Retail Banking.
Namely, in 2017, we added machine learning tools to Branch operating model traditional statistics used before, and already in 2018, advanced analytics methods, such as client wallet size estimation Customer-centric approach and a probability of default prediction with machine learning algorithms, became business as usual.
This enhanced our capabilities in predictive modelling, through which we aim to further optimise our credit, collections and campaign Client Universal banker Products management in Retail Banking.
In 2018, we implemented new analytics tools to identify the best choices for the shadow limits and to predict customer Mortgages churn.
In order to gain a better insight into the behavioural propensities of our Retail Banking clients, we classified them on a loyalty scale based on the variables such as time span, frequency and monetary value of their engagement with Bank of Georgia.
Client analysis through loyalty classification allows us to predict client relationships with the Bank Deposits and make specific steps to retain them and boost their satisfaction.
Current accounts In 2018, automated decisions accounted for 75% of total consumer loan sales in Retail Banking and 59% of the sales were driven by active campaign management.
A share of automated decisions in Retail Business Banking loan sales Credit cards increased from 11% in 2017 to 47% in 2018 and 29% of the sales were driven by campaign management.
In 2018, the campaigns resulted in a total of c. 19.5 million actions through phone calls, messages and Next Best Offer NBO.
Consumer loans The year 2018 was also marked by our first venture into Natural Language Processing NLP.
We tried our first high precision sentiment evaluation model using customer satisfaction data.
In the future, we aim to use text analytics, an NLP technique, to categorise customer feedback into specific topics, analyse the feedback, extract critical trends from it and find the solutions.
Going forward, we also plan to enhance our NBO and make our customer service even more personalised.
By harnessing big data and machine learning capabilities, we aim to offer our clients relevant products and services that are logically linked to their needs and lifestyle.
We plan to build a recommendation system that self-develops and evolves around Retail Banking customer segmentation client characteristics and habits.
Service model Number of customers Number of branches Number of product categories Underwriting 37% 62% 100k 5min 44.3k 12 Pre-approvals in Fully automated Applications Decision time total credits sold decisions processed per for 85% of SOLO month applications processed 3600 Mass Retail 1,662.5k 94 Targeted campaigns financial planning through different channels 724 14mln 878k Mass Retail Campaigns Offers Sold products Productcentric cross-selling up 5 times y-o-y up 75.0% y-o-y up 3 times y-o-y Emerging Retail 538.7k 165 Emerging Retail 26 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 27 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Bank of Georgia unparalleled mass Retail Banking franchise Under the Bank of Georgia brand, we serve mass retail clients the largest segment of Retail Banking for whom we successfully optimised and redesigned the operating model of our mass retail branches around a client-centric approach.
We proactively interact with our clients by advising and offering them the financial products and solutions that best serve their individual needs.
We continue to see strong growth in sales volumes and the number of products sold in client-centric branches, contributing to 24.2% y-o-y growth in the retail loan book.
In order to unlock the full potential of current customers and boost a product to client ratio, we operate a loyalty programme called Plus.
The programme is part of the mass retail customer-centric approach and offers the customers different status levels and reward points.
They accumulate based on their business with the Bank and can redeem points with partner companies products and or services.
By 31 December 2018, the number of Plus cards more than doubled y-o-y and active Plus cards outstanding were 592,458, while the total number of members grew to 1.4 million.
Relationship brings a 1.4mln 140 7 399 144k Programme Programme Special Active special Transactions members partners campaigns offers with Plus points per month Express serving emerging Retail Banking clients Our Express Bank brand is aimed at the emerging bankable population.
Express serves as a platform for bringing the currently under-banked population into banking and its main focus is to enable its client base to transact in a fast and easy way.
We began implementing our Express Banking strategy in 2012 by rolling out small-format Express branches offering predominantly transactional banking services to clients through ATMs and Express Pay terminals.
By the end of 2018, we had 165 Express branches, comprising 61% of all retail branches, and 3,115 Express Pay terminals serving emerging retail clients.
We are leaders in Georgia in the payment systems market.
We sell only a limited number of banking products to our Express Banking clients.
In 2017, we won a tender, organised by Tbilisi City Hall, for the modernisation of the public transportation payment system in Tbilisi.
As a result, the Bank will continue to be the sole provider of payment support services to the public transport network, and operate Express branches in Tbilisi metro i. e. subway stations for the next ten years.
As part of the tender mandate and the Banks own digitilisation strategy, Bank of Georgia is implementing a modern digital payment system across the public transport network in Tbilisi, including payment processing using Visa and MasterCard cards, and creating a digital platform for ticket reservations and purchases through mobile applications.
In 2018, the number of transactions through our Express branches increased by 17.1% y-o-y to 45.4 million.
Currently, 110out of a total of 165 Express branches are located in Tbilisi.
Express is one of the major drivers in our fee and commission income from the Retail Banking segment GEL In 2018, in order to extend the scale of its payment system, Bank of and a strong franchise attracting the unbanked 45.4mln Georgia was licensed to offer its services to JCB Cards users through population to the Bank, eventually growing them 20.9mln the Banks terminals and ATMs.
Inclusion of JCB cards in Bank of into mass retail customers.
Georgias payment services opens up access to around 117 million Number of Fee and people from 190 countries.
JCB is an international payment brand transactions commission originating from Japan and given the increasing number of tourists from Asia in Georgia, Bank of Georgia is well equipped to offer them through branches income best-in-class services.
up 17.1% y-o-y flat y-o-y 28 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 29 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information The target of 40,000 SOLO clients has already been achieved.
We target growth through increasing engagement of existing clients and maximising the profit per client and product per client measures.
Conversion of mass Retail Banking clients to SOLO clients Mass retail client SOLO client before converting to SOLO after converting to SOLO Product to client ratio 4.7 7.4 Profit per client GEL 355 GEL 772 The results for mass retail clients were calculated on the six-month period before moving to the SOLO segment, while the results shown for SOLO were achieved in a year after becoming a SOLO client.
Education Travel Health Entertainment SOLO a fundamentally different approach to premium banking SOLO is actively diversifying the range of its lifestyle offerings in travel, entertainment, education and well-being The SOLO brand is used to serve the emerging mass We successfully achieved our target of 40,000 SOLO to make the franchise even more distinguishable and enjoyable.
In 2019, we introduced a range of new lifestyle affluent segment.
Our new SOLO model was introduced clients by the end of 2018 ahead of time in the third offers in travel and healthcare.
Our packaged tours in various countries were very well received among SOLO clients.
It is a fundamentally different approach to quarter of 2018, reaching 44,292 customers as at In healthcare, we designed widely popular insurance products against terminal diseases, whereby we offer direct premium banking.
As part of the new strategy, the Banks 31 December 2018, up from 8,282 in 2015.
The share reimbursement of expenses in predetermined amounts.
SOLO clients are given access to exclusive products and of new customers acquired in 2018 accounted for the finest concierge-style environment at our specially 37.0% of the total of SOLO clients at the end of the year, designed SOLO lounges, and are provided with new which clearly demonstrates the popularity of the franchise lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events and in our domestic market.
SOLO Club, a membership group within SOLO launched To qualify for SOLO services one needs to have an in 2017, offers exclusive access to SOLOs products income of GEL 3,000 per month.
At SOLO lounges, and offers ahead of other SOLO clients at a higher fee.
clients are attended by personal bankers and, in addition This includes American Express Platinum cards which are to the banking products, are offered luxury goods at available to SOLO Club members only.
At 31 December cost and other lifestyle offers including a travel magazine 2018, SOLO Club had 3,825 members.
In 2018, SOLO organised concerts with world famous artists.
Such events are limited Given the exclusive character of SOLO, going forward to SOLO clients and create additional interest in the we will mainly target growth through existing clients by SOLO franchise.
increasing customer loyalty and engagement and focus on maximising the profit per client and product per Profit per SOLO client reached GEL 1,455 in 2018, over client measures.
21times more than what we have in the mass retail segment under the Bank of Georgia brand.
SOLOs gross In 2019, we are planning to offer our SOLO clients loan book and deposit portfolio demonstrated impressive an enhanced mBank equipped with personal finance growth of 45.9% and 38.4% y-o-y, respectively.
management tools that will make the application even more comfortable and user-friendly.
Adjusted for Demerger-related expenses and one-off impact of remeasurement of deferred tax balances.
30 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 31 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Micro, small and medium enterprise lending Case studies: supporting Georgian businesses Bank of Georgia actively supports MSME businesses in Georgia by offering them local currency resources, along with Urban Greens foreign currency loans, and by designing the products and services that help them thrive.
Over the last couple of years, we have focused on developing a relationship banking model for our Small and Medium Enterprise SME clients, Urban Greens is a Georgian greenhouse and a micro improving their banking experience, enhancing their exposure to our digital channels and boosting innovative product greens specialist.
Micro greens are grown for everyday offerings.
In 2019, we plan to open a Bank of Georgias Business branch, where well trained relationship bankers will household consumption and for fine dining restaurants offer one-stop-shop banking and advisory services to our business clients.
We are dedicated to helping them develop that use micro greens as ingredients or as visual successful enterprises, which is why we plan to also include educational and advisory components in our services.
The young founders of the greenhouse The Business branch will be designed around a similar concept as the affluent segment in Retail Banking SOLO associate Urban Greens with a healthy and sustainable and will focus on creating outstanding banking experience for our clients, both in terms of innovative products and lifestyle, and are committed to using the best quality business-specific consulting services from a relationship banker.
We aim to increase cross-selling opportunities between seeds and a clean environment to grow their greens.
SOLO and SME segments and already have a dedicated unit in place in order to tap into the existing potential in the SMEmarket.
The greenhouse was founded in 2015, initially as an experiment and was so well received that by the end of In March 2019, Bank of Georgia offered its business clients a fully updated business internet bank Business iBank.
2018, Urban Greens already delivered its products not only Moreover, we are in the process of developing a business finance management tool that will integrate accounting in Tbilisi, but also in several other Georgian cities, including software into the Business iBank account of our clients.
The aim is to make any interaction of SMEs with the Bank Batumi.
Urban Greens was built on just 15 hectares of even more comfortable and effortless, with speedier and more automated information and process management.
land but a rapidly increasing demand for its greens from professional chefs and households enabled the company In 2018, the Bank introduced a new payment method QR PAY to the local small business market.
QR PAY has been to quickly expand to 150 hectares nearby Tbilisi.
The designed by the Bank as an alternative payment mechanism to the traditional point of sale terminal for small Georgian mission of Urban Greens is a swift delivery of its fresh businesses that previously relied on cash transactions as a means for their customers to settle payments.
In order to and high-quality products.
connect to QR PAY and enjoy the benefits of cashless payments, small businesses need to have an account with Bank of Georgia.
Once connected, they start receiving QR PAY services free of charge for the first year.
Thereafter, a service Bank of Georgia supported Urban Greens with GEL commission is based on the turnover of the enterprise.
This is a significant advantage for small businesses with low 20,000 to finance its working capital at the time of turnover.
For customers who use Bank of Georgias mobile bank and a debit or credit card, settling payments with the farms expansion.
Financing young entrepreneurs QR PAY is simple and user-friendly.
There are already up to 800 small businesses connected to QR PAY.
with brilliant business ideas is what Bank of Georgia is passionate about and the Bank continues to be a helping By the end of 2018, we had 195,230 MSME clients, up from 165,781 in 2017, and a loan book increase to GEL 2,176 million hand to prospective small businesses.
Schuchmann Wines Georgia Strategic focus Schuchmann Wines Georgia SWG was founded in 2008 in the very centre of the Georgian wine growing region, Kisiskhevi, Kakheti, Georgias Eastern region.
One-stop-shop SWG produces wines out of three distinct vineyard sites: Focus on Simple Innovative within the Bank Education and Napareuli, Tsinandali, Kindzmarauli.
Their flagship wines loyalty and onboarding and product of Georgia advisory Saperavi, Rkatsiteli, Kisi, Kindzmarauli, Mtsvane and the best customer digital channel offerings business services Cabernet Sauvignon are produced from indigenous experience capabilities branch grape varieties cultivated in specific micro zones of Kakheti at the winery location.
Most of SWGs wines are exported and have won numerous awards for their quality and uniqueness.
The company owns the vineyards and runs a state-of-the-art production line.
Leading service provider for MSMEs Bank of Georgias first support to SWG totalled GEL 725,000 and was aimed at wine production.
SWG also operates a spa-hotel in the village of Kisiskhevi.
195,230 GEL 79mln GEL 2.2bln GEL 664mln Recently, Bank of Georgia financed SWGs new enterprise Schuchmann Real Estate with GEL 2 million.
The purpose Number Net Loan Client of the loan was to fund the construction of cottages of clients income book deposits around the spa-hotels territory.
up 17.8% y-o-y up 58.2% y-o-y up 25.1% y-o-y up 52.3% y-o-y Winemaking is Georgias identity card and an important cultural heritage, as well as a touristic gem.
Bank of Georgia takes pride in financing such an important sector in the Georgian economy.
32 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 33 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Corporate Investment Banking With c. 2,500 clients by the end of 2018, Bank of Georgias Corporate Investment Banking CIB is a leading provider of corporate banking solutions in Georgia.
Our CIB franchise leverages its best-in-class expertise in product design and 360degree view of every client to execute profitable transactions for the Bank and offer excellent services to clients.
In 2018, the Banks CIB loan portfolio resumed growth after our strategic goal to fide-concentrate and reposition the CIB loan portfolio was successfully achieved by the end of 2017.
CIBs net loan book reached GEL 2.6 billion at 31 December 2018, up 15.9% y-o-y, while the growth on a constant-currency basis was 12.9% y-o-y.
The top ten CIB client concentration was 9.8% of total loan book at the end of 2018, compared to 10.7% at 31 December 2017.
While aiming for a healthy growth of the Corporate Investment Banking loan book, Bank of Georgia will continue to prudently manage the concentration risk so that the exposure to its top ten clients is maintained around 10% of the total loan book.
CIBs loan portfolio is targeted to grow by c. 15% and we aim for profitability in terms of a ROAE to be at 20%.
We are planning to boost our fee and commission income through corporate advisory and brokerage services from our subsidiary Galt & Taggart a leading investment bank and a brokerage house in Georgia.
Galt & Taggart is actively involved in developing local capital markets and for years has provided services to a number of corporate clients and DFIs and assisted them with placing their bonds on the local stock exchange.
In 2018, Galt & Taggart facilitated a public placement of GEL 160 million local bonds issued by Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. FMO and was also a lead manager for Black Sea Trade and Development Bank when the latter issued GEL 75 million in the local market.
In 2018, Galt & Taggart co-managed an international bond issuance totaling US$ 200 million by Georgia Capital.
In order to provide its clients with access to global capital markets and enable them to invest on a multi-asset basis, Galt & Taggart has partnered with Saxo Bank since 2015.
The partnership with Saxo Bank enhances the trading experience of our clients by offering them the latest trading technology and an opportunity to directly access financial markets.
Strategic focus Manage Focus on Loan portfolio Maintain concentration risk, Acquire and automation growth profitability of with top 10 clients retain top and fee of c. 15% ROAE 20% 10% of total talent business loan book Leading Corporate Investment Bank in Georgia GEL GEL Wealth Management GEL 2.6bln GEL 3.5bln 119.1mln 26.7mln Bank of Georgias Wealth Management is a private banking arm of our Corporate Investment Banking which serves high-net worth individuals and offers investment management products internationally through representative Net loans Client deposits Net income Net F&C income offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul, Tel Aviv and Limassol.
Since its launch in 2005, our customer base in Wealth Management increased to 1,528 clients from 76 countries compared to 1,434 clients from 75 countries in 2017.
Assets up 15.9% y-o-y up 0.5% y-o-y up 12.5% y-o-y up 17.4% y-o-y under management AUM increased to GEL 2,271.5 million, up 22.3% y-o-y.
In January 2019, Bank of Georgia opened an office in the centre of Tbilisi, which is dedicated to serve our Wealth Management clients.
This coincides with the creation of a new brand identity for the Banks Wealth Management, which is based on the virtues of both Georgia and the Bank itself.
The country offers a number of advantages such as stability, a liberal tax system, innovative financial services, a growing economy and security to international investors.
Bank of 22.6% c. 2,500 Georgia is a leading bank that delivers strong returns, constantly innovates and is known for reliability.
Our strategic focus in Wealth Management is to turn it into a regional hub for private banking and extend its client base to nearby countries.
A stable business environment in Georgia and Bank of Georgias reputation and expertise make it a perfect ROAE Clients bank for affluent individuals to do business with.
Bank of Georgia is a digitally strong bank, but we always apply a tailormade approach when the needs of our clients are concerned.
up 500bps y-o-y down 5.0% y-o-y Adjusted for Demerger-related expenses and one-off impact of re-measurement of deferred tax balances.
34 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 35
