Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee does not utilise strict weighting of performance measures: this is in order to ensure Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group that it has flexibility to adjust awards for example, if strategic objectives evolve or if business circumstances change Remuneration packages for all Group employees comprise both fixed and variable elements.
In accordance with during the year.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this flexibility ensures that the Board can work with an prevailing commercial practice, the Remuneration Committee does not formally consult with employees in preparing the Executive Director so that he or she does not take excessive risk to achieve KPIs.
Even in a good year for an Executive Remuneration Policy but in determining an Executive Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee considers: Director e. g. achievement of most of his or hers KPIs, if this coincides with a bad year for the Group e. g. markets i pay and employment conditions of senior management including Executive Management : have turned, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award little or no discretionary remuneration to the ii pay and employment conditions across the Group as a whole: Executive Director if it considers it appropriate to do so.
The precise measures will be determined by the Remuneration iii whether employees across the Group are personally satisfied with the way they are remunerated: and Committee and disclosed retrospectively in the Remuneration Report following the year of the Remuneration iv feedback received from Human Resources Executive Management and other employees in the executive Committees determination.
Our employees remuneration packages are comprised of cash salary, bonus opportunity and benefits.
For Executive Malus and Clawback Management, the remuneration package is heavily weighted towards deferred shares in the form of nil-cost options Discretionary deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback in the following circumstances: which align remuneration of Executive Management with shareholder interest.
All employees receive a competitive misconduct in the performance or substantial failure to perform duties by the Executive: benefit package in line with Georgian market practice and all Georgian employees are entitled to participate in the significant financial losses, serious failure of risk management or serious damage to the reputation of BOGG national pension scheme on the same terms as applicable to Executive Directors.
Other factors taken into consideration or the Bank caused by misconduct or gross negligence including inaction of the Executive: are competition in the market place, individual performance and competencies.
Usually, exceptional personal material misstatement or material errors in the financial statements that relate to the area of responsibility performance is recognised through variable pay.
The Company also operates an Employee Equity Compensation Plan of the Executive or can be attributed to action or inaction of the Executives performance of their duties: on a discretionary basis.
deliberately misleading BOGG or the Bank in relation to financial performance: failure to continue to meet the fitness and properness criteria for an Executive of the Bank: For a FTSE 250 company of our size and depth, our Executive Directors and senior management must have the skills, material increase with respect to the required regulatory capital of the Bank that can be attributed to the action experience, work ethic and attitude required to successfully execute our strategy, meet our objectives and create or inaction of the Executive: value for shareholders over the long term.
In order to recruit and retain this talent, we must benchmark the value misconduct that contributed to the imposition of material regulatory or other similar sanctions: and of remuneration against other FTSE companies of similar size and sector listed in the UK.
payments based on erroneous or misleading data, for which malus and clawback apply to discretionary deferred remuneration for awarded for the year in question.
The remuneration of employees in the Group, other than Executive Director s and senior management, is benchmarked against the Georgian Labour Market as this is the most relevant comparator.
The Remuneration Committee is regularly Provided that the Policy is approved by shareholders at the AGM 2019, the above provisions will form part of informed by Human Resources of remuneration developments across the Group.
The Group also intends to amend the Executive Equity Compensation Plan to reflect the above.
The compensation structure of the Executive Management is set by the Remuneration Committee and is modelled on the Policy but the Remuneration Committee is not bound by it when setting the Executive Managements remuneration.
Clawback is for up to one year from vesting and for the Groups current Executive Director and CEO, Mr Gachechiladze, The Remuneration Committee generally awards members of the Executive Management discretionary deferred shares the Group also has unusually strong malus provisions where all unvested shares including deferred share salary and as a bonus to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders and to help set the tone from the top.
discretionary deferred shares lapse when the service contract is terminated under certain circumstances, including for Cause such as gross misconduct, failure to perform duties, material breach of obligations and unethical behaviour.
This may be several years of deferred share salary and discretionary deferred shares.
See the Termination of the JSC Bank Equity Compensation Trusts and dilution limits of Georgia service agreement in the table on page 140.
The Bank of Georgia Group operates two employee benefit trusts EBT, one for senior executives, and the other for employees below the executive level the ESOPs, which hold ordinary shares on trust for the benefit of employees Discretion and former employees of the Group, and their dependents, and which is used in conjunction with the Groups employee The Remuneration Committee retains a substantial degree of discretion in relation to discretionary share remuneration.
This includes: the determination of the award, if any: The Bank of Georgia Group has committed that new shares issued in satisfaction of share compensation from the time selection of KPIs, which may vary from year to year in order to align with strategy and financial objectives: of the Companys listing on the premium segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of Bank of Georgia Groups ordinary any adjustments required to an Executive Directors KPIs during the work year when, for example, there has been share capital over any ten-year period.
a change in strategy or business circumstances which results in one or more KPIs becoming an inaccurate gauge of performance: and Business expenses the discretion to override any formulaic outcomes when it considers it reasonable in the circumstances to do so prior Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses incurred in the course of carrying out duties to or upon vesting of discretionary deferred shares.
under their service contract, on provision of valid receipts.
For the avoidance of doubt the Group shall not award or shall reduce the amount of the award accordingly to the Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy extent that such award would cause a breach of the NBGs capital adequacy requirements and other regulatory ratios.
The chart below shows an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Mr Gachechiladze, our sole Executive Director and CEO, in respect of 2019 under the proposed Policy at three different performance levels.
The chart represents a full years remuneration for illustration purposes.
136 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 137 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued US$4,984,826 Relocation support, tax support and legal fees depending on the individuals circumstances, including, where relevant, to his or her family.
The Group has not set a maximum aggregate amount that may be paid in respect of any individuals relocation support, but it will aim to provide support of an appropriate level and quality on the best terms that can US$3,575,696 28% reasonably be obtained.
US$3,039,737 Upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, a buy out incentive award intended to compensate the incoming Executive Director for any awards which were granted to an incoming Executive Director by US$1,789,166 US$1,841,976 a previous employer and which have been foregone as a result of an individuals employment with the Group.
40% 49% 35% In these circumstances, the Groups approach will be to match the estimated current value of the foregone awards 40% by granting awards of deferred share compensation which vest over a similar period to the awards being bought out.
45% 39% 77% 28% 38% The application of performance conditions and or clawback provisions may also be considered, where appropriate.
23% 15% 12% 9% 22% Such new awards may be granted in addition to any deferred share salary and discretionary deferred share No share No share No share 50% share 50% share price growth price growth price growth compensation.
price growth price decline Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Minimum Target Maximum Target The table below sets out our Policy for the operation of Non-Executive Directors fees and benefits at the Company.
Fixed cash salary Fixed share salary Discretionary deferred Share price growth Each Non-Executive Director also serves as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
It is proposed that, share compensation if the Policy is approved, the Non-Executive Director fees stated below will apply in each year that the Policy operates The 50% share price appreciation disclosure is made voluntarily by the Group as performance measures are limited from the date of approval of the Policy.
to one year for investor information.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Notes: To attract and retain high All fees are paid in cash on a quarterly basis.
Salary is comprised of cash and deferred salary shares.
Mr Gachechiladzes total cash salary in 2019 in respect of his service agreement with the Group would be US$ 370,000 noting the chart represents a full years salary for illustration purposes.
The value of the deferred share salary payable would be US$ 1,381,500 calculated by reference to the performing Non-Executive Fees may be reviewed from time to time by the Board PLC fees for all Non-Executive closing share price of BOGG on 8 January 2019, the day before the Remuneration Committee meeting, being US$ 18.419 per share the official share price of GBP 14.468 Directors with the requisite but not necessarily changed, taking into account the time Directors which may be paid per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.2731, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
Deferred share salary skills, knowledge, experience, commitment, responsibilities and the technical skills required under BOGG PLCs Articles of in respect of 2019 will be formally granted following the 2019 AGM and will vest over five years from the start of the year in which it is earned as follows: 25% will vest in independence and other to make a valuable contribution to the Board, and by reference Association is GBP 750,000.
For the purpose of this graph, we have added the value of pension and benefits to cash salary.
The means of determining the number of shares underlying the discretionary deferred share remuneration and terms and conditions applicable to this remuneration are attributes to add value to to comparators, benchmarking, results of the annual review A specific maximum has not described in the Policy table.
Discretionary deferred shares in respect of 2019 will be formally granted in 2020 and will vest 40% in January 2022 and 60% in January 2023, the Group.
The fees may also be amended and been set for the individual base and each tranche will be subject to a further two-year holding period following vesting.
To reflect the responsibilities varied if there are genuinely unforeseen and exceptional cash fee.
Minimum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gachechiladze receives only fixed remuneration which is salary cash and deferred share salary, pension contributions of time commitment dedicated circumstances which necessitate such review and in The Senior Independent and benefits and the Remuneration Committee considers that the Groups and or Mr Gachechiladzes performance in 2019 does not warrant any award of discretionary deferred shares.
such circumstances any significant increase shall be the Non-Executive Director receives 4.
On-target opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gachechiladze receives fixed remuneration as described in 3. above and discretionary deferred shares with a minimum reasonably required.
The Board reserves the right a higher base fee which reflects value of US$ 1,226,050, being 70% of the maximum opportunity as described in 5. below.
In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee considers that the Groups and to structure the Non-Executive Directors fee differently the extra time commitment Mr Gachechiladzes performance in 2019 are in line with the Groups expectations.
Maximum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gachechiladze receives fixed remuneration as described in 3. above and discretionary deferred shares with a value of US$ 1,751,500, being 100% of total salary i. e. cash and deferred share salary.
In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee considers that the Groups and Mr Gachechiladzes Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee.
Additional The Chairman receives a fee performance in 2019 warrant the highest possible level of discretionary deferred share remuneration.
Committee fees are payable to compensate for time which reflects the extra time 6.
The Group made a voluntary disclosure of 50% share price appreciation at the maximum opportunity for illustrative purposes.
The calculations were based on the share price spent discharging Bank duties and Committee duties.
increasing from US$ 18.419 per share the share price on 8 January 2019.
There is no remuneration in the form of deferred share The Chairman does not receive 7.
The Group made a disclosure of 50% share price depreciation at the on-target opportunity for illustrative purposes.
The calculations were based on the share price decreasing from US$ 18.419 per share the share price on 8 January 2019. salary or discretionary deferred shares, pension contributions, Committee fees.
For long-term incentive awards, disclosure of the value of the award in the event of a 50% share price appreciation is required by the Companies Miscellaneous Reporting benefits or any variable or performance-linked remuneration The fees paid to each Regulations 2018.
Such disclosure is not required for short-term incentive awards, such as those made by the Group, where performance measures are limited to one year, or incentives.
Non-Executive Director will nor is it required for salary compensation in the form of shares.
The reason for this is that an increase in the value of the deferred shares resulting from share price appreciation Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable be disclosed in the relevant in the period through to the vesting date is not considered to constitute remuneration for the purposes of the regulations.
However, the Group has decided to voluntarily disclose information showing the value of a 50% increase in the share price for investor information.
business expenses, including travel and accommodation, reporting years Annual Report.
which are incurred in the course of carrying out duties under their letters of appointment, on provision of valid receipts.
Policy on the appointment of external hires and internal appointments Any new Executive Director appointed to the Board would be paid no more than the Remuneration Committee considers reasonably necessary to attract a candidate with the relevant skills and experience.
His or her maximum remuneration Service agreements and policy on payments for loss of office for our Directors package would comprise the components described in the Policy table above.
The Remuneration Committee may, at its At the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gachechiladze is the sole Executive Director of the Company.
Mr Gachechiladze sole discretion and taking into account the role assumed by the new Executive Director, vary the amount of any component has a service agreement with an effective date of 28 January 2019 with BOGG for an indefinite term subject to annual in the package up to the limits set out in the Policy table above in relation to new Executive Directors.
This discretion will re-election at the AGM which is terminable by either party on four months notice unless for cause where notice served only be exercised to the extent required to facilitate the recruitment of the particular individual.
In addition, the terms and by BOGG shall have immediate effect.
conditions attaching to any component of the remuneration might be varied insofar as the Remuneration Committee considers it necessary or desirable to do so in all the circumstances.
Mr Gachechiladze also has a service agreement with JSC Bank of Georgia with an effective date of 28 January 2019 for an employment term of five years which is terminable by the Company with immediate effect and by the Executive on In addition to the components and outside of the limits set out in the Policy table, the Remuneration Committee may also not less than four months notice.
decide to provide to an incoming Executive Director: Both documents are available for inspection by shareholders at BOGGs registered office.
138 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 139 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued The Groups policy towards exit payments allows for a variety of circumstances whereby an Executive Director may leave There are also garden leave provisions and non-compete provisions which may apply up to six months after termination the business.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to determine exit payments other than those set out below, of the service agreement and during which the Executive Director would be paid salary including cash salary and where appropriate and reasonable in the circumstances to do so, including where an Executive Director leaves by mutual deferred share salary but not bonuses i. e. discretionary deferred shares.
The Remuneration Committee may decide to pay some or all of the Executive Directors legal fees in relation to the termination.
In all circumstances, the Remuneration Committee does not intend to reward failure and will make decisions 3 Termination of Non-Executive Directors appointments based on the individual circumstances.
The Remuneration Committees objective is that any such agreements are determined Each Non-Executive Director is required to submit himself or herself for annual re-election at the AGM.
The letters of on an individual basis and are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders at the time.
appointment for Non-Executive Directors provide for a one-month notice period although the Group may terminate the appointment with immediate effect without notice or pay in lieu of notice if the Non-Executive Director has The provisions in section 1 and 2 below summarise the termination and payments for loss of office provisions committed any serious breach or non-observance of his or her obligations to the Group, is guilty of fraud or dishonesty, pursuant to Mr Gachechiladzes service agreement with BOGG and the Bank respectively.
The Remuneration brings the Company or him herself into disrepute or is disqualified as acting as a Non-Executive Director, among other Committee retains the discretion to apply different notice, termination and payment for loss of office provisions circumstances.
Upon termination, the only remuneration a Non-Executive Director is entitled to is accrued fees as at the to incoming Executive Directors.
date of termination together with reimbursement of properly incurred expenses incurred prior to the termination date.
1 Termination of BOGG PLC service agreement Consideration of shareholder views Where the service agreement is to be terminated on notice, BOGG may put Mr Gachechiladze on garden leave and The Remuneration Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on all aspects of continue to pay his cash salary under the BOGG service contract provided that any accrued and unused holiday remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to regularly and actively engage with shareholders and shareholder entitlement shall be deemed to be taken during the garden leave period.
BOGG may terminate Mr Gachechiladzes representative bodies, seeking views which will be considered when making decisions about the remuneration employment early with immediate effect and without notice or pay in lieu of notice in the case of, among other framework.
The Remuneration Committee consulted its major shareholders on the proposed Policy with letters, followcircumstances, his dishonesty, gross misconduct, gross incompetence, conviction of an offence other than trafficup-calls and the offer of face-to-face meetings in early 2019.
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for the feedback related where a non-custodial penalty is imposed or becoming of unsound mind.
BOGG may also terminate the and the time taken to consider the Remuneration Committees proposals.
agreement with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice, in which case the payment in lieu of notice shall be of his basic salary only.
Annual report on remuneration 2 Termination of Bank service agreement The Remuneration Committee and its advisors The Remuneration Committee is principally responsible to the Board for establishing a remuneration policy for the Termination reason Separation payments Vesting and lapse of awards Executive Directors, Chairman and designated members of the Executive Management Team that rewards fairly and Termination by the Bank for cause.
Accrued but not yet paid: salary, Any unvested awarded deferred share responsibly and is designed to support the Companys strategy and promote its long-term sustainable success.
The dividends or equivalent amounts, salary and discretionary deferred shares Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference were updated in December 2018 to reflect the requirements of benefits and expenses.
as at the date when the Executive Director the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and are available on our website at https: www.
com ceases to be an Executive Director shall governance documents.
lapse unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Under these new Terms of Reference, the Remuneration Committee will take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee will also oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures Termination by the Bank As above but with a leaving allowance Any unvested awarded deferred share throughout the Group.
and severance payment constituting salary and discretionary deferred shares the immediate monetary value of as at the date when the Executive Director The Remuneration Committee is comprised of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Al Breach serves as Chairman: no less than four months salary.
ceases to be an Executive Director shall Neil Janin: Tamaz Georgadze: and Cecil Quillen.
The members attendance is shown in the Board and Committee continue to vest in the normal way during meetings attendance table on page 106. the respective vesting period s. Termination by the Chief Executive As per termination of the Bank Any unvested awarded deferred share In addition to the formal meetings held during the year, the Remuneration Committee participated in various discussions Officer for good reason.
salary and discretionary deferred shares by telephone outside of these meetings.
Other attendees at Remuneration Committee meetings who provided advice shall vest immediately.
or assistance to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters from time to time included the CEO, the Termination by the Chief Executive Upon serving four months written Any unvested awarded deferred share other Board members and UK General Counsel.
Attendees at Remuneration Committee meetings do not participate Officer without good reason.
notice, as per termination of the salary and discretionary deferred shares in discussions or decisions related to their own remuneration.
as at the date when the Executive ceases to be an Executive Director shall lapse The Remuneration Committee received additional advice on compliance from Baker & McKenzie LLP, the Groups legal unless the Remuneration Committee advisors.
The Remuneration Committee is of the view that the advice received from Baker & McKenzie LLP is objective determines otherwise.
In addition to the vesting and lapse provisions above, in certain circumstances, including if the Executive Director Shareholder context terminates by reason of death or there is a change of control, unvested deferred share salary and discretionary deferred The Group has not held an Annual General Meeting since listing and therefore there are no voting results on which shares shall vest immediately subject to NBG requirements otherwise.
If the Executive Director is not offered a new to report.
Details of the remuneration-related voting will be reported on in the 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
service contract upon substantially the same terms or continued Board membership at the end of his or her service contract or the Executive Director terminates due to injury, disability, redundancy or retirement, unvested deferred share salary and discretionary deferred shares will continue to vest in the normal way during the respective vesting period s. 140 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 141 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Financial measures Single total figure of remuneration for the sole Executive Director audited The table below sets out the remuneration earned by the Companys sole Executive Director during 2018, Kaha Key Performance Indicator 2018 Target 2018 Performance Committee evaluation Kiknavelidze, in respect of his employment with the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
For 2018, 90% Return on average equity 20% 26.1% Exceeded expectations of Mr Kiknavelidzes compensation as set out in the table below is in the form of deferred shares that vest in tranches, Total Banking Business loan book growth 20% 21.4% Exceeded expectations with vesting periods of up to four years.
Net Interest Margin c. 7% 6.5% Close to target, noting the performance Mr Kiknavelidzes compensation includes remuneration both pre and post the Demerger of BGEO Group PLC.
was largely affected by external factors Discretionary Cost Income 37% 36.7% On target share mid term Cash salary Deferred share Total salary remuneration Taxable Benefits Pension Dividend Total 1 2 3 4 5 6 US$ salary US$ US$ US$ US$ benefits equivalents US$ target 35% 2018 295,000 1,483,800 1,778,800 1,349,985 2,584 1,906 6,278 3,139,552 Dividend payout ratio 25-40% 30% On target Cost of risk 2.0% 1.6% On target Notes: 1.
Expressed in US Dollars but paid in British Pounds and Lari, as applicable, converted into the respective currency as at the date of payment.
Accordingly, there may be NPL coverage ratio 92.7% 90.5% Performance was affected by IFRS 9 and variations in the numbers above and those provided in the accounts.
The figures show the value of the BOGG shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of 2018.
For 2018, the award was 60,000 BOGG shares.
A new service agreement with Mr Kiknavelidze came into effect upon listing on 21 May 2018, but such price is calculated from date of Demerger on 29 May 2018 given the change in share price upon Demerger.
For 2018, the value of the deferred share salary payable is calculated as follows: the share price used is at the date of Demerger, being US$ 24.731 per share the official share price of GBP 18.638 per share converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.3269 being the official exchange rate published The above are financial measures that were set pre-Demerger.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee took into by the Bank of England on the same date.
Under the current deferred share programme, the option awards in respect of deferred share salary are formally granted at the consideration Mr Kiknavelidzes key non-financial accomplishments in 2018 which included: beginning of the year following the year to which the award relates the work year even though the number of deferred salary shares is fixed in the contract.
The terms successful launch of project Lean, which aims to transform and optimise the operations in service centres, processes and conditions applying to deferred share salary follow the model of the BGEO Group PLC Policy available in the BGEO Group Annual Report 2017s Directors Remuneration Report at https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
and functions of the Bank: 3.
The figures show the value of BOGG shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of bonus awards in the relevant year.
For significant contribution towards the Companys digitalisation and enhancement of product delivery effectiveness 2018, options were awarded over 68,000 BOGG shares.
The discretionary remuneration in respect of 2018 is deferred and vests over three years in equal amounts in each of and efficiency project: and the second, third and fourth years following the work year.
The value was calculated by reference to the closing share price on 22 January 2019 the day of the meeting at which the award was determined which was US$ 19.853 based on the official share price of GBP 15.322 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.2957, being Bank of Georgia was named the Bank of the Year 2018 in Central and Eastern Europe by The Banker.
the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The 2018 awards are subject to the leaver provisions described in the BGEO Group Policy as referenced in 2. above.
The means of determining the number of shares underlying this remuneration and the terms and conditions are described in the BGEO Group Policy as referenced in 2. above.
2018 business highlights included: The basis for determining Mr Kiknavelidzes 2018 discretionary award is described on the next two pages.
outstanding profitability and balance sheet growth momentum, supported by strong capital and liquidity positions: 4.
The figures show the gross taxable value of health, life and personal accident insurance.
continuous solid growth across business lines: and 5.
The figures show the aggregate employer contributions for the relevant years into the Groups defined contribution pension scheme.
Under the Groups defined contribution pension scheme, normal retirement age is 65. delivery and further developments in digitalisation strategy.
The figure shows the dividend value paid in respect of nil-cost options exercised in the relevant year.
Mr Kiknavelidze was reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, on provision of valid receipts.
Mr Kiknavelidzes performance met or exceeded all KPIs against most metrics.
The only targets not met were in respect 8.
No money or other assets are received or receivable by Mr Kiknavelidze in respect of a period of more than one financial year, where final vesting is determined by reference to achievement of performance measures or targets relating to the relevant period.
of net interest margin and NPL coverage ratio, which were largely attributable to external factors.
In particular, it was noted that the halting of customer loans by the NBG affected the NIM, and the NPL coverage ratio was affected by The following table sets out details of total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer, Mr Kiknavelidze, for the IFRS 9 and other methodology changes.
year ended 31 December 2018 and his discretionary compensation as a percentage of maximum opportunity.
As the Company listed during 2018, there is no prior year comparator which can be shown.
As noted above, the CEOs maximum opportunity in relation to the award of discretionary deferred shares is calculated as a percentage of total salary, which is comprised of both cash salary and deferred salary shares.
When calculating 2018 the maximum discretionary deferred share opportunity, the Remuneration Committee used its discretion by using Single total figure of remuneration US$ 3,139,552 the number of deferred salary shares for the share salary element as opposed to the value of the deferred share Discretionary compensation as a percentage of maximum opportunity % 90.8% salary at any particular time, then adding the cash salary element converted into shares as normal.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee also decided that such maximum opportunity with respect to the number of shares Note: Maximum opportunity is 100% of total salary cash salary and deferred share salary as set out in the section below.
derived from to the cash salary be capped at the lower of the equivalent number of shares using as a reference date i the share price on the date of entry into or effective date, of an Executive Directors service contract or in this case the date of the Demerger, 29 May 2018 and ii the most recent closing share price available at the time and date of the Remuneration Committee meeting at which the award is determined.
The Remuneration Committee used this Basis for determining Mr Kiknavelidzes discretionary deferred share remuneration discretion as it was appropriate to avoid awarding excessive numbers of shares at a point when the Groups share price in respect of 2018 may be low.
Mr Kiknavelidzes KPIs included both objective and non-tangible components.
The objective elements largely track the Groups KPIs as he is expected to deliver on the Groups strategy, but the KPIs also include non-tangible factors such as For 2018, when the above external factors were excluded, the Remuneration Committee found that Mr Kiknavelidzes strategy development and implementation, as well as corporate and social responsibility.
The Remuneration Committee performance was strong.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee determined that Mr Kiknavelidze should be exercised its discretion when awarding discretionary share remuneration.
awarded discretionary deferred share remuneration at 90.8% of maximum opportunity maximum opportunity in this case being calculated on the basis outlined above whereby the Remuneration Committee used the share price The following table sets out the objective KPIs set for the CEO of the Bank ahead of the Demerger as well as on the date of the Remuneration Committees meeting to calculate the number of shares awarded to reflect the cash Mr Kiknavelidzes performance against them.
salary component, plus the number of deferred share salary as listed in the table above, so as a total of 74,859 shares.
The Remuneration Committee therefore agreed to award Mr Kiknavelidze 68,000 shares.
142 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 143 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Percentage change in remuneration of CEO Total Shareholder Return As the Company listed during 2018, there is no disclosure of remuneration relating to prior years.
Accordingly, this report Bank of Georgia Group PLC TSR vs.
The FTSE indices TSR does not set out the percentage change in remuneration as there is no prior year comparator which can be shown.
The following graph compares the Total Shareholder Return TSR of Bank of Georgia Group PLC with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for the period since BOGGs listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE on 21 May 2018 Details of fixed and discretionary contingent deferred share remuneration granted until 31 December 2018. during 2018 Mr Kiknavelidze was granted 35,000 nil-cost options deferred share salary and 33,500 nil-cost options discretionary 450 deferred shares remuneration over BGEO Group PLC shares in respect of 2017 work year.
400 Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited 350 The table below sets out the remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director in 2018.
The Group has only been 300 publicly listed since 21 May 2018.
However, a number of Non-Executive Directors served as Non-Executive Directors of 250 BGEO Group PLC prior to the Demerger and the remuneration for the 2018 FY period includes remuneration for pre and post Demerger including JSC Bank of Georgia fees for the whole period.
The information provided does not include any 200 May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec directors of BGEO Group PLC who subsequent to the Demerger became a Director of Georgia Capital PLC.
2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Bank of Georgia JSC Bank of Georgia BGEO Limited Total fees Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Bank of Georgia FTSE 250 Group PLC fees US$ fees US$ fees US$ US$ 2018 2018 2018 2018 Source: Thompson Reuters Datastream.
Neil Janin 63,264 210,313 40,323 313,900 Alasdair Breach 37,851 94,973 24,126 156,950 Relative importance of spend on pay Tamaz Georgadze 40,735 102,384 24,235 167,354 The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees.
Includes BGEO Group PLC pre-demerger and BOGG Group PLC post-demerger.
TOTAL 302,470 675,389 134,585 1,112,444 Directors interests in shares audited Notes: The following table sets forth the respective holdings of the Companys shares of each Director as at 31 December 2018.
Neil Janin, Alasdair Breach, Tamaz Georgadze, Hannah Loikkanen and Jonathan Muir were appointed to the Board and its Committees on 24 February 2018.
They also served as Non-Executive Directors of BGEO Group PLC until BOGG listed on 21 May 2018.
The BGEO Group PLC Non-Executive Directors waived their entitlement to the Number of vested but Number of unvested and Bank of Georgia Group PLC fees up until the listing date, receiving BGEO Group PLC fees to that date.
unexercised BOGG shares unexercised BOGG shares 2.
Cecil Quillen was appointed as a member of the Board on 24 February 2018 and to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on the same dates.
held under option through held under option through 3.
Vronique McCarroll and Andreas Wolf were appointed as members of the Board on 1 October 2018 and to the Risk and Nomination Committees on the same date.
deferred share salary and deferred share salary and 4.
Andreas Wolf was appointed to the Audit on 1 October 2018. discretionary deferred discretionary deferred share compensation all share compensation all 5.
Tamaz Georgadze stepped down from the Audit Committee on 1 October 2018.
Number of BOGG nil-cost options with no nil-cost options with no Total number of shares held directly performance conditions performance conditions interests in BOGG shares In 2018, no payments were made to past Directors, nor payments were made for loss of office.
1 Neil Janin 39,880 N A N A 39,880 2 Alasdair Breach 24,000 N A N A 24,000 Previous Directors Tamaz Georgadze 5,000 N A N A 5,000 Prior to the Demerger Levan Dadiani and Levan Kulijanishvili were directors of BOGG until 24 February 2018.
3 Mr Dadiani and Mr Kulijanishvili did not receive remuneration from BOGG.
Kaha Kiknavelidze 45,869 84,501 130,370 Hanna Loikkanen 800 N A N A 800 Vronique McCarroll N A N A Jonathan Muir N A N A Cecil Quillen N A N A Andreas Wolf N A N A Notes: 1.
At 2018 year-end, NeilCo Ltd, a company wholly owned by Mr Janin, also held 7,000 BOGG shares.
At 2018 year-end, Gemstock Fund, which Mr Breach manages, also held 20,000 BOGG shares.
This is not included in the table above.
In March 2018 Mr Kiknavelidze exercised 5,665 BGEO Group PLC shares, of which 1,133 were withheld to satisfy tax liabilities.
The market price of BGEO Group plc shares as at the exercise date was 47.702 US Dollar the official share price of GBP 34.360 per share converted into US Dollar using an exchange rate of 1.3883.
In June 2018 Mr Kiknavelidze exercised 84,500 Georgia Capital PLC shares, of which 16,900 were withheld to satisfy tax liabilities.
The market price of Georgia Capital plc shares as at the exercise date was 14.901 US Dollar the official share price of GBP 11.124 per share converted into US Dollar using an exchange rate of 1.3395.
In January 2019, Mr Kiknavelidze was granted 68,000 nil cost options in respect of discretionary deferred salary shares and 60,000 nil cost options in respect of deferred salary shares for the 2018 work year pursuant to the executive equity compensation plan.
This is not included in the table above, which is as at 31 December 2018.
144 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 145 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued As at 31 December 2018, Mr Kiknavelidzes vested and unvested shareholding was 130,370 BOGG shares, representing For Archil Gachechiladze approximately 0.3% of the share capital of BOGG.
The vesting period for the majority of unvested shares exceeds Fixed pay three years.
None of Mr Kiknavelidzes connected persons have any interests in the shares of the Company.
Total cash salary US$ 341,616 The Policy is heavily weighted towards remuneration in deferred salary shares and discretionary compensation in combined BOGG and Bank deferred shares.
The Policy and the long vesting periods, even for salary shares, naturally results in the Executive Director Total deferred share salary US$ 1,275,522 and our Executive Management team holding a significant number of unvested shares and achieves a delay between combined BOGG and Bank performance and vesting.
We believe these results are consistent with the principles of the Investment Management Association.
However to further strengthen this, under the new proposed Policy, the Company is introducing formal Pension The Executive Director and the Company each contribute 2% and the Georgian guidelines on shareholding and on post-employment shareholding.
Government contributes between 0-2% of total remuneration from the Bank, all in line with Georgian legislation and the pension arrangements for the Georgian workforce.
The Group does not require Non-Executive Directors to hold a specified number of shares in Bank of Georgia Group.
Benefits Details of the benefits received by Executive Directors are on page 134.
Notwithstanding this, some Non-Executive Directors have chosen to become shareholders.
There have been no changes in the Non-Executive Directors Bank of Georgia Group shareholdings since the date of their appointment to the Board further to those reported above.
There are circumstances in which unvested deferred shares may lapse, and narrow circumstances in which such shares may vest immediately i. e. when an Executive Directors employment is terminated without Cause and these are set out in the Policy.
Details of Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment The Company has entered into letters of appointment with each Non-Executive Director.
The letters of appointment require 2019 Discretionary deferred share remuneration Non-Executive Directors to provide one months notice prior to termination.
The letters of appointment for the majority of current Non-Executive Directors are effective from 24 February 2018, with Vronique McCarroll and Andreas Wolfs letters Opportunity Maximum is 100% of total salary total cash salary and total deferred share salary of appointment being effective from 1 October 2018.
Each Non-Executive Director is put forward for election at each Annual as explained in the table and notes to the Policy above.
General Meeting following his or her appointment.
Continuation of a Non-Executive Directors employment is conditional on his or her continued satisfactory performance and re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
Deferral terms The Remuneration Committee will determine whether an award is merited based on an Executive Directors achievement of the KPIs set for the work year and the performance A succession plan adopted by the Board provides for a tenure of six years on the Bank of Georgia Group Board.
Upon of the Group during the work year.
If Mr Gachechiladze is awarded discretionary deferred the expiry of such six-year tenure, the Board will consider if the appointment of the relevant Non-Executive Director will shares, the award will vest 40% in the third and 60% in fourth year following the work generally cease at the next upcoming Annual General Meeting.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board determines year.
Each tranche will be subject to a further holding period of two years.
Upon vesting, that, in order to maintain the balance of appropriate skills and experience required for the Board, it is important to retain Mr Gachechiladze will receive in addition to the vested shares cash payments equal to a Non-Executive Director on the Board beyond the relevant six-year period, the Board may offer the Non-Executive the dividends paid if any on the underlying shares between the date the award was Director a letter of appointment for an additional one-year term.
Such a one-year re-appointment may be renewed made and the vesting date.
no more than two times, with the effect that the usual six-year tenure may be extended to a maximum of nine years Performance measures Archil Gachechiladze was appointed as the Groups CEO and Executive Director on if circumstances were to warrant such extension.
The Remuneration Committee has set his KPIs for 2019, which will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and by the Board as appropriate throughout Remuneration Committee effectiveness review the year, subject to the terms of the Policy.
An internal effectiveness review was conducted by the Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation addressed the structure and effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee and the performance evaluation process.
The effectiveness ROAE as targeted evaluation concluded that the Remuneration Committee operates and performs effectively.
NPS as targeted Capital adequacy as required and further targeted Our priorities for 2019 include the implementation of the new Directors Remuneration Policy subject to its approval Managing the Bank within the agreed risk tolerance by shareholders and ensuring that the structure for senior management and other employees remains appropriate Employee engagement and culture while enhancing long-term shareholder value.
Developing corporate social responsibility in accordance with the Groups mission Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2019 See page 136 for malus and clawback and page 140 for termination of the Bank service agreement for lapse provisions Details of how the revised Policy will be implemented for the 2019 financial year if approved by shareholders at the natural malus.
2019 Annual General Meeting are set out below.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the date of the 2019 Annual General Meeting and is intended to apply until the date of Annual General Meeting in 2022.
146 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 147 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the We have further responsibility for safeguarding the assets For Non-Executive Directors Annual Report and the consolidated and separate of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable The table below shows the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors for 2019.
Non-Executive Directors fees are financial statements in accordance with applicable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other determined by the Board.
Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base cash fee The fee for the Board is competitive Cash payment on The amount of remuneration may be Company law requires us to prepare financial statements We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity enough to attract and retain quarterly basis.
reviewed from time to time by the Board.
As required, we have prepared of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing individuals.
the accompanying consolidated and separate statements the preparation and dissemination of financial statements The fees may also be amended and varied in accordance with International Financial Reporting may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Chairman receives a fee which if there are genuinely unforeseen and Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union reflects the extra time committed exceptional circumstances which necessitate and applicable law.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and responsibility.
such review and in such circumstances any the consolidated and separate financial statements, significant increase shall be the minimum We must not approve the accompanying consolidated prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the The Senior Independent Nonreasonably required.
and separate financial statements unless we are satisfied European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, Executive Director receives a higher that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the base fee which reflects the extra The maximum aggregate BOGG PLC fees of the Group and the Bank of Georgia Group PLC Company and the Group taken as a whole: time and responsibility.
for all Non-Executive Directors which may be the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group the Strategic Report and Directors Report contained paid by BOGG PLC is GBP 750,000, which and the Company for that period.
in this Annual Report include a fair review of the is consistent with BOGG PLCs Articles of development and performance of the business and the Association.
In preparing the accompanying consolidated and separate position of the Company and the Group, together with financial statements, we are required to: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Cash fee for Additional fee to compensate for Cash payment on The amount of remuneration for the select suitable accounting policies and then apply that it faces.
each Committee additional time spent discharging quarterly basis.
membership may be reviewed from time them consistently: membership Committee duties.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, and prudent: taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable The Chairman does not receive state whether they have been prepared in accordance and gives shareholders the information needed to assess Committee fees.
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject the Groups position and performance, business model to any material departures disclosed and explained and strategy.
in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern By order of the Board basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Neil Janin Archil Gachechiladze Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Chairman CEO We are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting 27 March 2019 27 March 2019 Alasdair Breach records that are sufficient to show and explain the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Companys and the Groups transactions, to disclose with 27 March 2019 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and to enable us to ensure that the consolidated and separate financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated and separate financial statements, Article4 of the IAS Regulation.
148 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 149 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Bank of Georgia Group PLC is permitted to make Save as disclosed above for proportional voting, none Strategic Report Share capital and rights attaching market purchases of its own shares provided it is duly of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 101 was approved by to the shares authorised by its members in a general meeting and to control of Bank of Georgia Group PLC.
the Board of Directors on 27 March 2019 and signed on its Details of the movements in share capital during the subject to and in accordance with section 701 of the behalf by Archil Gachechiladze.
year are provided in Note 20 to the consolidated financial Companies Act 2006.
Authority was given by conditional There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: statements on pages 244 to 245 of this Annual Report.
special resolution at a general meeting of the Company on certain restrictions which may from time to time be Management Report 26 March 2018 for the Group to purchase up to 4,916,943 imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report As at the date of this Annual Report there was a single shares approximately 10% of the Groups shares up to to insider dealing or pursuant to the Companys Inside on pages 1 to 101 form the Management Report for the class of 49,169,428 ordinary shares of one pence each a maximum price for each share being the higher of i Information Disclosure Policy: basis of DTR 4.1.
5 R. in issue, each with one vote.
The rights and obligations 105% of the average of the middle-market price of an pursuant to the Companys Securities Dealing Policy and attaching to the Bank of Georgia Groups ordinary shares ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Code, whereby the Directors and designated employees are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of Information contained elsewhere in the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately require approval to deal in Bank of Georgia Group PLCs ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable Annual Report preceding the day on which such ordinary share is shares or cannot deal at certain times: and law and the Companys Articles of Association, to: Information required to be included in this Directors contracted to be purchased: and ii an amount equal where a person with an interest in the Companys shares have shareholder documents made available to them Report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report as to the higher of the price of the last independent trade has been served with a disclosure notice and including notice of any general meeting: indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this of shares and the highest current independent purchase has failed to provide the Bank of Georgia Group PLC attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general report by reference: bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London with information concerning interests in those shares.
meetings, either in person or by proxy: and Stock Exchange Trading System at the time the purchase Information Location in Annual Report participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Bank of Georgia Group PLC is not aware of any is carried out.
This authority will expire at the conclusion Future developments Pages 4 to 101 arrangements between shareholders that may result in of the Companys AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, the close of As disclosed in the Companys prospectus dated 26 March restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights, Going concern statement Page 68 business on 23 June 2019.
2018 Prospectus, for such time as JSC Georgia Capital or the exercise of voting rights.
Viability statement Page 68 or its concert parties holding in the Company is greater A renewal of the authority to make market purchases than 9.99% of the voting rights exercisable at a general Risk management Pages 48 to 59 will be sought from shareholders at each AGM of the Results and dividends meeting, JSC Georgia Capital will exercise its voting Principal risks and uncertainties Pages 60 to 67 Company.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be made The Group made a profit from continued operations rights at general meetings of the Company in accordance within guidelines established from time to time by the Directors Governance Statement Page 102 before taxation of GEL 437.5 million.
The Groups profit with the votes cast by all other Company shareholders Board.
Any purchase of ordinary shares would be made from continued operations after taxation for the year was other than for an Excluded Resolution, as such term The Board of Directors Pages 111 to 114 only out of the available cash resources of the Company.
The Groups total profit after taxation is defined in the Articles of Association.
This is known Nomination Committee Report Pages 117 to 120 ordinary shares purchased by the Company may be held including discontinued for the year was GEL488.8million.
as the proportional voting mechanism which operates, in treasury or cancelled.
The Company had no Ordinary Audit Committee Report Pages 121 to 125 in accordance with the terms in the Companys Articles Shares held in treasury as at 27 March 2019.
Bank of Georgia Group PLC may by ordinary resolution of Association, as follows: Risk Committee Report Pages 126 to 128 declare dividends provided that no such dividend shall on a resolution proposed to a general meeting, Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 73 to 74 At a general meeting of the Bank of Georgia Group PLC exceed the amount recommended by the Companys all shareholders of the Company other than JSC on 26 March 2018, the Directors were given the power Employee matters Pages 80 to 83 Directors.
The Directors may also pay such interim Georgia Capital and its concert parties will be entitled a to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of dividends as appear to be justified by the profits of the to vote their shares at their discretion on a poll vote Environmental matters Pages 71 to 74 GBP 163,898.09 representing approximately one third Group available for distribution.
each an Initial Vote : and Share capital Note 20 pages of the Groups issued share capital after the Demerger following the closing of the Initial Vote s, the poll 244 and 245 process was completed, and b to allot equity securities In accordance with the Dividend Policy set out in the will as soon as possible thereafter reopen for the sole up to an aggregate nominal amount of GBP 163,898.09, Information on the Groups financial Note 27 pages Companys prospectus dated 26 March 2018, the Company purpose of enabling the shares held by JSC Georgia in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i risk management objectives and 254 to 269 will continue the dividend policy previously disclosed by Capital or its concert parties to be voted in each case to holders of shares in proportion as nearly as may be policies, and its exposure to credit BGEO Group PLC.
Therefore, the Companys Dividend proportionally calculated to two decimal places in practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders risk, foreign currency risk and financial Policy is a targeted payout of 25-40% of the Companys accordance with the votes cast on each resolution on of other equity securities as required by the rights of instruments profits on an annual basis.
Therefore, the Board intends to an Initial Vote the Proportional Voting Mechanism.
those securities or, if the Directors consider it necessary, recommend a final dividend for 2018 of GEL 2.55 per share.
as permitted by the rights of those securities, such Irrespective of the percentage of shares voted on any amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount Articles of Association On 9 July 2018, Bank of Georgia Group PLC announced Initial Vote, all shares held by JSC Georgia Capital or of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert The Articles of Association of the Bank of the Georgia an interim dividend of GEL 2.44 per share in respect of its concert parties will be voted in accordance with the any securities into shares granted under paragraph a, Group PLC the Company or Bank of Georgia Group the period ended 30 June 2018.
This was in accordance Proportional Voting Mechanism.
As at 27 March 2019, and subject to the Directors having the right to make PLC may only be amended by a special resolution at a with previous announcements that the Bank of Georgia JSC Georgia Capital held 9,784,716 Company shares.
such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem general meeting of the shareholders.
The process for the Group PLC would recommend a payment of a dividend in As set out in the Prospectus, the number of shares held necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, appointment and removal of Directors is included in our an aggregate amount of approximately GEL 120 million by JSC Georgia Capital impacts the Effective Rule 9 fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory Articles of Association.
The Bank of Georgia Group Articles following the Demerger.
Threshold applicable to the Company.
As at 27 March or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory.
of Association are available on the BOGG website: 2019 the number of shares required to reach the effective These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
com storage documents rule 9 threshold is 11,815,413, representing 24.03% of AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business on 23 June Articles of Association.
the Companys total issued share capital.
2019 and approval will be sought at that meeting to renew a similar authority for a further year.
150 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 151 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Directors Report continued As Bank of Georgia Group PLC is a holding company, the Non-Executive Directors in 2018 pursuant to their letters Issue of US$ 100 million Additional Tier 1 Capital Notes Code of Conduct and ethics Group relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily of appointment are shown on page 144.
The fees paid to On 21 March 2019 JSC Bank of Georgia successfully priced The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to if any and contractually permissible payments from our sole Executive Director in 2018 pursuant to his service inaugural US$ 100 million 11.125% offering of Additional the lawful and ethical conduct of the business, supported its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet agreements with the Group are shown on page 142.
Tier 1 Capital Perpetual Subordinated Notes callable after by the Group core values.
The Code of Conduct has been its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders.
5.25 years and on every subsequent interest payment communicated to all Directors and employees, all of whom date, subject to prior consent of the National Bank of are expected to observe high standards of integrity and Directors interests Georgia the Notes.
fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators Equity-Settled Option Plan ESOP The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of in the communities in which the Group operates.
The Bank of Georgia Group operates two employee Bank of Georgia Group PLC as at 31 December 2018 are Please also see page 283, Note 32 regarding Events After Our Code of Conduct is available on our website: benefit trusts EBT, one for Executive Management, shown on page 145 together with any changes in those the Reporting Period in the Financial Statements.
com storage documents and the other for employees below the executive level interests between the financial year-end and the date on Code of Conduct and Ethics.
the ESOPs, which hold ordinary shares on trust for the which this Directors Report was approved by the Board benefit of employees and former employees of the Group, on page 146.
Statement of disclosure of information and their dependents, and which is used in conjunction to the auditor Independent auditor with the Groups employee share schemes.
Whilst ordinary Indemnity We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no A resolution to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor shares are held in the EBT, the voting rights in respect Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former relevant audit information of which the Bank of Georgia of Bank of Georgia Group PLC will be put to shareholders of these ordinary shares may be exercised by the trustees Director or other officer of the Company other than Groups auditor is unaware and we have taken all steps at the upcoming AGM.
any person engaged by the Company as auditor shall be that we reasonably believe should be taken as Directors indemnified by the Bank of Georgia Group PLC against in order to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit Major interests in shares In accordance with the ESOP documentation, Sanne any liability in relation to Bank of Georgia Group PLC, information and to establish that the Bank of Georgia The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of Fiduciary Services Limited has waived its right to other than broadly any liability to the Company or a Groups statutory auditor is aware of such information.
more than 3% as of 31 December 2018. receive any dividends.
This waiver will remain in place member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
indefinitely, unless otherwise instructed by the Company.
As of 31 December 2018 In addition, the Company has put in place Directors Information to be disclosed in accordance The Company has committed that new shares issued in Number of % of and officers indemnity insurance.
Shareholder voting rights voting rights with the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R satisfaction of share compensation from the time of the The following information required to be disclosed in terms of JSC Georgia Capital 9,784,716 19.90 Companys listing on the premium segment of the LSE Related party disclosures Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is not applicable unless stated otherwise: will not exceed 10% of Bank of Georgia Groups ordinary Harding Loevner LP 2,291,249 4.66 Details of related party disclosures are set out in Note 30 the amount of interest capitalised during the period share capital over any ten-year period.
to the consolidated financial statements on page 281 JP Morgan Asset Management 1,481,494 3.01 under review and details of any related tax relief: of this Annual Report.
information in relation to the publication of unaudited Powers of Directors financial information: The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company The table below shows the changes in voting rights Significant agreements any arrangements under which a Director has subject to applicable legislation and regulations and Bank which have been notified to the Company for the period The Bank of Georgia Group is not party to any significant waived emoluments, or agreed to waive any future of Georgia Groups Articles of Association.
1 January 2019 up to and including 27 March 2019: agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a emoluments, from the Group: change of control of the Company.
The Bank of Georgia details of any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for As of 27 March 2019 Conflicts of interest Group is not aware of any agreements between holders cash by the Group: Number of In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors Shareholder voting rights % of voting rights of its ordinary shares that may result in restrictions on - any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash have adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure the transfer of its ordinary shares or on voting rights.
by the Group or by any unlisted major subsidiary Norges Bank 1,497,227 3.05 and authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, undertaking: Standard Life Aberdeen PLC 2,466,293 5.02 and these have been followed during 2018.
The Companys - parent participation in a placing by a listed Presence outside of Georgia Articles of Association also contain provisions to allow subsidiary: We have additional offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul, the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have - any contract of significance in which a Director Tel Aviv, and Limassol, as well as the BNB Bank in Belarus.
so that a Director is not in breach of his or her duty under changed since the Company was notified.
However, of Bank of Georgia Group is or was materially company law.
notification of any change is not required until the next interested: Employee disclosures notifiable threshold is crossed.
The respective regulatory - any waiver of dividends by a shareholder: and Our disclosures relating to the number of women in senior filings by shareholders are available on the BOGG website: details of any long-term incentive schemes.
Directors renumeration management, employee engagement, and our policies on https: www.
com news regulatory Directors fees are determined by the Remuneration human rights, including employment of disabled persons, and the London Stock Exchange website: https: www.
The Directors Report on pages 150 to 153 was approved Committee from time to time.
The remuneration of are included in the section Employee matters on pages londonstockexchange.
by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2019 and signed on Directors must be in accordance with the Directors 80 to 83. its behalf: Remuneration Policy.
A remuneration policy will be put Post balance sheet events to the shareholders for approval at the 2019 AGM.
In the By order of the Board Political donations As detailed elsewhere in this report, Mr Gachechiladze was meantime, remuneration has been determined following The Group did not make any political donations or appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Georgia the model as approved by shareholders of BGEO Group Link Company Matters Limited expenditure during 2018.
Authority to make political Group on 28 January 2019.
The process underpinning his PLC during the Demerger.
The fees paid to the Group Company Secretary donations and incur political expenditure will be put selection and appointment is detailed in the Nomination 27 March 2019 to shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
152 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 153 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC Opinion In our opinion: Bank of Georgia Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Bank of Georgia Group PLC which comprise: Group consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 consolidated income statement for the year then ended consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Financial related notes 1 to 32 to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies Parent Company separate statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Statements separate statement of changes in equity for the year then ended separate statement of cash flows for the year then ended related notes 1 to 32 to the effect they apply to the Parent Company financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
154 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 155 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Risk Our response to the risk Key observations We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK communicated require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: to the Audit Committee the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 60 to 67 that describe the principal risks and explain how they Allowance for expected credit loss We obtained an understanding, performed Although the loan loss are being managed or mitigated: walkthroughs and tested the design and allowance is by nature the Directors confirmation set out on page 124 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment Expected credit loss allowance GEL 313.5m, operating effectiveness of key controls across highly judgmental, based of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 2017: GEL 279.3m the processes relevant to the ECL.
This on the results of our solvency or liquidity: included the controls over, data accuracy and audit procedures, we the Directors statement set out on page 178 in the financial statements about whether they considered it The allowance for expected credit loss is highly completeness, credit monitoring, allocation concluded that the loan appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any judgmental and changes in assumptions could of borrowers into their respective impairment loss allowance is within material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date have a material impact on reported profits.
stages, individual provisioning and production a reasonable range and of journal entries and disclosures.
properly presented in of approval of the financial statements: On 1 January 2018, a new accounting standard Using our internal IFRS9 specialists, we accordance with IFRS whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with for financial instruments IFRS9 became assessed and challenged the Companys as at 31 December 2018.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or effective, which requires loan impairment based IFRS9 provisioning methodology to determine the Directors explanation set out on page 69 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects on expected credit losses, rather than the that the new accounting standard had been of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their incurred loss model previously required by IAS39.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Using our modelling specialists, we tested and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing The allowance for expected credit loss is the assumptions, inputs and formulae used in attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
calculated using a combination of a collective the ECL model to confirm that the model was provisioning model and specific loan provisions.
consistent with the stated methodology.
This Overview of our audit approach included assessing the appropriateness of the Both collective and specific provisioning depend model design and formulae used, recalculating on a number of assumptions and judgments the PD, LGD and EAD on a sample basis.
Key audit matters Allowance for expected credit loss including: We assessed the appropriateness of Revenue recognition accounting interpretations and modelling the macroeconomic scenarios used by Valuation of investment property assumptions used to build the models for management and tested that they had been calculating the expected credit loss ECL : properly applied in the ECL calculations allocation of loans to stage 1, 2 or 3 based on We tested the completeness and accuracy Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components and credit risk using criteria set in accordance with of key data inputs used in ECL model by audit procedures on specific balances for a further one component.
IFRS9: reconciling loans and advances between the estimation of probability of default PD, loss underlying source systems and the ECL model.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% given default LGD and exposure at default We challenged the criteria used to allocate of Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 94% of Revenue and 94% of Total assets.
EAD, including the valuation of collateral: assets to stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance with inputs and assumptions used to estimate the IFRS 9.
For a sample of loans we independently Materiality Overall Group materiality of GEL 20 million which represents 4% of pre-tax profit adjusted impact of multiple economic scenarios: and assessed whether they had been allocated to for non-recurring items.
measurement of individually assessed the appropriate stage.
provisions, including expected future cash For a sample of stage 3 credit impaired loans flows and the valuation of collateral.
we evaluated the basis on which the allowance was determined and the evidence supporting Key audit matters the management analysis: independently There are also risks over: Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the challenged whether the key assumptions the accuracy and completeness of underlying financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement and inputs used, such as recovery strategies, loan data used in the ECL model: whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: collateral rights and valuations and ranges of the accuracy and adequacy of financial the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
potential outcomes, were appropriate in the statement disclosures.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our borrowers circumstances: and we re-calculated opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
There have been no changes in the key the impairment allowance.
As a consequence of the judgment involved in We verified the appropriate restriction of the audit matters compared to 2017, but the relative significance of each of them has changed as a result of the demerger establishing the allowance, there is a greater risk property pledged as collateral to the Georgian and the introduction of IFRS 9, as indicated in the relevant sections below.
of misstatement in this balance, either by fraud public real estate register and, for real estate or error, including through the potential override collateral where the valuation changed by of controls by management.
more than 10% compared to the prior year and for new real estate collateral, we reviewed The risk has increased in the current year as the details of the valuation and validated a result of the first time application of IFRS 9. the reasonableness of the new value by benchmarking major inputs to publicly available Refer to the Audit Committee Report page market data.
122 : Accounting policies pages 188-194, 201- We assessed the adequacy and 203 and 207-210 : and Note 10 to the financial appropriateness of disclosures for compliance statements with the requirements of IFRS.
156 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 157 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated communicated to the Audit Committee to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We gained an understanding of the revenue Based on the results of Valuation of investment property We evaluated the competence, professional Based on the results of processes and assessed the design and our audit procedures, qualifications and objectivity of the external our audit procedures, Gross revenue GEL 1,687m operating effectiveness of key controls.
we concluded that Investment property of GEL 151m and real estate experts engaged by the Group to prepare we concluded that: 2017: GEL 1,420m We performed substantive testing of revenue revenue for the year classified as held-for-sale of GEL 42m 2017: overviews for various segments of the Georgian The independent transactions including key items testing and ended 31 December 2018 investment property of GEL 354m property market and valuation of certain items valuation reports In applying IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with representative sampling where we agreed has been recognised in of investment property.
obtained by Customers, judgment is required to be exercised transactions to the underlying documentation, accordance with IFRS.
The Group applies the fair value model for its Through reading the market overview reports management by management in determining the point at testing manual and topside adjustments investment property, which largely comprises and the valuation reports and through supported their which it is appropriate to recognise revenue, and cut-off testing by selecting a sample of real estate assets that were previously held as discussion with management and the valuers, assessment of the and in particular the nature of performance transactions either side of year-end.
collateral against loans that have now defaulted.
we obtained an understanding of the objectives valuation of investment obligations and the allocation of the contract For non-automated transactions, we agreed and scope of the experts work, the methods properties being within price to those obligations.
Specific considerations them on a sample basis to supporting Real estate valuations are inherently uncertain and assumptions that they had used and the the market range.
include the timing of recognition of revenue in evidence, including underlying contracts and and subject to an estimation process.
conclusions that they had reached.
The Group has respect of card servicing fees, bundled products cash receipts to determine whether revenue Furthermore, the Groups real estate is located We challenged the methods and assumptions appropriately classified and customer loyalty schemes.
had been recognised in accordance with the primarily in Georgia, where the secondary market used in the valuation reports, including and measured the Groups accounting policies and IFRS.
Although the real estate consideration as to whether there was contrary properties which it The Groups accounting systems are not appropriate, we re-computed revenue and valuations are performed by appropriately market intelligence that had not been taken started to actively configured to allow automated IFRS 15 compared to reported amounts.
The samples qualified valuers, there remains a risk that into account in the appraisers analyses.
market and for accounting for revenue and the adjustments used for this testing were increased to reflect individual assets might be inappropriately valued.
For items that were specifically revalued which sales are to conform to the requirements of IFRS 15 that revenue recognition is a significant risk.
during the period, utilising our real estate highly probable.
We specifically considered the timing of Management has reclassified certain properties valuation specialists we assessed the valuations Valuation of real recognition of revenue in respect of card as Held for Sale HFS reflecting increased performed by the external valuers.
We verified estate presented in These factors mean that there is a greater risk servicing fees, bundled products and customer focus on realisation of the property portfolio.
the input data, the application of the methods Investment properties of misstatement in revenue balances, either by loyalty schemes we analysed the terms Properties on the register at 1 November 2018, and logic as well as the reasoning applied by the and Assets held for fraud or error, including through the potential and conditions of new and existing products, that were either actively marketed through appraisers.
We compared this information to sale as at 31 December override of controls by management.
reconciled these to the accounting data and websites or marketed in private with the help of the publicly available information on norms and 2018 is materially validated the IFRS 15 adjustment calculation.
brokers or personal contacts, were reclassified as benchmarks in the Georgian market.
As a result of the Demerger of Banking and We performed substantive audit procedures HFS on the basis that a sale was highly probable.
We applied the percentage movements shown Investment Businesses of the Group in May over the IFRS 15 adjustments, covering in the market reports by type and location 2018, certain revenue streams where revenue the timing of satisfaction of performance On reclassification to HFS, management applied of real estate where available, to determine recognition followed a significantly more complex obligations, allocation of transaction price to a reduction in value of 1.5% to reflect costs to the overall impact on the value of investment pattern than banking revenue, were transferred each performance obligation and estimation sell, and for assets for which active deals had property.
Consequently, the risk has been of variable consideration amounts, if applicable, been initiated the carrying value was adjusted to We considered the gains and losses on real decreased in the current year.
including analytical procedures, testing of recoverable amount as required by IFRS 5 Nonestate disposed of during the period, noting key items and representative sample testing.
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued that individual gains and losses represented Refer to the Accounting policies page 199 : and We performed analytical procedures for Operations.
a wide range of the carrying value but did not Notes 3, 21, and 22 to the financial statements.
revenue to consider unusual trends that could indicate that the carrying value materially indicate material misstatements, including To support the carrying value of the investment differed from fair value.
monthly fluctuations analysis and analysis properties and held for sale assets, management We obtained the list of assets reclassified of changes in key drivers of revenue.
obtained market overviews for the major as held-for-sale and, for a sample of such We performed journal entry testing in order segments and geographical locations in which items, verified the appropriateness of their to identify and test the risk of misstatement the Group operates from independent external classification as assets held for sale under arising from management override of controls.
They also obtained valuations for certain IFRS5 by inspecting websites and broker We considered whether the presentation specific properties.
reports to determine that a sale was highly and disclosure of revenue in the financial probable.
statements are in accordance with relevant As a result of the Demerger of the Investment We considered whether the presentation accounting standards.
Business, which contained the properties with and disclosure of real estate in the financial more complex valuations, the risk has decreased statements are in accordance with relevant in the current year.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 122 : Accounting policies pages 196 : and Notes 3 and 11 to the financial statements 158 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 159 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC continued An overview of the scope of our audit Audit team structure Tailoring the scope All audit work for the purposes of the Group audit was undertaken by the primary audit team.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK, but since the Group management and operations reside in Georgia, our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial the Group audit team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia, Russia and the statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide CIS.
The UK members of the audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal components of the Group.
There was regular interaction the level of work to be performed at each entity.
between team members in each jurisdiction and the Senior Statutory Auditor and the UK members of the audit team visited Georgia five times during the current years audit.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 22 reporting components of the Group These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the local team members and any issues arising from their work, pre-Demerger: 33, we selected four components covering entities within the UK and Georgia, which represent the as well as meeting with local management.
In addition, the UK members of the team interacted regularly with the principal business units within the Group.
Georgia members of the team where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at the UK level, gave us Of the four components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components appropriate evidence for our opinion on the financial statements.
full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining one component specific scope component, we performed audit procedures on specific account balances within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial Our application of materiality statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 99% 2017: 98% of the Groups Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 94% 2017: 91% of the Groups Revenue and 94% 2017: 96% of the Groups Total Materiality assets, all benchmarks related to continuing operations.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work we performed: the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Revenue Profit Total assets No.
Revenue Profit Total assets We determined materiality for the Group to be GEL 20 million 2017: GEL 25 million, which was approximately 1 Full scope 3 94% 99% 93% 5 88% 93% 94% 5% 2017: 5% of forecast profit from continuing operations before tax and non-recurring items at the time of our 2 audit planning.
We consider that this adjusted profit figure best represents the results of the underlying operations Specific scope 1 0% 0% 1% 1 3% 5% 2% of the Group and as such provides us with an appropriate basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk Full and specific scope coverage 4 94% 99% 94% 6 91% 98% 96% assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, 3 Remaining components 18 6% 1% 6% 24 9% 2% 4% timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Although the actual profit for the financial year exceeded the forecast, Total reporting components 22 100% 100% 100% 30 100% 100% 100% we decided to retain the original materiality amount.
As a consequence, materiality is approximately 4% of actual profit from continuing operations before tax and non-recurring items.
We audited the complete financial information.
We audited specific account balances within these components.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journal entries and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of Starting material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Profit before tax from continuing operations: GEL 437.5 million 4.
Profit from continuing operations before non-recurring items and tax.
basis The components for which we performed full or specific scope procedures are set out below: Adjustments Non-recurring items: GEL 57.2 million Component Scope Location team Bank of Georgia Group PLC Full London primary team Totals GEL 494.7 million materiality basis BGEO Group Limited Full London primary team Materiality Materiality of GEL 20.0 million approx.
4% of materiality basis JSC Bank of Georgia Full Georgia primary team JSC BGEO Group Specific Georgia primary team We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be GEL 70 million, which is approximately 2% of equity of Changes from the prior year 3,461m.
We consider that, in respect of the Parent Company, equity is most relevant to the stakeholders and is best For the year ended 31 December 2018, we changed the scope for JSC BGEO Group from full scope to specific scope representative of the economic size of the entity and as such provides us with an appropriate basis for determining the because of the decrease in the size and risk characteristics of this component and we have removed from scope the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement components that have been transferred out of the Group as a result of the Demerger of Banking and Investment and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Businesses of the Group in May 2018.
We have specifically verified that the profit and total comprehensive income from their operations together with the results of the Demerger have been properly presented in lines Profit from discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement and Total comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, respectively.
160 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 161 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC continued In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items Performance materiality in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to conclude that those items meet the following conditions: an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 125 the statement given by the Directors that they consider exceeds materiality.
the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or judgment was that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely GEL 10 million Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 121 to 125 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee 2017: GEL 12.5 million.
does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 104 the parts of the Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to components was set at the level of the Group performance materiality, namely GEL 10 million.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Reporting threshold with the Companies Act 2006.
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial GEL1million 2017: GEL 1.25 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed Matters on which we are required to report by exception above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires and our auditors report thereon, including the following sections of the Annual Report: us to report to you if, in our opinion: Strategic Report, including Overview, Strategy and Performance sections, set out on pages 1 to 101. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Governance section, including Directors Governance Overview, Shareholder and Stakeholder Engagement, Board of not been received from branches not visited by us: or Directors, Executive Management, Nomination Committee Report, Audit Committee Report, Risk Committee Report, the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Directors Responsibilities and Directors Report, set out on pages 102 in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or to 153. certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Additional information, including Abbreviations, References, Glossary and Shareholder information, set out on pages we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors The Directors are responsible for the other information.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 149, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from We have nothing to report in this regard.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
162 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 163 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Independent auditors report to the members of Bank of Georgia Group PLC continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable Other matters which we are required to address We were appointed by Bank of Georgia Group PLC on 25 January 2018 to audit the financial statements for the first of detecting irregularities, including fraud accounting period ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent annual financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted The objectives of our audit: engagement is 14 months, covering the first accounting period ended 31 December 2017 and the year ended in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due 31 December 2018. to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting our audit.
of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management: and in respect to irregularities, considered to be non-compliance with laws and regulations, are: to obtain sufficient Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations generally recognised to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements direct laws and regulations, and perform other audit procedures to help identify instances of nonUse of our report compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements.
We are This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the not responsible for preventing non-compliance with laws and regulations and our audit procedures cannot be Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Our approach was as follows: members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We obtained a general understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and John Headley Senior Statutory Auditor determined that the most significant were the relevant regulations of the UK Listing Authority UKLA, as well as for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor the various Georgian legal and regulatory requirements applying to the components of the Group, of which the most London material are the regulations of the National Bank of Georgia.
27 March 2019 We obtained a general understanding of how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory frameworks by Notes: making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for legal and compliance matters.
The maintenance and integrity of the Bank of Georgia Group PLCs website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve reviewed correspondence between the Group and its regulators: reviewed minutes of the Board and Executive Risk consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Committee: and gained an understanding of the Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the Boards 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
approval of the Groups governance framework and the Boards review of the Groups risk management framework RMF and internal control processes.
For direct laws and regulations, we considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For both direct and other laws and regulations, our procedures involved: making enquiry of those charged with governance and senior management for their awareness of any non-compliance of laws or regulations, inquiring about the policies that have been established to prevent non-compliance with laws and regulations by officers and employees, inquiring about the Groups methods of enforcing and monitoring compliance with such policies, inspecting significant correspondence with the regulators.
The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment.
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities which included the use of specialists where appropriate.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered areas of significant judgment, complex transactions, performance targets, economic or external pressures and the impact these have on the control environment.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk which included management, internal audit and legal enquiries, testing of internal control, journal entry testing, analytical procedures, tests of detail and focused testing as referred to in the Key Audit Matters section above.
These procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
164 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 165 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Consolidated Statement of Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2018 thousands of Georgian Lari FinancialPosition As at 31 December 2018 thousands of Georgian Lari Notes 2018 2017 2016 Notes 2018 2017 2016 Assets Interest income calculated using EIR method 1,302,906 1,117,770 915,609 Cash and cash equivalents 7 1,215,799 1,582,435 1,573,610 Other interest income 19,391 14,144 10,420 Amounts due from credit institutions 8 1,305,216 1,225,947 1,054,983 Interest income 1,322,297 1,131,914 926,029 Investment securities 9 2,019,017 1,564,869 1,286,003 Interest expense 574,589 459,379 377,908 Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 10 9,397,747 7,690,450 6,648,482 Deposit insurance fees 5,955 Accounts receivable and other loans 2,849 38,944 128,506 Net interest income 21 741,753 672,535 548,121 Insurance premiums receivable 30,573 46,423 Fee and commission income 228,769 190,392 169,581 Prepayments 44,294 149,558 76,277 Fee and commission expense 76,107 60,342 47,104 Inventories 13,292 100,194 188,344 Net fee and commission income 22 152,662 130,050 122,477 Investment properties 11 151,446 353,565 288,227 Net foreign currency gain 128,762 79,106 89,480 Property and equipment 12 344,059 988,436 1,288,594 Net other income 7,262 18,645 10,666 Goodwill 13 33,351 55,276 106,986 Revenue 1,030,439 900,336 770,744 Intangible assets 12 83,366 60,980 58,907 Income tax assets 14 19,451 2,293 24,043 Salaries and other employee benefits 23 214,761 195,994 166,574 Other assets 15 126,008 188,732 184,791 Administrative expenses 23 112,654 98,372 80,152 Assets held for sale 42,408 Depreciation and amortisation 45,442 40,974 37,207 Assets of disposal group held for sale 1,136,417 Other operating expenses 3,995 3,458 3,853 Total assets 14,798,303 15,168,669 12,954,176 Operating expenses 376,852 338,798 287,786 Liabilities Profit from associates 1,339 1,311 Client deposits and notes 16 8,133,853 6,712,482 5,382,698 Operating income before cost of risk 654,926 562,849 482,958 Amounts owed to credit institutions 17 2,994,879 3,155,839 3,470,091 Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2017 consolidated financial statement as they reflect the adjustments made to discontinued operations as described in Note 5.
Debt securities issued 18 1,730,414 1,709,152 1,255,643 Accruals and deferred income 47,063 132,669 130,319 The accompanying Notes on pages 177 to 283 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Insurance contract liabilities 46,402 67,871 Income tax liabilities 14 28,855 20,959 27,718 Other liabilities 15 64,966 142,133 231,623 Liabilities of disposal group held for sale 516,663 Total liabilities 13,000,030 12,436,299 10,565,963 Equity 20 Share capital 1,618 1,151 1,154 Additional paid-in capital 480,555 106,086 183,872 Treasury shares 51 66 54 Other reserves 30,515 122,082 74,399 Retained earnings 1,277,732 2,180,415 1,872,496 Reserves of disposal group held for sale 10,934 Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Group 1,790,369 2,420,602 2,131,867 Non-controlling interests 7,904 311,768 256,346 Total equity 1,798,273 2,732,370 2,388,213 Total liabilities and equity 14,798,303 15,168,669 12,954,176 The financial statements on pages 166 to 283 were approved by the Board of Directors on and signed on its behalf by: Archil Gachechiladze Chief Executive Officer 27 March 2019 Registered No.
10917019 The accompanying Notes on pages 177 to 283 are an integral part of these financial statements.
166 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 167
