Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Wealth Management Niko Pirosmani at Albertina Museum One of the cornerstones of the new brand identity of our Wealth Management business is popularising Georgian heritage.
In 2018, Bank of Georgia financed an exhibition by a famous Georgian painter, Niko Pirosmanashvili Pirosmani at the world-famous Albertina Museum in Vienna, Austria.
The exhibition was dedicated to Pirosmanis 100-year anniversary and was aimed at acquainting visitors with a unique perspective and the talent of this Georgian autodidact painter.
The exhibition was on view from 26 October 2018 until 27 January 2019.
36 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 37 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Digital banking experience Bank of Georgia regards digital experience in modern banking as inherent to its own identity and strategy.
We have Omni-channel experience Digital vs. non-digital transactions actively invested in information technology solutions to offer our retail and corporate clients best-in-breed digital Currently, we are developing an omni-channel digital Number of transactions in millions banking channels that help to make their everyday lives and businesses easier and successful.
In order to remain relevant experience within Bank of Georgias primary website and up-to-date with todays ever increasing preferences in digital solutions, we observe the latest trends and practices, www.
ge, which will be completely redesigned 14.2 analyse potential novelties and quickly turn knowledge into the services our clients need.
and revamped in order to make it comprehensive and useful.
12.2 11.5 The updated website, which we will introduce in 2019, will 10.5 10.3 be a one-stop-shop space for all products and services that Bank of Georgia offers.
Importantly, the website will come 3.7 3.6 3.4 with fully integrated internet banking platforms for both our 3.0 2.7 retail and corporate clients.
With a single login, a client will be able to navigate to any of the digital platforms he or she 4Q17 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 desires.
Once logged in, a client will be able to easily apply for any product from the menu and since the clients data Through digital channels Through tellers automatically flows from other digital channels, filling the application will be as easy and enjoyable as never before.
To make the experience even more worthwhile, the website will offer product comparison pages, calculators, currency conversion widgets, GPS location, and more.
78.4% Internet bank iBank Off-load rate Volume of transactions 44.7% y-o-y up from 74.9% y-o-y 2.0bln mBank Consumer Digital Bank of Distinction Number of transactions -8.2% y-o-y 5.9mln Number of users 34.5% y-o-y Internet banking deposits.
In addition, starting from 2018, our customers are In the first quarter of 2019, we released a brand new also able to apply for a loan or prepay it via mBank.
26,098 295,226 business internet banking platform Business iBank for loans were issued with a total value of GEL 39.4 million our MSME and corporate clients, which comes with plenty using the mobile banking application during 2018.
Moreover, of handy features designed to make its use an intuitive a new feature was added to mBank and our customers can and smooth experience.
Many of the existing features now open or terminate a deposit via our mobile platform.
were redesigned, while a number of new ones were added.
Currently, we are in the process of building a personal Mobile bank mBank We focused our efforts on making the Business iBank finance manager PFM tool for mBank.
We partnered even more useful for business transactions, accounting, with Strands to integrate their award-winning solution Volume of transactions payments, money transfers and administration.
186.1% y-o-y Mobile banking Open Banking strategy Since the Bank launched its mobile banking application In 2018, we introduced BOG Fintech a new strategic 2.0bln mBank platform in 2017, we consistently boosted its direction established under the Open Banking Strategy capabilities and usefulness.
In 2018, we introduced a new developed by the Bank.
Open Banking offers new Number of transactions payment method QR PAY to the local small business opportunities to innovators to create new technology- 146.9% y-o-y market.
QR PAY was designed by the Bank as an alternative based financial services for customers.
It opens up payment mechanism to the traditional point of sale terminal information technology infrastructure and new resources for small Georgian businesses.
For customers who use Bank to fintechs so that they can introduce innovative services 15.7mln of Georgias mobile bank and a debit or credit card, settling in partnership with the Bank.
payments with QR PAY is simple and user-friendly.
Currently, Number of users about 800 small businesses are already connected to In 2018, we transformed the delivery process of in-house 88.3% y-o-y QRPAY.
We aim to increase In 2018, Bank of Georgia was awarded with a Consumer the efficiency and effectiveness of project delivery, Digital Bank of Distinction Award from Global Finance in In 2018, we enriched our mBank with flexible tools that better meet the requirements of the Banking Business 333.698 Central and Eastern Europe, for the second consecutive year.
enable our clients to manage their accounts, loans and and improve the quality of end-products.
Percentage of transactions executed through remote channels.
38 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 39
