Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Superior access to funding Larisation Bank of Georgia Group has superior access to both equity and debt capital, which provides flexibility with liability Bank of Georgia has been actively supporting the fideBank of Georgias successful cooperation with its management and is our key competitive advantage in realising our ambition to capture attractive opportunities dollarisation of the Georgian economy ever since 2016, partner financial institutions supports the development in Georgia.
when the Bank raised a US$ 100 million equivalent GELof Georgian SMEs by decreasing their exposure to foreign denominated five-year loan from the European Bank for exchange risk which compromises their solvency.
The Galt & Taggart brings corporate advisory, debt and equity capital markets research and brokerage services under Reconstruction and Development EBRD.
The pioneering absence of currency mismatches in their assets and one brand and continues to develop local capital markets in Georgia.
local currency facility offered by EBRD was the largest and liabilities provides the SMEs with a much needed cushion longest maturity resource granted to a Georgian bank.
The against economic fluctuations and opportunities to grow We are a leader in the local capital market industry through Galt & Taggart and Bank of Georgia custody: loan enabled the Bank to provide essential local currency their businesses notwithstanding external economic loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to shocks.
Solvent and naturally hedged Georgian companies GEL 1.4 billion local bonds placed by Galt & Taggart since 2014 converge to DCFTA requirements, as well as underserved translate into a more robust banking sector as well, The only international sub-custodian in the region through State Street, Citi and Clearstream Bank Luxembourg segments, such as women entrepreneurs.
with much healthier loan books and more sustainable profits.
Eventually, the larisation of the Georgian financial In 2019, Global Finance Magazine named Galt & Taggart Best Investment Bank in Georgia for the fifth consecutive In the same year of 2016, Bank of Georgia went further in sector is a crucial process for all the stakeholders in the year.
In 2018, Cbonds, one of the leading news agencies for financial data analysis and processing, distinguished raising a GEL 60 million five-year facility from Black Sea economy and Bank of Georgia, as a leading Georgian bank, Galt&Taggart as Best Investment Bank in Georgia 2018 for the third consecutive year.
Trade and Development Bank BSTDB aimed at financing continues to play an important role in it.
investments and the working capital needs of local The strength of our franchise and brand name translates into pricing power by driving down the cost of deposits.
businesses in rural and urban areas of Georgia.
BSTDB Theability to replace more costly borrowings with cheaper funding also leads to improved funding costs: supported the Banks local currency lending to SMEs by topping up its exposure by an additional GEL 75 million Lower deposit rates than offered on the market five-year facility in 2018.
Cost of client deposits and notes 3.5% in 2018 down from 7.5% in 2010 Cost of funds 5.0% in 2018 down from 8.2% in 2010 It is important to note, that in addition to supplying the Georgian banking sector with high demand local currency long-term resources, the cooperation with Development Finance Institutions DFIs helps develop the Georgian Jan 2007 Feb 2005 mid-1990s capital market as well.
DFIs raise the local currency funds FMO Nov 2006 Issues bonds Oct 2004 EBRD, IFC, DEG through a public placement of GEL-denominated bonds on US$12.5million IPO c. US$160 million GEL2 million 11% Firebird and East 1998 and other IFIs to finance SME issue price GBP9.2 callable two-year Capital become EBRD becomes provide credit lines the Georgian Stock Exchange arranged by Galt & Taggart, loan portfolio GDR listing on LSE local bonds shareholders a shareholder to fund growth the Groups wholly-owned brokerage arm.
In 2017, Bank of Georgia pioneered the first GELJan 2007 denominated bond issuance to a broad base of investors Issues on the Irish Stock Exchange.
The issuance of GEL 500 Feb 2008 Eurobonds Equity issuance US$100 million Dec 2010 Feb 2012 million was the first international local currency bond US$200 million raised through an offering of new ADB US$50million five-year Premium listing on 9% five-year offering from the wider CIS region excluding Russia in the ordinary shares in the form of GDRs maturity loan for SMEs London Stock Exchange Eurobond past ten years and represented a landmark transaction for Georgia.
The issuance marked an extraordinary precedence Dec 2008 Jul 2012 GEL deposits as a % of total client deposits of foreign investors assuming Georgian local currency risk OPIC US$29 million ten-year Issues Eurobonds US$250 million and thus expressing their trust in the currency.
senior mortgage facility 7.75% five-year Eurobond Apr 2015 32.5% European Investment Bank EUR40million Nov 2013 In 2018, the Bank executed its first local currency 30.5% Sep 2015 financing for SME and micro businesses Issues Eurobonds US$150 million 7.75% Eurobond transaction with Symbiotics a Swiss investment Citibank with seven-year maturity consolidated with US$250 million 2012 bond company active in emerging and frontier economies.
US$40 million financing The GEL-denominated loan facility, totaling GEL 25 million 23.2% May 2015 Dec 2014 June 2014 Dec 2013 for SME US$ 10 million with a maturity of two to three years was IFC US$90 million US$114 million capital raise share EFSE EUR18.5million for IFC US$ 65 million subordinated debt price GBP20.25, raised capital to MSE and micro businesses subordinated debt an unhedged transaction, whereby Symbiotics assumed 2016 2017 2018 purchase Privatbank and support the exposure to Georgian Lari.
Transactions of this kind May 2016 further acquisitions are critical for the larisation of the Georgian economy.
EBRD GEL242 million for MSME financing, with five-year In 2018, Dutch development bank, Nederlandse GEL loans as a % of total loan portfolio Aug 2016 May 2017 maturity  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. July 2016 BSTDB GEL60 million Issued local currency Eurobonds Mar 2018 FMO chose Bank of Georgia as its trusted counterparty for Issued Eurobonds US$350 million for MSME financing, with GEL500 million 11% three-year BSTDB GEL 75 million its first local currency transaction in Georgia.
The Bank raised 6% seven-year Eurobond five-year maturity GEL-denominated bond local currency funding 38.3% 38.3% a GEL 160 million five-year facility to reinforce its lending capacity of GEL-denominated loans in the local market and further contribute to fide-dollarising the Georgian economy.
28.7% Mar 2019 Over the last three years, the Bank of Georgia raised Successfully priced the first Additional local currency funding from credit institutions and foreign 2016 2017 2018 Tier 1 Capital Notes Dec 2018 Dec 2018 July 2018 July 2018 investors in the amount of around GEL 1 billion.
In 2018, $100 million 11.125% GGFUS$ 25 million for EFSEUS$ 10 million DEGUS$ 43 million FMO GEL160 million the Groups local currency deposits were 32.5% of the total Perpetual Notes energy-efficient projects for MSEs for corporate lending local currency funding deposits, up from 30.5% in 2017.
The loan book larisation reached 38.3% of the total loan portfolio, flat y-o-y.
The larisation slowed down in 2018 on the back of local currency depreciation.
42 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 43 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Strong results driven by solid performance across all segments The Groups KPIs for 2018 reflect a continuing strong performance in the Groups Banking Business, demonstrating excellent customer franchise growth with stable margins, a strong balance sheet and strong profitability.
The KPIs could be affected if any of the principal risks and uncertainties, set out on pages 60 to 67, materialise.
For more information on our financial results, see pages 86 to 101.
Profitability KPIs Diversified revenue sources, a growing loan book, improved asset quality, efficient cost performance and fee income growth were the main drivers of the exceptional results in terms of profitability.
The substantial growth of the loan book and good cost management in both Retail and Corporate Investment Banking businesses, stable individual product loan yields, stable cost of funds, and higher asset quality translated into 23.0% y-o-y increase in profit before non-recurring items and income tax in 2018.
The resulting strong growth in interest and non-interest income translated into 13.3% y-o-y growth in revenue.
Our increasing focus on lending in the mortgage segment and to finer margin corporate and SME clients, has however led to a negative mix effect on overall loan yields and on the net interest margin, which was reduced by 80 basis points y-o-y in 2018.
In 2019 and beyond, we will continue to focus on profitable earnings growth, to be driven by sustainable levels of customer lending growth without compromising asset quality, to increase the share of income from fee-generating operations and to enhance cost efficiencies.
Key Performance Profit before non-recurring Return on average items and income tax GEL million Banking Business equity Banking Business Indicators 2016 2016 314.6 22.2% 492.6 26.1% 2017 2017 400.4 25.2% 2018 2018 492.6 26.1% 23.0% y-o-y 90 bps y-o-y Profit before non-recurring items and income tax is calculated in accordance with IFRS and represents Profit attributable to shareholders divided by monthly average total equity attributable to shareholders.
revenue and profit from associates, less operating expenses and cost of risk.
Total equity attributable to shareholders is made up of share capital, additional paid-in capital, treasury shares, retained earnings and other reserves.
Basic earnings per share Dividend per share GEL Banking Business GEL BOGG 2016 2016 7.68 2.60 9.92 2.55 2017 2017 9.63 2.44 2018 2018 9.92 2.55 3.0% y-o-y 4.5% y-o-y Profit attributable to shareholders divided by weighted average number of outstanding shares less In 2018, Bank of Georgia Group PLC issued additional 9,784,716 Bank of Georgia Group shares equivalent treasury shares.
to 19.9% of Bank of Georgia Groups issued ordinary share capital to Georgia Capital as part of the Demerger of Investment Business to Georgia Capital PLC on 29 May 2018.
2018 results were adjusted for GEL 30.3mln Demerger-related costs, GEL 8.0mln Demerger-related corporate income tax gain, and GEL 30.3mln one-off impact of remeasurement of deferred tax balances.
44 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 45 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Key performance indicators continued Efficiency KPIs Capital KPIs In 2018, operating expenses broadly kept pace with revenue growth, reflecting organic growth of our Retail Banking In 2018, our Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio NBG, Basel III stood at 12.2%.
The risk weighted assets increased business and increase in administrative expenses.
Express Banking, a technology-intensive remote banking channel, by 23.4%, reflecting the increase in interest earning assets during the year.
We continue to generate high levels and our remote channels, such as mBank and iBank, are the main drivers of efficiency for our Banking Business.
In 2018, of internal capital as a result of both the Banks high return on average equity, and the improved risk asset intensity we implemented Agile Delivery in our information technology arm, which aims at optimising the workflow and of our lending growth.
Over the medium term, we will focus on managing our capital ratios c. 200 basis points over coordination processes and increasing end-product quality and usefulness.
In 2018, the Bank introduced a Lean project, our minimum regulatory requirements.
which has already started to improve back office procedures, and introduce end-to-end process optimisation in the mortgage business.
Over the last 12 months, the cost to income ratio has improved from 37.7% in 2017, to 36.7% in 2018.
Operating leverage is measured as the percentage change in revenue less the percentage change in NBG Basel III Tier I capital adequacy ratio equals Tier I capital divided by total risk weighted assets, both Leverage times equals total liabilities divided by total equity.
calculated in accordance with the requirements of the National Bank of Georgia instructions.
Growth KPIs Non-financial KPIs Banking Business Net loan book growth The 21.4% loan book growth was driven by our Retail The Bank tracks customer satisfaction with multiple survey channels and several key performance indicators on an Banking business, which posted a 24.2% growth in the ongoing basis, followed by an effective close-the-loop process.
The Bank is responsive to the customer feedback which loan book in 2018.
The Corporate Investment Banking loan it collects on a daily basis and has been consistently working on integrating the customer experience in its processes.
book increased by 15.9% in 2018, after delivering on the Going forward, we aim at improving these non-financial KPIs.
2016 24.5% targets of loan portfolio risk fide-concentration initiatives 21.4% 2017 15.9% in 2017.
We expect customer lending growth for the 2018 21.4% Net promotion scale NPS Customer satisfaction CSAT medium to long term to be comfortably within our 15-20% expected growth range, with lending growth expectations over the next 12 months to be closer to 15%.
Net loans to customers and finance lease receivables at the end of the year compared to the previous year.
38.8% 25.3% 2017 2017 27.4% 25.0% 2018 2018 38.8% 25.3% Asset quality KPIs Our asset quality improved in 2018, as a result of our prudent application of the Groups risk management policies, NPS asks: on a scale of 0-10, how likely is it that you would recommend our Bank to a friend or a colleague?
CSAT asks: on a scale of 1-5, how satisfied are you with a particular channel or a parameter?
The final good lending discipline and the ongoing strength of the Georgian economy.
Cost of credit risk ratio decreased from The responses are: 9 and 10 are promoters: 7 and 8 are neutral: 1 to 6 are detractors.
The final result, result is the percentage of the respondents that reply with 5 from the total number of the respondents.
thus an NPS, equals to the percentage of the promoters minus the percentage of the detractors.
NPLs to gross loans improved from 3.8% as at 31 December 2017 to 3.3% at the end of 2018.
NPL coverage ratio went down in 2018 to 90.5%.
NPL coverage ratio adjusted for discounted Banking Business Cost of credit risk value of collateral Banking Business 2016 2016 2.7% 132.1% 1.6% 129.9% 2017 2017 2.2% 130.6% 2018 2018 1.6% 129.9% -60 bps y-o-y -70 bps y-o-y Cost of credit risk ratio equals expected credit loss impairment charge for loans to customers and NPL coverage ratio adjusted for discounted value of collateral equals allowance for expected credit finance lease receivables for the period divided by monthly average gross loans to customers and finance loss impairment loss of loans and finance lease receivables divided by NPLs discounted value of lease receivables over the same period.
collateral is added back to allowance for expected credit loss impairment loss.
Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio at 31 December 2016 is presented in accordance with NBG Basel II guidelines.
46 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 47 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Creating a culture of integrity and accountability We identify, evaluate, manage and monitor the risks control policies and procedures.
Our reporting process that we face through an integrated control framework enables key risks to be escalated to the appropriate level supported by formal policies and procedures, clearly of authority and provides assurance to the Committees delegated authority levels and comprehensive reporting.
Key developments affecting our principal The Board confirms that our framework has been risks and associated mitigating actions are reviewed in place throughout the year under review and to the quarterly or more often if necessary on an ad hoc basis, date of approval of this Annual Report and that it is outside of the regular reporting process by the Audit integrated into both our business planning and viability and Risk Committees, as appropriate, and the Board.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are identified through the above processes.
Overview A description of these principal risks and Our Board, supported by its Audit and Risk Committees uncertainties, including recent trends and outlook, and the Management Board, is ultimately responsible as well as mitigation efforts, can be found on for the Groups risk management and internal controls.
pages 60 to 67 of the Strategic Report.
We believe that in order to have an effective risk management framework there needs to be a strong risk Internal control management culture within the Group.
In this section Our Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the we demonstrate how we ensure that managing risk is Groups system of internal control and its adequacy and ingrained in our everyday business activities.
Controls are reviewed to ensure effective to create an environment where there is openness and management of risks we face.
Certain matters such transparency in how we make decisions and manage risks as the approval of major capital expenditure, significant and where business managers are accountable for the risk acquisitions or disposals and major contracts are management and internal control processes associated Bank of Georgia Group reserved exclusively for the Board.
The full schedule of with their activities.
Our culture also seeks to ensure matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found that risk management is responsive, forward-looking on our website, at https: bankofgeorgiagroup.
For other matters, the Board Risk Management is often assisted by both the Audit and Risk Committees.
Our framework The Boards mandate includes determining the Groups With respect to internal control over financial reporting, risk appetite and risk tolerance as well as monitoring including over the Groups consolidation process, risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent of our financial procedures include a range of system, the main risks we face are consistent with our overall transactional and management oversight controls.
The goals and strategic objectives.
The Board is accountable Group prepares detailed monthly management reports for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and that include analyses of results along with comparisons, processes of risk management and internal control, with relevant strategic plans, budgets, forecasts and prior the Audit and Risk Committees assisting in the discharge results.
These are presented to and reviewed by the of this responsibility.
At the Board, Committee and Management Board.
Each quarter, the Banks CFO and Management Board levels, we develop formal policies and other members of the finance team discuss financial procedures which explain the way in which risks need to be reporting and associated internal controls with the systematically identified, assessed, quantified, managed Audit Committee, which reports significant findings and monitored.
The Audit Committee also reviews the quarterly, half-year and full year financial statements and Each business participates in the risk management corresponding results announcements and advises the process by identifying the key risks applicable to its Board.
The external and internal auditors attend each business.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by Audit Committee meeting and the Audit Committee the Group are identified through this bottom-up process.
meets them regularly both with and without the Management Board present.
On a day-to-day basis, the Management Board is responsible for the implementation of the Groups risk Our Audit and Risk Committees monitor internal control management and other internal control policies and over operating and compliance risk through discussions procedures.
Based on our risk culture, managers own with the Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, the Banks the risks relevant to their respective function.
For each risk Head of AML and Compliance, Head of Internal Audit and identified at any level of the business, the risk is measured, other Management Board members on a quarterly basis.
mitigated if possible in accordance with our policies Any key issues identified are escalated to the Board.
The and procedures and monitored.
Managers are required Board also receives regular presentations directly from to report on identified risks and responses to such risks the head of each risk unit of the Bank.
Principal risk and on a consistent and frequent basis.
The Management internal control issues are addressed in such presentations.
Board regularly reviews the output from the bottom-up The Banks Internal Audit function reviews a number of process by providing independent challenge and assessing areas of risk pursuant to an annual programme approved the implementation of the risk management and internal by the Audit Committee.
Any significant issues or risks 48 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 49 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk management continued arising from an internal audit are reported to the Audit The Banks risk management system is based on Committee reports Bank risk management Committee which monitors that appropriate actions are the principle of continually assessing risk throughout As noted throughout this discussion, both the The Bank is the principal driver of the Groups revenue undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution.
The Banks the life of any operation and includes such stages as: Audit and Risk Committees play an essential role in and operates in the financial services sector, therefore, Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the risk identification: implementing effective risk management and internal its risk management and internal control framework are Chairman of the Audit Committee.
qualitative and quantitative assessment control.
Each Committee has described this work fundamental to that of the Group.
The work undertaken of a particular risk: in its Committee Report.
by the Banks risk management bodies feeds back directly Our systems of internal control are also supported by our determination of an acceptable risk level: to the Group.
The Audit Committee Report and Risk Committee Whistleblowing Policy, which allows employees to report risk monitoring and mitigation: Report can be found on pages 121 to 125 and concerns on an anonymous basis.
Responsibility for the ongoing monitoring and control allowing efficient Given the significance of the Bank, the risk management pages 126 to 128, respectively.
Whistleblowing Policy resides with the Board, and both adjustments in case of any changes in the conditions and internal control framework in place at the Bank are the Board and Audit Committee receive annual and ad hoc on which the preliminary risk assessment was made: described below.
reports on the operation of the policy from the Head and Viability statement of AML and Compliance of the Bank on any significant analysis of the effectiveness of the risk The Board has undertaken the assessment of the Groups The role of the Bank in the overall issues raised.
prospects to meet its liabilities by taking into account its current position and principal risks.
risk management structure Management of risk is fundamental to the Banking Effectiveness review Bank risk management bodies The Groups going concern statement and viability Business and is an essential element of the Groups Each year, we review the effectiveness of our risk The principal risk management bodies of the Bank statement are on pages 68 to 69. operations.
The main risks inherent in the Banks management processes and internal control systems, are the: Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, Risk operations are credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk with the assistance of the Audit and Risk Committees.
Committee, Management Board, Internal Audit, Treasury, including currency and foreign exchange rate risks, This review covers all material systems, including financial, Credit Committee, Asset and Liability Management operational risk and legal risk.
The following is a operational and compliance controls.
The latest review Committee the ALCO, AML and Compliance and Legal description of the Banks risk management policies and covered the financial year to 31 December 2018 and department.
The Supervisory Board, Audit Committee procedures in respect of those risks.
Business risks such as obtained assurance from the Management Board and and Risk Committee perform similar roles as the Group changes in the environment, technology and industry are Internal Audit of the Bank.
The Board is able to conclude Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk monitored through the Groups strategic planning process.
with reasonable assurance that the appropriate internal Committee, only at Bank level.
controls and risk management systems were maintained and operated effectively throughout 2018 and that these Risk management bodies of Bank of Georgia systems continued to operate effectively up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The review did not identify Risk Committee any significant weaknesses or failings in the systems.
We are satisfied that our risk management processes and internal control systems processes comply with the Audit Committee UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code and Supervisory Board the Financial Reporting Council FRC s guidance on Risk of Bank of Georgia Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Internal Audit and Business Reporting.
Although we did not identify any significant weaknesses or failings, we continuously strive to improve our framework and focus on further mitigating Asset and Liability Credit Committee Management Board Management Board our key risks, especially as they evolve.
As part of this, we provide mandatory online training to staff on the importance of risk management and internal controls.
Quantitative risk Credit risk Portfolio risk Operational risk AML and Treasury Legal management and management management management Compliance risk analytics Management Board.
The Management Board has The Internal Audit department is independent of the overall responsibility for the Banks asset, liability and risk Banks Management Board.
The Head of the Internal Audit management activities, policies and procedures.
In order department is appointed by the Banks Supervisory Board and reports directly to the Banks Audit Committee.
The to effectively implement the risk management system, the Banks Internal Audit department discusses the outcomes Management Board delegates individual risk management of all assessments with the Banks Management Board functions to each of the various decision-making and and reports its findings and recommendations to the execution bodies within the Bank.
The Banks Internal Audit department is responsible for the regular review audit of the Banks operations, activities, systems and processes, in order to evaluate and provide reasonable, independent and objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve the Banks operations.
In January 2019, Audit Committee of the Bank was transformed into the Audit and Corporate Governance Committee in accordance with NBG Corporate Governance Code.
50 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 51 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk management continued The Internal Audit departments scope of work is to resources are acquired economically, used efficiently, All exposures to single group borrowers over the Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, statement of determine whether the Banks overall risk management and protected adequately: US$ 25.0 million require approval by the Supervisory operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, currency framework, internal control and corporate governance programmes, plans and objectives are achieved Board.
Lower tier subcommittees meet on a daily basis, gap, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding processes, as designed and represented by the in line with predetermined expectations: and whereas higher tier ones typically meet three to four liquidity risk reports, total cash flow analysis, customer Management Board, are adequate and functioning significant legislative or regulatory issues impacting times a week.
Each of the subcommittees of the Credit cash flow analysis and concentration risk analysis, for the in a manner to ensure: the organisation are recognised and addressed in Committees makes its decisions by a majority vote of past periods as well as future projections and forecasts, material risks including strategic, credit, compliance a timely and proper manner.
other financial analysis and further growth projections market, liquidity, reputational and operational risks on a monthly basis.
are appropriately identified, measured, assessed and In order to fulfil its function, the Banks Internal Audit The Problem Assets Committee is chaired by one of the managed across the Bank, including its outsourced department has unrestricted access to all the Banks following: the Head of the Problem Loan Management Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are set by activities: records, property and personnel.
department first level pertains to loans of up to GEL the National Bank of Georgia NBG and are applied to interaction between the various governance and risk 250,000, the Banks Deputy CEO, Operations second the Bank on a standalone basis.
NBG requires the Bank management groups occurs efficiently and effectively: Treasury.
Treasury is responsible for managing the level pertains to the loans in the range of GEL 250,000- to maintain minimum capital adequacy ratios computed material financial, management and operational Banks assets and liabilities and its overall financial 500,000 and the Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer based on the Banks standalone special purpose financial reporting is accurate, reliable and timely: structure and is also primarily responsible for managing third level pertains to loans above GEL 500,000. statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations the Banks and its employees conduct is of high funding and liquidity risks of the Bank.
The Problem Loan Management department manages and pronouncements.
integrity and their actions are in compliance with the Banks exposures to problem loans and reports to the Banks policies, standards, procedures, as well the Banks Deputy CEO, Operations.
In order to transition to Basel III, NBG introduced new as applicable laws and regulations: capital adequacy requirements from December 2017, The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired by the which are phased-in on different levels of capital over Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees for Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and is responsible the four-year period through to 31 December 2021. for monitoring all of the Banks exposures to loans that As a result of the changes, the Bank of Georgia became Retail and Corporate Investment Banking loans are managed by the Corporate Recovery department.
subject to the following minimum capital requirements Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans US$ The Corporate Recovery department reports to the at 31 December 2018: Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 9.5%, Banks Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment Banking.
Tier 1 ratio of 11.4%, and Total Capital ratio of 15.9%.
At Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$ 2.0 million 31 December 2018, Bank of Georgias Common Equity Tier Credit Risk department Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO.
1 and Tier 1 ratios were 12.2%, while the Total Capital ratio Tier II Deputy CRO Head of the Credit Between US$ 2.0 million and The ALCO is the core risk management body that was 16.6%.
Transition to Basel III is not expected to affect Risk department US$ 10.0 million the Banks growth prospects or its ability to maintain establishes policies and guidelines with respect to capital dividend distributions within the existing dividend policy Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$ 10.0 million adequacy, market risks and respective limits, funding payout range.
liquidity risk and respective limits, interest rate and prepayment risks and respective limits, money market Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans US$ ALCO is the key governing body for capital adequacy general terms and credit exposure limits.
ALCO designs and Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$ 200,000 management, as well as for respective risks identification implements respective risk management and stress testing Credit Risk Management unit and management.
ALCO establishes limits and reviews models in practice and regularly monitors compliance with actual performance over those limits for NBG Basel III the preset risk limits, and approves treasury deals with Tier II Head of the relevant Credit Risk Between US$ 200,000 and capital adequacy regulation.
The Finance department is in non-standard terms.
Specifically, ALCO: Management unit US$ 500,000 charge of regular monthly monitoring of and reporting on sets money-market credit exposure lending limits: Tier III Deputy CRO Between US$ 500,000 and NBG Basel III capital adequacy compliance with original sets open currency position limits with respect to US$ 2.0 million pronouncements as well as with ALCO policies.
Capital overnight and intraday positions: Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$ 2.0 million adequacy management is an integral part of the Banks establishes stop-loss limits for foreign currency monthly reporting, as well as the Banks annual and semioperations and securities: annual budget approval and budget review processes.
monitors compliance with the established risk Credit Committee.
The Bank has five credit committees Deputy CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO, The Finance department prepares NBG Basel III capital management models for foreign exchange risk, together, the Credit Committees, each responsible Corporate Investment Banking, Head of Quantitative Risk adequacy actual reports, as well as their forecasts, interest rate risk and funding liquidity risk: for supervising and managing the Banks credit risks in Management Department, Head of Treasury and Head of budgets and different stress scenarios, while ALCO and sets ranges of interest rates for different maturities respect of loans for retail and wealth management clients, Trade Finance.
A majority of votes is enough for approval.
the Management Board regularly review them, identify at which the Bank may place its liquid assets and micro loans, SME loans, corporate loans and counterparty If the potential exposure exceeds US$ 10.0 million, then risks, issue recommendations and, if applicable, propose attract funding: and loans.
These committees are: the Retail Banking Credit the decision is deferred to the ALCO.
reviews different stress tests and capital adequacy Committee, Micro loans Credit Committee, SME loans models prepared by the Finance department Credit Committee, the Corporate Banking Credit The Credit Committee for retail loans comprises four tiers Legal department.
The Banks Legal departments and FGCRMC.
Committee and the Financial and Governmental of subcommittees for risk management purposes, loans principal purpose is to ensure that the Banks activities Counterparty Risk Management Committee FGCRMC.
for wealth management clients are classified as retail conform to applicable legislation and minimise losses from The ALCO is chaired by the Banks CEO and meets at any FGCRMC manages, monitors and controls counterparty loans, for micro loans of one tier and for SME loans three the materialisation of legal risks.
The Legal department time deemed necessary, with decisions made by a majority risk in relation to financial and governmental tiers of subcommittees.
Since 2017, micro loans and SME is responsible for the application and development of vote of its members.
ALCO members include the Banks counterparties of the Bank.
Each Credit Committee loan applications of less than US$ 1.0 million are approved mechanisms for identifying legal risks in the Banks CEO, Deputy CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO, approves individual loan transactions.
by credit risk managers of the relevant Credit Risk activities in a timely manner, the investigation of the Chief Risk Officer, Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment department.
The SME loans of more than US$ 1.0 million Banks activities in order to identify any legal risks, the Banking, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, Deputy CEO, SOLO Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers of are approved by the Head of SME Credit Risk Analysis planning and implementation of all necessary actions for & SME, Deputy CEO, Operations, the Head of the Finance subcommittees.
The FGCRMC comprises two tiers unit.
The Credit Committee for corporate loans comprises the elimination of identified legal risks, participation in department and the Head of the Treasury department.
The Committee consists of six three tiers of subcommittees.
Participation by the Banks legal proceedings on behalf of the Bank, where necessary, The ALCO reviews financial reports and indices including members the Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, CEO is required for exposures exceeding US$ 10.0 million.
52 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 53 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk management continued Each of these departments is provided with policies and Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared and and the investigation of possibilities for increasing the under supervision of the Banks General Counsel, or manuals that are approved by the Banks Management distributed to all levels throughout the Bank in order to effectiveness of the Banks legal documentation and its who directly reports to the Banks CEO.
The Finance Board and or the Supervisory Board as required.
The ensure that all business divisions have access to extensive, implementation in the Banks daily activities.
The Legal department and the Treasury department report to the manuals and policies include comprehensive guidance relevant and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing is department is also responsible for providing legal support Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Financial Officer.
The AML for each stage of a transaction, including, but not limited given to the Banks Management Board and all other to structural units of the Bank and or its subsidiaries.
and Compliance department reports to the Banks Deputy to, manuals outlining asset and liability management relevant employees of the Bank on the utilisation of CEO, Operations.
policies, foreign exchange operations procedures, fixed market limits, proprietary investments and liquidity, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Compliance.
income investment guidelines, Retail Banking operations as well as any other risk developments.
The Banks AML and Compliance department is The Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics procedures, the deposit policy and Credit Policies.
responsible for the implementation of the Banks department, in coordination with the Treasury, AML programme including the development of AML implements the Banks market risk policies by ensuring Risk mitigation and excessive Risk measurement and reporting.
The Bank measures policies and procedures, transaction monitoring and compliance with established open currency position limits, risk concentration risk using a method which reflects both the expected loss reporting, and employee training throughout the Bank counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible losses and As part of its overall risk management, the Bank uses likely to arise in normal circumstances and unexpected and its subsidiaries.
The AML programme is based the interest rate policy set by the ALCO.
derivatives and other instruments to manage exposures losses, which are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss on recommendations, directives and requirements of resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, based on different forecasting models.
These models use international organisations, including FATF Basel, the The Treasury department manages foreign currency credit risks, and exposures arising from forward probabilities derived from historical experience, adjusted European Parliament, and the US Department of the exchange, money market, securities portfolio and transactions.
While these derivatives are intended for from time to time to reflect the economic environment.
Treasury on sanctions programmes, as well as local derivatives operations and monitors compliance with the hedging, they do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The Bank also models scenarios simulating the impact regulations.
The Banks Internal Audit department limits set by the ALCO for these operations.
The Treasury of extreme events.
makes annual assessments of the Banks AML systems department is also responsible for management of The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks.
and controls, and provides independent assurance short-term liquidity and treasury cash flow and monitors Monitoring and controlling of risks is primarily performed of internal controls.
the volumes of cash in the Banks ATMs and at its In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risks, based on limits established by the Bank.
the Bank focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio.
reflect the business strategy and market environment The Bank has adopted a risk-based approach towards Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled of the Bank, as well as the level of risk that it is willing to ML FT risks, including a general anti-money laundering The Credit Risk department manages credit risks with and managed accordingly.
Concentrations arise when accept, with additional emphasis on selected industries.
policy, customer acceptance policy and financial sanctions respect to particular borrowers and assesses overall loan a number of counterparties, or related shareholders, The Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring and control, compliance policy.
The Banks risk-based approach means portfolio risks.
It is responsible for ensuring compliance are engaged in similar business activities, or activities allowing efficient adjustments in case of any unexpected that it applies enhanced due diligence towards ML FT with the Banks Credit Policies and management of the in the same geographic region, or have similar economic changes in the conditions on which the preliminary risk risks, it determines high-risk categories of products, quality of the Banks loan portfolio.
features that would cause their ability to meet contractual assessment was made.
In addition, the Bank monitors customers, services and jurisdictions.
obligations to be similarly affected by changes in and measures overall risk-bearing capacity in relation to The Portfolio Risk Management department manages economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations aggregate risk exposure across all risk types and activities.
The Bank is obliged to notify the Financial Monitoring and assesses credit risk with respect to the overall loan also involve combined, aggregate exposures of large and Service of Georgia of all transactions that are subject portfolio and is responsible for providing recommendations significant credits compared to the total outstanding The Bank maintains a management reporting to monitoring in accordance with Georgian legislation.
on the improvement of loan portfolio quality to minimise balance of the respective financial instrument s. system which requires the Credit Risk, Quantitative These reports are currently filed in electronic form in an credit losses.
It develops the Banks portfolio quality Risk Management and Risk Analytics, Portfolio Risk offline mode by the AML and Compliance department.
control models methods and ensures compliance with Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Management, Finance and Treasury departments to The reporting process is fully automated and is supported the Banks Credit Policies and established limits.
Banks performance to developments affecting a particular prepare certain reports on a daily and monthly basis.
Furthermore, the Bank industry or geographical location.
Identified concentrations On a daily basis, a statement of operations, balance operates special AML software, which meets industry The Operational Risk Management department identifies of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
sheet and treasury report which includes the Banks requirements.
The programme allows fully-automated and assesses operational risk within the Banks processes open foreign exchange positions, cash flows, limits and monitoring of all transactions against every sanctions and operations.
It also detects critical risk areas or groups balances on correspondent accounts with other banks list, as well as debarred and banned individuals and of operations with an increased risk level and develops Credit risk and confirmation that there has been compliance organisations, as identified by OFAC, the EU, the UN and internal control procedures to address these risks, through Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or with mandatory financial ratios must be provided by other similar bodies.
In pursuance of identifying suspicious among other things business-process redesign schemes, counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full or in each department.
On a monthly basis, a report on transactions the Banks AML and Compliance department including document circulation, information streams, part when due.
Credit risk arises mainly in the context the structural liquidity gap, a report on interest rate has implemented a centralised solution that links distribution of functions, permissions and responsibility.
of the Banks lending activities.
risk, and financial statements are produced, and these transactions, accounts and customers so that the Bank can are summarised in a quarterly report to the Banks see the enterprise-wide risk associated with each customer.
The Legal department monitors all changes in relevant Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks credit Supervisory Board and to the Risk Committee containing laws and regulations, and ensures that those changes are policy are outlined in the Credit Policies.
The Credit Policies analysis of the Banks performance against its budget.
properly reflected in the Banks procedures, instructions, also outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures Bodies implementing the risk Information compiled from all the businesses is examined manuals, templates and other relevant documentation.
and the Banks credit risk management systems.
The management system and processed in order to analyse, control and identify It also disseminates information on legislative changes Credit Policies are reviewed annually or more frequently, The Banks risk management system is implemented emerging risks.
This information is presented and explained to all relevant departments within the Bank.
As a result of these reviews, new loan by the Banks Credit Risk department, Quantitative to the Management Board and the head of each business department participates in drafting laws and regulatory restructuring tools are introduced.
The Bank also uses Risk Management and Risk Analytics department, division.
The report includes aggregate credit exposure, documents upon request of legislators and regulators, the NBGs provisioning methodology in order to comply Treasury, Operational Risk Management, Legal, AML liquidity ratios and risk profile changes.
The Banks certain associations and other professional bodies.
and Compliance and Security departments, Finance Management Board assesses the appropriateness department and other departments.
The Credit Risk, of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly basis.
The Tax Reporting and Tax Risks Management unit The Bank manages its credit risk by placing limits on Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics, The Management Board and the Supervisory Board focuses on the Banks relationship with the tax authorities, the amount of risk accepted with respect to individual Portfolio Risk Management and Operational Risk provides practical advice and monitors tax compliance receive a comprehensive risk report once a quarter which corporate borrowers or groups of related borrowers, Management departments report to the Banks Deputy across the Group.
is designed to provide all the necessary information to liability of insurance companies, types of banking CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Legal department is assess and draw conclusions on the Banks risk exposure.
54 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 55 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk management continued operations and by complying with the exposure limits Applications for mortgage loans of Retail Banking the amount of the ECL decreases the previously department prepares and submits monthly reports to established by the NBG.
The Bank also mitigates its clients are completed by the Mortgage Loan Officer and recognised loss is reversed by an adjusted ECL account.
The ALCO monitors the proportion of maturing credit risk by obtaining collateral and using other security submitted to the Credit Risk Manager, who evaluate The determination of ECL is based on an analysis of funds available to meet deposit withdrawals and the arrangements.
The Bank monitors the market value of the credit risks and determine the amount, terms and the assets at risk and reflects the amount which, in the amounts of interbank and other borrowing facilities that collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with conditions of the loan, which must be approved at the judgement of the Banks Management Board, is adequate should be in place to cover withdrawals at unexpected the underlying agreement and monitors the market value appropriate level of the Credit Committee.
In the case to provide for expected losses considering forwardlevels of demand.
of collateral obtained during its review of the adequacy of micro financing loans and SME loans of less than looking information.
of the allowance for ELC impairment losses.
The exposure US$ 1.0million, loan officers evaluate loan applications, The liquidity risk management framework models the to financial institutions is managed by limits covering prepare a project analysis and submit proposals to Provisions are made against gross loan amounts and ability of the Bank to meet its payment obligations under on and off-balance sheet exposures and by settlement the relevant Credit Risk Manager, who makes the final accrued interest.
Under the Banks internal loan loss both normal conditions and extreme circumstances.
The limits with respect to trading transactions such as foreign decision.
Loans of more than US$ 1.0 million to SMEs are allowance methodology, which is based upon IFRS Bank has developed a model based on the Basel III liquidity exchange contracts.
approved by the Head of SME Credit Risk Analysis unit.
requirements, the Bank categorises its loan portfolio guidelines.
This approach is designed to ensure that the into significant and non-significant loans.
Significant funding framework is sufficiently flexible to secure liquidity The Credit Committees approve individual transactions loans are defined as loans in excess of US$ 1.0 million under a wide range of market conditions.
The liquidity Collateral and the Credit Risk department establishes credit risk and non-significant loans are defined as loans below management framework is reviewed from time to time to The Bank typically requires credit support or collateral categories and the provisioning rates, which are set as US$ 1.0 million.
The Credit Risk department makes an ensure it is appropriate to the Banks current and planned as security for the loans and credit facilities that it per the provisioning methodology.
The Banks Deputy individual assessment of all defaulted significant loans.
Such review encompasses the funding scenarios, grants.
The main forms of credit support are guarantees CEO, Chief Risk Officer, the Credit Risk department and Non-defaulted significant loans are given a collective wholesale funding capacity, limit determination and and rights to claim amounts on the borrowers current the Portfolio Risk Management department review the assessment rate.
For the purposes of provisioning, all minimum holdings of liquid assets.
The liquidity framework account with the Bank or other assets.
The main forms credit quality of the portfolio and set provisioning rates, loans are divided into different groups such as mortgage, is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval by the Banks of collateral for corporate lending are charges over in consultation with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, consumer, micro loans.
real estate properties, equipment, inventory and trade ChiefFinancial Officer, on a monthly basis.
receivables and the main form of collateral for retail In 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other Georgian The Treasury and Funding departments also undertake an lending is a mortgage over residential property.
In the case The Banks credit quality review process provides early banks and with the CreditInfo hf, an international holding annual funding review that outlines the current funding of corporate loans, the Bank usually requires a personal identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of credit information bureaus and a provider of credit strategy for the coming year.
This review encompasses guarantee surety from the borrowers shareholders.
of counterparties, including regular collateral revaluations.
information solutions, established Credit Information trends in global debt markets, funding alternatives, peer Under the Banks internal guidelines, collateral should Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit Group CIG to serve as a centralised credit bureau analysis, estimation of the Banks upcoming funding be provided where it is required to cover outstanding risk classification system, which assigns a risk rating to in Georgia.
Most Georgian banks have shared negative requirements, estimated market funding capacity and a liabilities during the entire duration of a transaction.
Risk ratings are subject to regular customer information since July 2006.
The annual funding plan is reviewed s of 31 December 2018, 85.7% of the loan portfolio was revision.
The credit quality review process allows the Bank they also share and contribute positive and negative by the Banks Management Board and approved by the collateralised.
An evaluation report of the proposed to assess the potential loss as a result of the risks to which customer credit information to CIG.
Banks Supervisory Board as part of the annual budget.
collateral is prepared by the Asset Evaluation department it is exposed and to take corrective action.
The Bank makes The Funding and Treasury departments also review, from or by the third party asset appraisal company and available to its customers guarantees letters of credit, Effective 1 January 2018, loans up to US$ 1.0 million time to time, different funding options and assess the submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, together which may require that the Bank makes payments on their secured by real estate are subject to a write-off once refinancing risks of such options.
with the loan application and Credit Risk Managers behalf.
Such payments are collected from customers based overdue for more than 1,460 days.
When evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts the on the terms of the guarantee letter of credit.
They expose loans secured by collateral other than real estate are Mitigation: The Banks capability to discharge its market value of the assets to reflect the liquidation value the Bank to similar risks to loans and these are mitigated subject to a write-off once overdue for more than 150 liabilities is dependent on its ability to realise an equivalent of the collateral.
by the same control processes and policies.
Corporate loans and loans above US$ 1.0 million, amount of assets within the same period of time.
The secured by real estate, may be written off following an Bank maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and Measurement assessment by the Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer diverse assets that it believes can be easily liquidated in Loan approval procedures Exposure and limits are subject to annual or more frequent and the Credit Risk department.
the event of an unforeseen interruption of cash flow.
It The procedures for approving loans, monitoring loan review.
The Banks compliance with credit risk exposure also has committed lines of credit that it can access to quality and for extending, refinancing and or restructuring limits is monitored by the Credit Risk department on a The Group has completed its IFRS 9 implementation meet its liquidity needs.
Such lines of credit are available existing loans are set out in the Banks Credit Policies continuous basis.
The allowance is based on the Expected programme and adopted IFRS 9.
Financial Instruments from through the NBGs refinancing facility.
In addition, the that are approved by the Supervisory Board and or the Credit Loss ECL associated with the probability of 1 January 2018.
There were no material changes in credit Bank maintains a cash deposit obligatory reserve with Management Board of the Bank.
The Credit Committees default in the next 12 months, unless there has been a risk management practice at the Group as a consequence the NBG, the amount of which depends on the level of approve individual transactions.
significant increase in credit risk since the loan origination, of IFRS 9 application.
For further information see the customer funds attracted.
As of 31 December 2018, in line in which case the allowance is based on the ECL over Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
with the NBGs requirements, 25% of customer deposits The Bank evaluates Corporate Investment Banking clients the life of the asset.
The allowance for credit losses is in foreign currencies were set aside as minimum reserves.
on the basis of their financial condition, credit history, based on forwardlooking information, which takes In addition, the Bank maintains a minimum average balance business operations, market position, management, level Liquidity risk into consideration past events, current conditions and of 5% of its customers deposits in Georgian Lari on its of shareholder support, proposed business and financing forecasts of future economic conditions.
The Bank Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will be correspondent account at the NBG.
For wholesale funding plan and on the quality of the collateral offered.
The establishes the ECL of financial assets on a collective basis unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall and Certificates of Deposits, the NBG requires the Bank appropriate level of the relevant Credit Committee is and on an individual basis when a financial asset or group due under normal and stress circumstances.
to set aside 25% of its unsubordinated foreign currency responsible for making the decision for loan approval of financial assets is impaired.
The Bank creates the wholesale funding for borrowings with a remaining based on credit memorandum and, where appropriate, ECL by reference to the particular borrowers financial Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through the ALCOmaturity of less than one year which will be gradually the Credit Risk Managers report.
condition, the number of days the relevant loan is overdue, approved liquidity framework.
Treasury manages liquidity increased to 30% by the end of May 2019, as announced changes in credit risk since loan origination, any forecasts on a daily basis.
In order to manage liquidity risk, it by the NBG on 13 March 2019, 10% for borrowings with The loan approval procedures for Retail Banking loans for adverse changes in commercial, financial or economic performs daily monitoring of future expected cash flows a remaining maturity of one to two years which will depend on the type of retail lending products.
Applications conditions affecting the creditworthiness of the borrower on customers and banking operations, which is a part of be gradually increased to 15% by the end of May 2019, for consumer loans, including credit cards and auto loans and other qualitative indicators, such as external market the assets liabilities management process.
The Finance as announced by the NBG on 13 March 2019 and 5% up to GEL 50,000 are approved by the scoring system.
If in a subsequent period 56 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 57 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Risk management continued of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale funding As of 31 December 2018, Banking Business consolidated Banks proprietary trading position is limited by the ALCO Operational risk for borrowings with a remaining maturity of less than client deposits and notes were GEL 8,133.9 million to a maximum of 10% of the Banks total regulatory capital Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from one year.
There is no minimum reserves requirement for US$3,038.9 million as compared to GEL 7,078.1 million as defined by NBG.
The open currency position is also limited systems failure, human error, fraud or external events.
Georgian Lari Certificates of Deposits.
and GEL 5,755.8 million as at 31 December 2017 and by the ALCO to an annual VAR limit of GEL 50 million with When controls fail to perform, operational risks can 2016, respectively and represented 62.6% as compared a 98.0% tolerance threshold.
cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the majority of to 62.3% and 58.9% as at 31 December 2017 and 2016, implications, or lead to financial loss.
The Bank cannot working capital loans are short-term and granted with the respectively of total liabilities.
In accordance with The ALCO limits are more conservative than NBG expect to eliminate all operational risks, but through a expectation of renewal at maturity.
As such, the ultimate Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such requirements, which allow banks to keep open positions risk management and integrated control framework and maturity of assets may be different from the analysis deposits upon demand of a depositor.
In the case of early of up to 20.0% of regulatory capital.
The Bank also applies by monitoring and responding to potential risks, the Bank presented elsewhere.
In addition, the maturity gap withdrawal, the interest on the deposit is foregone or sensitivity stress tests to its open currency positions to aims to manage the risks.
analysis does not reflect the historical stability of reduced.
As at 31 December 2018, total amounts due to estimate any potential negative impact on its net assets current accounts.
credit institutions and debt securities issued were GEL and earnings.
Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational risks by 4,725.3 million US$ 1,765.4 million as compared to GEL establishing, monitoring and continuously improving its The Banks principal sources of liquidity are as follows: 4,164.8 million and GEL 3,925.7 million as at 31 December Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to interest rate policies and procedures relating to the various aspects deposits: 2017 and 2016, respectively and represented 36.3% as risk as a result of lending at fixed and floating interest of the Banks cash, payments, accounting, trading borrowings from international credit institutions: compared to 36.7% and 40.2% as at 31 December 2017 rates in amounts and for periods which differ from those and core processing operations and data back-up and inter-bank deposit agreements: and 2016, respectively of total liabilities.
Amounts due of term borrowings at fixed and floating interest rates.
The Bank has elaborated debt issuances: to credit institutions and debt securities are taken from Interest margins on assets and liabilities having different a framework, which is in compliance with normative proceeds from sale of securities: a wide range of counterparties.
maturities may increase or decrease as a result of changes acts defined by Georgian legislation and international principal repayments on loans: in market interest rates.
Regular review of and amendments to interest income: and the policy are performed by the Management Board fee and commission income.
Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority of the and overseen by the Risk Committee, which are also Banks assets and deposits have fixed interest rates.
responsible for setting an overall risk appetite.
The Banks Management Board believes that the Banks liquidity is sufficient to meet the present requirements.
In order to minimise interest rate risk, the Bank monitors For information on the Groups liquid assets, liabilities and the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities, its interest rate re-pricing gap and maintains an interest The Operational Risk Management department is as well as further information on the liquidity risk of the Group, see Note 27 and Note 29 of the Notes to the rate margin net interest income before impairment responsible for development of policies, processes and Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
of interest-earning assets divided by average interestprocedures for managing operational risks in all products, earning assets sufficient to cover operational expenses activities, processes and systems, consistently implementing and risk premium.
Within limits approved by the Banks Borrowed funds repayment schedule an operational risk framework throughout the Bank.
Supervisory Board, the ALCO approves ranges of interest The department is responsible for the identification and rates for different maturities at which the Bank may US$ million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 assessment of operational risks, detecting critical risk place assets and attract liabilities.
The Quantitative Risk Eurobonds 187 339 areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level, Management and Risk Analytics department analyses developing escalation processes, considering business Senior loans 53 70 85 33 84 4 4 2 duration gap and capital sensitivity to interest rate recommendations and mitigation action plans.
Interest rate risk levels for each currency are Subordinated loans 65 90 monitored by Finance, Treasury and Quantitative Risk Total 53 257 85 33 488 4 94 2 0 The Operational Risk Management Committee is Management and Risk Analytics.
responsible for setting and overseeing qualitative and % of total assets 1.0% 4.6% 1.5% 0.6% 8.8% 0.1% 1.7% 0.0% 0.0% quantitative parameters of operational risk appetite As of 31 December 2018, the Groups floating rate and tolerance.
borrowings accounted for 9.2% of the Groups currency exchange operations and counterparty risk and Market risk total liabilities.
the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Operational risks are identified and assessed by using Definition: The Bank is exposed to market risk including department monitors compliance with such limits.
several methodologies, including: internal loss database Prepayment risk: The Bank is also subject to prepayment currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, which is collection and analysis, scenario analysis, Risk and Control risk, which is the risk that the Bank will incur a financial the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial Currency exchange rate risk: Currency exchange rate Self-Assessment RCSA, new products assessment, and loss because its customers and counterparties repay or instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument Key Risk Indicators KRIs analysis.
To mitigate the impact request repayment earlier than expected, such as fixed variables.
Market risk exposure arises from mismatches of will fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency exchange of operational risk, the Bank applies approaches, including rate mortgages when interest rates fall.
The Bank reviews maturity and currencies between the assets and liabilities, rates.
The Bank is exposed to the effects of fluctuation the implementation of control elements in a business the prior history of early repayments by calculating the all of which are exposed to market fluctuations.
in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its process, segregation of duties, access, authorisation and weighted average effective rate of early repayments financial position.
The Banks currency risk is calculated as reconciliation procedures, and development of preventive across each credit product, individually, applying these Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks market an aggregate of open positions and is controlled by setting control tools within operating systems.
historical rates to the outstanding carrying amount of risk management policy are set by the ALCO.
The Bank a VAR calculation established by the ALCO with respect each loan product as of the reporting date and then aims to limit and reduce the amount of possible losses to the Banks currency basket.
To ensure that adequate risk management competency multiplying the product by the weighted average effective on open market positions which may be incurred by levels are achieved and maintained, the Bank provides annual interest rates for each product.
This allows the the Bank due to negative changes in currency exchange The Bank uses the historical simulation method based regular staff education and training courses as part of Bank to calculate the expected amount of unforeseen rates and interest rates.
The Bank classifies exposures on 400-business-day statistical data.
Its open currency the risk management process.
Specific risk management losses in the case of early repayments.
to market risk into either trading or non-trading positions.
positions are managed by the Treasury department on a training sessions are held on an annual basis aimed at Trading and non-trading positions are managed and day-to-day basis and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk providing an overview of the risk management framework.
For further information on the Groups market risk see monitored using different sensitivity analyses.
In order Management and Risk Analytics department.
The ALCO sets Note 27 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial to address these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes open currency position limits with respect to both overnight The Head of Operational Risk Management, who reports Statements of this Annual Report.
Value at Risk VAR limits on possible losses for each type and intra-day positions and stop-loss limits.
Currently, the to the Banks Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, is responsible of operation currently the VAR limit is set for foreign for the oversight of the Banks operational risks.
58 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 59 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Identifying, prioritising and managing our risks to support our goals and strategic objectives We outline the principal risks and uncertainties that are most likely to have an impact on our strategic objectives, business model, operations, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These principal risks are described in the table that follows, together with the relevant strategic business objectives, key drivers trends, material controls which have been put in place to mitigate the risks and the mitigation actions we have taken.
It is recognised that the Group is exposed to risks wider than those listed.
We disclose those which we believe are likely to have had the greatest impact on our business and which have been discussed in depth at the Groups recent Board, Audit or Risk Committee meetings.
The order in which the principal risks and uncertainties appear does not denote their order of priority.
It is not possible to fully mitigate all of our risks.
Any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Currency and macroeconomic environment PRINCIPAL RISK Macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, including depreciation of the Lari against UNCERTAINTY the US Dollar, may have a material impact on our loan book.
KEY DRIVERS The Groups operations are primarily located in, and most of its revenue is sourced from, TRENDS Georgia.
Macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, such as changes in GDP, inflation and Principal Risks and interest rates, may have a material impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, loan losses, our margins, and customer demand for our products and services.
The Georgian economy delivered a solid 4.8% estimated real GDP growth in 2018, compared to real GDP growth of 4.8% in 2017 and 2.8% in 2016, according to Geostat.
Uncertain and volatile global economic Uncertainties conditions could have substantial political and macroeconomic ramifications globally which in turn could impact the Georgian economy.
In 2018, the Lari depreciated against the US Dollar by 3.3%, after appreciating by 2.1% in 2017.
The volatility of Lari against Dollar has affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the quality of our loan portfolio, as well as increase the cost of credit risk and expected credit loss impairment provisions.
This is because our corporate, MSME and mortgage loan books are largely US Dollar-denominated and the majority of our customers income is Lari-denominated.
The creditworthiness of our customers may be adversely affected by the depreciation of Lari against US Dollar, which could result in them having difficulty repaying their loans.
The depreciation of Lari may also adversely affect the value of our customers collateral.
As at 31 December 2018, approximately 82.3% and 50.3% of our Corporate Investment Banking and Retail Banking loans, respectively, were denominated in foreign currency predominantly US Dollar, while US Dollar income revenue loans covered 6.2% of Retail Banking gross loans and 38.3% of Corporate Investment Banking gross loans.
Our cost of credit risk was 1.6% in 2018 compared to 2.2% in 2017.
60 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 61 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Currency and macroeconomic environment continued Regional instability MITIGATION The Group continuously monitors market conditions and reviews market changes, and also PRINCIPAL RISK The Georgian economy and our business may be adversely affected by regional tensions UNCERTAINTY performs stress and scenario testing to test its position under adverse economic conditions, and instability.
The Groups operations are primarily located in, and most of its revenue is sourced from, The Banks Asset and Liability Management Committee sets our open currency position limits Georgia.
The Georgian economy is dependent on economies of the region, in particular Russia, and the Banks proprietary trading position limits, which are currently more conservative Turkey, Azerbaijan and Armenia who are key trading partners.
than those imposed by the National Bank of Georgia NBG, our regulator.
The Treasury There has been ongoing geopolitical tension, political and economic instability and department manages our open currency position on a day-to-day basis.
The open currency military conflict in the region, which may have an adverse effect on our business and position is also monitored by the Banks Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics financial position.
In order to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we take into account currency KEY DRIVERS Russian troops continue to occupy the Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali South Ossetia regions and volatility when there is a currency mismatch between the customers loan and the revenue.
TRENDS tensions between Russia and Georgia persist.
Russia is potentially opposed to the eastward We allocate 75% additional capital to the foreign currency loans of clients, whose source of enlargement of NATO, including former Soviet republics such as Georgia.
The introduction income is denominated in Lari.
of a free trade regime between Georgia and the EU in September 2014 and the visa-free travel in the EU granted to Georgian citizens in March 2017 may intensify tensions between The Banks Credit Committees and Credit Risk department set counterparty limits by using the countries.
The Government has taken certain steps towards improving relations with a credit risk classification and scoring system for approving individual transactions.
The credit Russia, but, as of the date of this Annual Report these have not resulted in any formal or quality review process is continuous and provides early identification of possible changes legal changes in the relationship between the two countries.
in the creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional In June 2018, as a result of early parliamentary and presidential elections, amendments collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements.
to the Turkish constitution became effective.
The amendments which grant the president wider powers are expected to transform Turkeys system of government away from a Since the beginning of 2016, we have focused on increasing local currency lending.
We parliamentary system which could have a negative impact on political stability in Turkey.
actively work with IFIs to raise long-term Lari funding to increase our Lari-denominated loans to customers.
Furthermore, in June 2017, we completed the inaugural local currencyThere is an ongoing conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia which impacts the region.
denominated international bond issuance in the amount of GEL 500 million to support local currency lending.
MITIGATION The Group actively monitors regional and local market conditions and risks related to political instability, and performs stress and scenario tests in order to assess our financial position.
Applicable from the beginning of 2017, the NBG expanded the list of assets that banks are Responsive strategies and action plans are also developed.
permitted to use as collateral for REPO transactions, which provides an additional funding source for our Lari-denominated loan book.
Despite tensions in the breakaway territories Russia has continued to open its export market to Georgian exports since 2013.
While lower global commodity prices and macroeconomic As a result, as of 31 December 2018, our Lari-denominated loan book increased by 21.2% factors have affected Georgias regional trading partners, leading to lower exports within the y-o-y, while our foreign currency-denominated loan book increased by 17.7% in constant region, Georgia has benefited from increased exports earnings from non-traditional markets currency terms.
such as Switzerland, China, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Singapore.
In April 2017, the IMF approved a new three-year US$ 285 million economic programme, aimed at preserving macroeconomic and financial stability and addressing structural weaknesses in the Georgian economy to support higher and inclusive growth.
Implementation of the IMF programme is on track, with the authorities achieving all structural benchmarks set for specific periods.
On 20-26 February 2019, the IMF staff visited Georgia to discuss the recent economic and financial developments and progress with structural reforms.
In their end-of-mission statement, the IMF thanked the authorities for the open and constructive discussions and stated that they are looking forward to continuing the dialogue during the visit for the fourth review of Georgias IMF-supported programme in April and May 2019.
During 2018, Georgia delivered estimated real GDP growth of 4.8%, whilst inflation was well contained at 1.5% in December 2018, comfortably below the NBGs target of 3.0% for the year.
Tourist arrivals and remittances, a significant driver of Dollar inflows for the country, continued to increase.
The country recorded its first ever current account surplus in the third quarter of 2018, an extremely positive macroeconomic development for Georgia.
62 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 63 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Loan portfolio quality Loan portfolio quality PRINCIPAL RISK The Group may not be able to maintain the quality of its loan portfolio.
MITIGATION The Group continuously monitors market conditions and reviews market changes, and also UNCERTAINTY performs stress and scenario testing to test its position under adverse economic conditions.
The quality of the Groups loan portfolio may deteriorate due to external factors beyond the Groups control such as negative developments in Georgias economy or in the economies Our Credit Committees and Credit Risk department set counterparty limits by using a credit of its neighbouring countries, the unavailability or limited availability of credit information risk classification and scoring system for approving individual transactions.
The credit quality on certain of its customers, any failure of its risk management procedures or rapid expansion review process is continuous and provides early identification of possible changes in the of its loan portfolio see other currency risk above.
creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional The Groups Corporate Investment Banking loan portfolio is concentrated and to the extent collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements.
that such borrowers enter into further loan arrangements with the Group, this will increase the credit and general counterparty risk of the Group with respect to those counterparties The Group continuously monitors the market value of the collateral it holds against the loans.
and could result in deterioration of the Groups loan portfolio quality.
When evaluating collateral, the Group discounts the market value of the assets to reflect the liquidation value of the collateral.
Furthermore, the collateral values that the Group holds against the loans may decline, which may have an adverse effect on the business and financial position of the Group.
In terms of Corporate Investment Banking loan portfolio concentration, the Group aims to adhere strictly to the limits set by the NBG for client exposures, monitors the level of concentration in its loan portfolio and the financial performance of its largest borrowers KEY DRIVERS During 2018, the Groups cost of credit risk ratio was 1.6%, as compared to 2.2% in 2017.
TRENDS and uses collateral to minimise loss given default on its largest exposures, reduces guarantee Expected credit loss impairment charges and, in turn, the Groups cost of risk could increase exposures in the riskier sector and maintains a well diversified loan book sector concentration.
if a single large borrower defaults or a material concentration of smaller borrowers default.
As of 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Groups non-performing loans accounted for 3.3%, 3.8%, and 4.2% of gross loans, respectively.
Regulatory risk The Corporate Investment Banking loan portfolio is concentrated, with the Groups top ten Corporate Investment Banking borrowers accounting for 9.8% of the loan portfolio PRINCIPAL RISK Bank of Georgia operates in an evolving regulatory environment and is subject to regulatory gross of allowances for impairment as of 31 December 2018, as compared to 10.7% at UNCERTAINTY oversight of the National Bank of Georgia, supervising the banking sector and the securities 31 December 2017 and 11.8% at 31 December 2016.
The top ten Corporate Investment market in Georgia.
Banking borrowers accounted for 34.5% of the Corporate Investment Banking gross loan The financial sector in Georgia is highly regulated.
The regulatory environment continues to portfolio as of 31 December 2018, as compared to 35.5% at 31 December 2017 and 32.1% evolve.
We, however, cannot predict what additional regulatory changes will be introduced at 31 December2016.
in the future or the impact they may have on our operations.
As of 31 December 2018, the Group held collateral against gross loans covering 85.7% of the total gross loans.
The main forms of collateral taken in respect of Corporate Investment KEY DRIVERS Our banking operations must comply with capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios set Banking loans are liens over real estate, property plant and equipment, corporate guarantees, TRENDS by our regulator, the NBG, including reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios.
Our inventory, deposits and securities, transportation equipment and gold.
The most common ability to comply with existing or amended NBG requirements may be affected by a number form of collateral accepted in Retail Banking loans is a lien over residential property.
of factors, including those outside of our control, such as an increase in the Banks riskDownturns in the residential and commercial real estate markets or a general deterioration weighted assets, our ability to raise capital, losses resulting from deterioration in our asset of economic conditions in the industries in which the Groups customers operate may result quality and or a reduction in income levels and or an increase in expenses, decline in the value in illiquidity and a decline in the value of the collateral securing loans, including a decline of the Banks securities portfolio, as well as a weakening of global and Georgian economies.
to levels below the outstanding principal balance of those loans.
In addition, declining or unstable prices of collateral in Georgia may make it difficult for the Group to accurately value MITIGATION Continued investment in our people and processes is enabling us to meet our current collateral it holds.
If the fair value of the collateral that the Group holds declines significantly regulatory requirements and means that we are well placed to respond to any future changes in the future, it could be required to record additional provisions and could experience lower in regulation.
than expected recovery levels on collateralised loans past due more than 90 days.
Further In line with our integrated control framework, we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative changes to laws or regulations may impair the value of such collateral.
and regulatory changes as part of our formal risk identification and assessment processes and, to the extent possible, proactively participate in the drafting of relevant legislation.
As part of this process, we engage in constructive dialogue with regulatory bodies, where possible, and seek external advice on potential changes to legislation.
We then develop appropriate policies, procedures and controls, as required, to fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is subject to regular review by Internal Audit and external assurance services providers.
64 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 65 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Liquidity risk Operational risk, cyber-security, information systems and financial crime PRINCIPAL RISK The Group is exposed to liquidity risk when the maturities of its assets and liabilities UNCERTAINTY do not coincide.
PRINCIPAL RISK We are at risk of experiencing cyber-security breaches, unauthorised access to our systems Although the Group expects to have sufficient funding over the next 18 months and beyond UNCERTAINTY and financial crime, or failures in our banking activity processes or systems or human error, to execute its strategy and to have sufficient liquidity over the next 18 months and beyond, which could disrupt our customer services, result in financial loss, have legal or regulatory liquidity risk is nevertheless inherent in banking operations and may be heightened by implications and or affect our reputation.
a number of factors, including an over-reliance on, or an inability to access, a particular source of funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena, such as financial We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our risk management, internal controls market instability.
and systems, and internal processes including those related to data protection, IT and information security in order to manage these threats.
Credit markets worldwide have in recent years experienced, and may continue to experience, a reduction in liquidity and long-term funding as a result of global economic and financial KEY DRIVERS Cyber-security threats have continued to increase y-o-y and during 2018, we saw a number factors.
The availability of credit in emerging markets, in particular, is significantly influenced TRENDS of major international organisations subject to cyber-attacks, although fortunately, our by the level of investor confidence and, as such, any factors that affect investor confidence operations were not materially affected.
The external threat profile is continuously changing for example, a downgrade in credit ratings of the Bank, Georgia, or state interventions or and we expect threats to continue to increase.
debt restructurings in a relevant industry could affect the price or availability of funding for the Group companies, operating in any of these markets.
Over the past few years, as our operations have expanded, we have seen an increase in electronic crimes, including fraud, although losses have not been significant.
Money KEY DRIVERS The Groups current liquidity may be affected by unfavourable financial market conditions.
laundering, which the Bank has measures in place to guard against, has also increased TRENDS If assets held by the Group in order to provide liquidity become illiquid or their value drops globally in recent years.
substantially, the Group may be required, or may choose, to rely on other sources of funding to finance its operations and future growth.
Only a limited amount of funding, however, is MITIGATION We have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk management, available on the Georgian inter-bank market, and recourse to other funding sources may pose IT systems, corporate and other data security, each of which is managed by a separate additional risks, including the possibility that other funding sources may be more expensive department.
We also have an Anti-Money Laundering AML officer and controls in place.
In addition, the Groups ability to access such external funding sources We identify and assess operational risk categories within our risk management framework, depends on the level of credit lines available to it, and this, in turn, is dependent on the identify critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level and develop Groups financial and credit condition, as well as general market liquidity.
policies and security procedures to mitigate these risks.
In terms of current and short-term liquidity, the Group is exposed to the risk of unexpected, We have security controls in place including policies, procedures and security technologies.
rapid withdrawal of deposits by its customers in large volumes.
Circumstances in which We also regularly carry out IT and information security checks internally and with the customers are more likely to withdraw deposits in large volumes rapidly include, among assistance of external consultants.
We have sophisticated anti-virus protection and firewalls others, a severe economic downturn, a loss in consumer confidence, an erosion of trust in to help protect against potentially malicious software.
We have increased our internal and financial institutions or a period of social, economic or political instability.
If a substantial external penetration testing and have back-up disaster recovery and business continuity portion of customers rapidly or unexpectedly withdraw their demand or term deposits or plans in place across the Group.
We improved access control and password protections do not roll over their term deposits upon maturity, this could have a material adverse effect through the implementation of Privileged Access Monitoring for employees with the highest on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
privileged access to confidential and customer data.
We continue to invest in technology to enhance our ability to prevent, detect and respond to increasing and evolving threats.
MITIGATION The Group manages its liquidity risk through the liquidity risk management framework, which models the ability of the Group to meet its payment obligations under both normal Our Internal Audit function provides assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our conditions and crisis.
The Group has developed a model based on the Basel III liquidity risk management, internal controls and systems in place.
These types of operational risk are guidelines.
This approach is designed to ensure that the funding framework is sufficiently on the Audit Committees regular agenda and are also frequently discussed at Board level.
flexible to secure liquidity under a wide range of market conditions.
Among other things, the Group maintains a diverse funding base comprising of short-term sources of funding including Retail Banking and Corporate Investment Banking customer deposits, inter-bank borrowings and borrowings from the NBG and longer-term sources of funding including term Retail Banking and Corporate Investment Banking deposits, borrowing from international credit institutions, sales and purchases of securities and long-term debt securities.
Client deposits and notes are one of the most important sources of funding for the Group.
As of 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016, 90.8%, 91.4%, and 91.5%, respectively, of client deposits and notes had contractual maturities of one year or less, of which 55.1%, 56.5%, and 53.9%, respectively, were payable on demand.
However, as of the same dates, the ratio of net loans to client deposits and notes was 115.5%, 109.4%, and 116.1%, respectively, and the NBG liquidity coverage ratios were 120.9% and 112.4% as of 31 December 2018 and 2017, respectively.
66 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 67 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information The viability assessment involved a risk identification Going concern statement process which included recognition of the principal risks The Groups business activities, objectives and strategy, to viability risks that could impair the Groups business principal risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, excluding and performance are set out on pages 22 to 101.
After risks not sufficiently severe over the period of assessment.
making inquiries, the Directors confirm that they have The principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages a reasonable expectation that Bank of Georgia Group 60 to 67 in this annual report.
We also identified other and the Group, as a whole, have adequate resources to risks which, while not necessarily severe in themselves, continue in operational existence for the 12 months from could escalate when combined with others.
For each risk, the date the financial statements are authorised for issue.
we considered our risk appetite and tolerance, as well as Therefore, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt risk proximity and momentum.
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
For those risks considered sufficiently severe to affect our viability, we performed stress testing for the assessment Viability statement period, which involved modelling the impact of a combination of severe and plausible adverse scenarios.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, The Group has examined amont other, the following the Directors are required to assess the prospects of the stress scenarios over the assessment period: Georgian Group to meet its liabilities by taking into account its Lari depreciation against US Dollar, competition or current position and principal risks.
The Board performed market driven reduction in net interest margin, increase this review over a three-year period beginning 1 January Going Concern and in operating expenses resulting in higher cost-to-income 2019, being the first day after the end of the financial ratio, impairment of loan portfolio quality.
Each of year to which this report relates.
In determining the these scenarios are referred to in our principal risks appropriate period over which to make their assessment, and uncertainties.
The stress test scenarios were then the Directors considered the duration of strategic Viability Statements reviewed against the Groups current and projected plans and financial forecasts, which are usually set and liquidity position, considering current committed funding, prepared for a three-year period, the nature of the Groups capital adequacy and solvency.
The stress testing also took activities, as well as the evolving nature of the regulatory into account the availability and likely effectiveness of and macroeconomic environment in which the Group mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce operates.
A period of three years beyond the balance the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks sheet date was therefore considered the most appropriate to which the Group is exposed, such as a decline in lending viability period for the Group.
activity and reduction of operating expenses.
It also took into account the assumption that the Group will be able In order to consider the Groups viability, the Board to prolong or refinance existing borrowings, or increase considered a number of key factors, including: the financing from DFIs, on terms similar to existing ones.
the Groups financial and operational position, including The Directors have also satisfied themselves that they capital allocation and other key financial ratios: have the evidence necessary to support the statement the Boards risk appetite: in terms of the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Groups business model and strategy as set out management framework and internal control processes on pages 22 to 43: in place to mitigate risk.
the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 60 to 67: Based on the analysis described above, the Directors the effectiveness of our risk management framework confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that and internal control processes: and the Group will be able to continue operation and meet stress testing, as described below.
its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2021.
The key factors above have been reviewed in the context of our current position and strategic plan, financial budgets and forecasts assessed annually and on a three-year basis.
68 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 69 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information The concept of sustainability lies at the heart of our business and reflects our contribution to sustainable development As a Group, we recognise that we owe a duty not only Environmental matters to our shareholders but to the wider society in which we The Group recognises that its operations have both operate.
As a large employer in Georgia, it is incumbent an indirect and direct impact on the environment, and upon us to play a leading role in minimising our impact therefore seeks to establish management approaches upon the environment, to be an employer of choice and to which will help it become a more  drive positive change in society.
As a leading financial institution in Georgia, the to be integral to the growth of our business.
Our Bank, through the projects it finances, produces significant sustainability agenda allows us to be profitable as well as indirect impacts on the environment.
As for the direct environmentally and socially responsible.
By implementing environmental impact, we believe that the impact of a sustainability approach in our activities, we foster longthe Banking Business is not significant.
term relationships with our main stakeholders, providing high return on investment for shareholders, satisfying the financial needs of customers, developing employees Indirect environmental impact and contributing to the economic and social welfare through business operations of the local communities, while taking into account our The Group considers the interests of its main stakeholders environmental footprint.
customers, shareholders, employees, lenders and wider society when developing the strategy and the In 2018, the Board of Directors adopted an Environmental processes to improve its operations.
We continually strive and Social Policy for the Group BGEO Group, the to positively contribute to society through the entire predecessor of the Group, had the policy in place since scope of our business activities by developing sociallyResources and 2012 in order to effectively manage the Groups direct oriented products and services, implementing responsible and indirect impact on society and the environment.
approaches to our business operations, carrying out This policy describes the Groups strategy to develop solid sponsorship and charitable activities.
management controls to conserve natural resources, Responsibilities minimise health and safety risks, and provide employees In order to efficiently manage its indirect environmental with equal development opportunities, fair compensation and social impact, the Bank has prioritised the integration and benefits.
We are pioneering sustainability practices of sustainable finance principles into its credit risk in our operations and are constantly seeking new ways management procedures since 2012.
The Bank ensures to improve our performance.
it has a consistent approach to evaluating and managing the environmental, human health and safety risks of its The Group continues to be included in the global financed projects.
In all that the Bank does, it strives to responsible investment index FTSE4Good.
The index is find sustainable solutions that make business sense to designed to demonstrate strong Environmental, Social clients and minimise negative impacts on the social and and Governance ESG practices measured against natural environments.
Environmental and Social Risk Management ESRM This report sets out the policies we have in place to meet procedures were further updated in 2017.
The purpose of these responsibilities and the ways in which these policies the review was to ensure that the policy remains fit for have been implemented, and our achievements against purpose and reflects experience and changes in the relevant these over the course of 2018. legislation.
In 2017, the Bank updated the assessment procedures of low, medium and high risk projects and This section of the strategic report constitutes the Groups refined the monitoring procedures of the projects.
Non-Financial Information Statement, in accordance with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act.
The information to be disclosed under section 414CB has been included in the section below, with the exception of a description of the Groups business model, and principal risks and uncertainties which can be found on pages 22 and 60, respectively.
70 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 71 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued The main objective of the E&S Policy is to increase Environmental and social issues are tracked at project Training activities play an important role in enhancing Direct environmental impact environmental and social benefits for our clients.
sites in cooperation with the facility staff, providing the implementation of the Policy.
In 2018, the Bank We believe that the direct impact of the Banking Business Through ESRM procedures, the Bank enhances clients ongoing advice and guidance on good practice and provided training opportunities for the Head of Social on the environment is not significant.
Nevertheless, opportunities to be in compliance with national standards and monitoring compliance with the and Environmental Risk and the staff involved in we undertake a number of measures to reduce paper, environmental and social regulations and adopt requirements.
For environmental and social due environmental and social risk management processes.
Green Boxes are th international best practices in this area.
ESRM procedures diligence of certain high risk projects, the Bank contracts The Head of Unit participated in the 12 Annual placed on every floor of the Banks headquarters and are are periodically updated and approved by the Board of independent external experts.
As part of monitoring, Performance Standards Community of Learning designated to collect paper for recycling purposes.
Some Directors to ensure that the Policy remains fit for purpose the Bank requires each high risk client to provide the organised by the IFC.
The Community of Learning is a of the Banks paper-intensive departments switched to and reflects experience and changes in the relevant Bank with an annual report on their environmental and knowledge sharing forum aimed at strengthening the the principle of two monitors, which considerably reduces legislation.
ESRM procedures, along with other tools social performance and the implementation of applicable implementation of environmental and social standards paper waste.
The lighting system in all of the Banks necessary for their implementation, comprise the core Environmental and Social Action Plans.
Alternatively, by financial institutions in emerging markets.
The event service centres was replaced with energy efficient LED components of the Banks Environmental and Social Risk the Banks staff visits high risk clients on a regular basis.
provided a chance to exchange experience, learn from lamps, which consume far less electricity than traditional Management System ESMS.
Under this mechanism, investment case studies, and engage in dialogue among economical ones.
In 2018, the Bank outsourced 45% of Throughout 2018, the Bank held extensive Environmental the Bank endeavours to become an environmentally environmental and social risk management specialists its car fleet in order to reduce its fuel consumption.
and Social Due Diligence ESDD, where the Bank friendly financial institution.
A Social and Environmental Risk monitored clients and developed action plans for nonManagement Training was held to help risk managers Greenhouse gas emissions and compliant clients.
Thanks to the Banks efforts, some Furthermore, to ensure a more effective operation appropriately categorise the projects according to their clients conducted an environmental audit and obtained and maintenance of the ESRM Policy, the Social and environmental risk characteristics.
More generally, the calculating methodology the necessary environmental impact permits to continue Environmental Risk Unit was created in September 2016.
Bank has delivered several training sessions in this area We have reported on all of the emission sources required their business operations.
Those clients started to identify, Until then, the Environmental and Social Risk Coordinator and consequently more than 100 employees were trained under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and avoid, mitigate and manage environmental and social risks was responsible for the implementation of the Policy.
during the last five years.
Leading experts and state Directors Report Regulations 2013 Scopes 1 and 2 and their impact on the natural and social environment.
In 2018, we appointed a Social and Environmental Risk inspectors were invited as trainers.
We intend to continue and additionally have reported on those emissions under In addition, as a result of ESDD some clients took out Manager in the Social and Environmental Risk Unit, the trainings in the future.
Scope 3 that are applicable to our business.
All reported loans to enhance their companies power and ability who will oversee the practical, day-to-day implementation sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements, to reduce negative impacts on the environment and of the Banks ESMS.
In 2018, the Bank launched an Enhancement of which can be found on pages 154 to 283.
We do not positively benefit their communities.
Others implemented Environmental and Social System, supported by the have responsibility for any emission sources that are not environmental and social management systems in We implement the following procedures to ensure Green for Growth Fund within the framework of the included in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
the operation and maintenance of the ESMS: Green for Growth Fund Technical Assistance Facility We refrain from financing environmentally or socially GGF TAF.
The project focuses on strengthening the In preparing our emissions data, we have used the Procedures for addressing external queries and concerns, sensitive business activities mentioned in the exclusion Banks environmental and social framework for it to World Resources Institute World Business Council for developed within the framework of ESMS, provide lists of Development Finance Institutions such as EBRD, become a best-practice environmental and social Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse a means for the public to submit queries or concerns IFC, DEG, FMO and ADB, among others.
management system in the Georgian market.
The project Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting related to the Banks E&S Policy, and have these inquiries We aim to assess the relative level of environmental and aims i to assess current environmental and social Standard revised edition and emissions factors from responded to by the Bank in a timely manner.
In the social risk associated with clients businesses.
We require processes of the Bank versus relevant recommendations the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors Association Agreement between the European Union certain customers to implement specific environmental of international financial institutions and best international for Company Reporting 2016.
For wastewater treatment and Georgia, Georgia has committed to progressively or social action plans to avoid or mitigate their practice, in particular ISO 14001:2015 international and discharge operations we used conversion factors approximate its legislation in the relevant sectors with environmental and social impact and adhere to specific standard, ii to address gaps identified during the from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse that of the EU and to implement it effectively.
Through monitoring and reporting requirements that we set in assessment through revision and amendment of Gas Inventories.
this approximation process, Georgia is actively developing order to minimise environmental and social risk.
These documentation and processes, providing consultancy, and amending its national legislation in the relevant requirements are included as covenants in agreements recommendations and implementation support for the Our reported data is collected and reported on in sectors.
As a result, the Bank regularly checks legal between certain of our customers and the Bank.
necessary improvements, and iii to conduct a final respect of the Bank, which includes all of its offices and developments and updates with regard to environmental, We aim to regularly monitor environmental and social risks assessment of upgraded environmental and social retail branches, where the Bank has operational control.
health and safety, and labour issues and places great associated with the Banks activities, and assess clients procedures and systems to confirm our compliance The data is provided by on-site delegates, invoices and emphasis on the improvement of ESDD opportunities.
compliance with the terms of respective agreements.
with requirements and best-practice as defined in the metre readings.
The Banks staff are very focused on introducing clients initial phase of the project.
Staff trainings are one of to information about relevant existing and new Through ensuring comprehensive environmental and the deliverables of the project.
The project should be We have adjusted the 2017 and 2016 comparative regulations and laws during ESDD with the aim of social assessment and action plans, as a part of stable completed in 2019. greenhouse gas emissions in the table below to present strengthening public knowledge and capacity in the area due diligence, the Bank encourages its customers to fulfil the data only in respect of the Bank.
The full greenhouse of environmental and social protection.
their environmental and social obligations and establishes The Bank is committed to respecting the principles of gas emissions data for BGEO Group PLC for 2017 a framework for them to achieve good environmental sustainable development, protecting the environment, and 2016 can be found in BGEO Group PLC 2017 and social standards.
In many cases, the Banks proper and is willing to improve the level of public health safety Annual Report on the Groups website at and timely management of customers environmental as an essential element for sustainable development www.
and social risks has helped them to avoid financial and and economic growth.
The Bank will continue to conduct legal sanctions during inspections conducted by state business with due consideration to environmental and enforcement agencies.
social protection and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society.
The Bank will further help its clients benefit from a proper and diligent implementation of the E&S Policy.
72 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 73 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Another important project was financing coffee Social impact through Case study includes emissions from: production by Meama.
The main goal of the company business operations The village of Akhasheni combustion of natural gas, diesel and petrol in is to offer its customers high-quality coffee that are In 2018, Bank of Georgia financed a brand new hotel stationary equipment at owned and controlled sites: Bank of Georgia also continues to support Georgias processed in Georgia using modern equipment and in the village of Akhasheni a micro zone of Georgias and emerging economy by financing industries that are of technologies.
Meama has already built the coffee 2 winemaking region in Kakheti, Eastern Georgia.
The combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation fuel in owned strategic importance for the development of the country.
production plant and administration offices on 5,000m hotel was built by Kakhetian Traditional Winemaking transportation devices.
The company intends to supply the Georgian one of the major wine producers and exporters in market, as well as export its products to Azerbaijan, Corporate banking Georgia, and Bank of Georgias long-term partner, Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased Armenia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan within one to two Tourism with whom we have successfully cooperated on a for own use includes emissions from: years of production launching.
Tourism is an important pillar of Georgias economy number of projects, starting with a wine factory, used electricity at owned and controlled sites: to and the most rapidly growing industry.
The Bank actively later adding spirits production and rehabilitation of a calculate the emissions, we used the conversion Infrastructure provides financing for hotel constructions throughout the historic wine cellar in Kakheti.
With our most recent factor for Non-OECD Europe and Eurasia average Infrastructure development remains one of the most country and thus helps develop Georgian tourism brands project in Akhasheni we helped the company enter the conversion from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas important objectives in Georgia.
In 2018, the Bank and position the country as an attractive destination for hospitality sector in the heart of Georgias winemaking Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016. financed several significant infrastructure projects and travel and business.
The hotel has a capacity of 41 rooms equipped among them was the rehabilitation of the Khevi-Ubisa with modern facilities and offering unique cultural Scope 3 includes emissions from: segment of Western Georgias E60 highway.
Bank of Bank of Georgia financed a new hotel in the village experiences in winetasting and local cuisine.
The most air business travel short haul and long haul : Georgia supported the project by issuing letters of of Kachreti in Georgias famous wine region Kakheti.
attractive characteristic of the hotel is its location in information on the class of travel is unavailable, hence, guarantee in collaboration with Crdit Agricole, Deutsche The hotel was commissioned in 2018 by Ambassadori Akhasheni, which is one of the appellations for wines we used an average passenger conversion factor: Bank and Commerzbank.
The rehabilitation of the Group, a Georgian hotel chain that owns hotels in Tbilisi in Georgia and a wonderful destination for wine ground transportation, including taxis, coaches and second part of the E60 highway Ubisa-Shorapani is also and Kachreti.
The project financed by the Bank was an connoisseurs and tourists.
Bank of Georgia takes car hire: and supported by Bank of Georgia via letters of credit in expansion of an existing 182-room hotel in Kachreti, and pride in supporting wine tourism in Georgia and by data on emissions resulting from travel is reported collaboration with Socit Gnrale and HSBC.
upon completion of construction, an additional 106 rooms co-financing the hotel in Akhasheni, we are happy for business-related travel only and excludes were added to its capacity.
Besides wine tourism, the hotel to be playing our role in developing this beautiful commuting travel.
Very important projects are implemented to rehabilitate offers a wide range of recreational activities and has one winemaking region of Kakheti.
Bank of Georgia financed a of the few professional golf courses in Georgia and an German company Ludwig Pfeiffer Hoch-und Tiefbau 2 Olympic-size swimming pool.
Total greenhouse gas emissions data Tonnes of CO E GmbH & Co. to develop infrastructure and rehabilitate 2018 2017 2016 the water supply system in different regions of Georgia.
Among tourist destinations in Georgia, Batumi remains Scope 1 2,034 2,504 1,937 one of the most popular cities.
Bank of Georgia financed Scope 2 7,370 7,141 6,385 Energy Real Estate Development Company RedCo to build Electricity consumption continues to grow in Georgia and Scope 3 3,029 2,819 2,077 Batumi Tower a hotel, apartment and entertainment long-term investment in the energy sector remains one of complex in downtown Batumi.
Moreover, Bank of Georgia Total emissions 12,433 12,464 10,400 the top priorities in the country.
The Bank supported the supported RedCo in financing a set of important projects FTEs 5,828 5,501 5,016 winner of the tender run by Georgian State Electrosystem in Georgias most popular winter resort, Gudauri, namely for supply of various autotransformers, by issuing a letter Total emissions a five-star hotel under the Radisson brand and 26 other of guarantee.
The project is part of Georgias Ten Year per FTE 2.13 2.27 2.07 development projects.
In Tbilisi, the Bank financed Axis Towers a complex of Education premium class Hotel Pulman, residences and offices in In 2018, Bank of Georgia organised several meetings for the most prestigious part of the capital.
Another large its clients in order to enable a knowledge and information project the Bank funded in the capital was a Hilton Garden exchange among them.
The format of the meetings was multifunctional hotel in the centre of Tbilisi constructed informal and aimed to present the most successful Bank by A&A Company.
Bank of Georgia supported the latter Production and export of Georgia clients with an opportunity to share their by issuing a letter of guarantee.
In 2018, the Bank financed natural juices processing success stories with other clients.
One of the meetings company Aroma Product, which is a leading 100% export was held for female entrepreneurs and covered the In addition to these investments in larger complexes, the oriented fruit and vegetable processing company.
Bank challenges they encounter in their businesses, the solutions Bank actively finances increasingly popular budget hotels of Georgia financed the construction of a new production they reached and the overall experience they received as well.
Bank of Georgia funded GDG Group to construct plant in Kakheti.
The company acquired new filling all the way towards success.
We believe in the power of two budget 112-room hotels in the historic centre of Tbilisi.
machines that enable it to produce new types of pulpy knowledge-sharing and hope to help our clients achieve juices and high-viscosity products.
the objectives they set for their businesses.
74 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 75 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued Youth support In many cases of non-compliance, our proper and timely Retail Banking Micro, small and medium enterprises We developed a wide range of financial products to management of the environmental and social risks of Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and generate a MSME support young people in Georgia.
For example, via special our MSME clients has helped them to address issues wide range of socially-oriented financial products and We continue to provide financing to MSMEs, a backbone conditions of the Child Deposit we provide parents with that would otherwise have resulted in financial and services that provide additional value to individuals and of the Georgian economy that helps to ensure the the opportunity to secure their childrens future.
Starting legal sanctions from the state enforcement agency.
micro, small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and sustainable development of Georgia.
In addition to our from a minimal amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be meet their respective needs.
own microfinance and SME loan programmes, we also opened for at least two years at any time from a childs participate in various projects that support entrepreneurs.
Sponsorship and charity birth until the age of 18.
The annual interest rate 10.2% Express Banking Since 2015, the Bank has partnered with the non-profit As part of our sponsorship and charitable activities, the for Georgian Lari and 1.0%-3.5% for foreign currency The Georgian banking sector still experiences difficulties Agriculture Projects Management Agency APMA, which Group continues to focus on promoting and enhancing is added to the initial deposit.
In 2018, we opened in overcoming economic and geographical barriers in supports MSMEs in the agriculture sector.
Together, access to education, conserving nature, supporting people approximately 10,000 Child Deposit accounts.
expanding its financial services in remote regions and we have co-financed agriculture loans at fixed annual with disabilities and special needs, developing social among low-income segments of the population.
interest rates that are partially subsidised by APMA.
As of enterprises and facilitating innovative projects that focus The Bank also offers special products that allow young 31 December 2018, the total amount of gross loans that on social goods.
The Groups Sponsorship and Charity people to get a higher education.
Examples of such Our Express Banking service plays an important role in the Bank issued to MSMEs amounted to GEL 2.2billion, Policy encourages partnerships with various foundations products are student loans with favourable terms that addressing this issue.
of which c. GEL 177 million was issued through the and Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs to deliver do not require any financial guarantees and collateral.
As at 31 December 2018, a network of 165 Express Preferential Agriculture Lending Program.
sustainable results and bring positive change.
Sponsorship Total portfolio of student loans amounted to c. GEL 672 branches and 3,115 Express Pay terminals are located all and charity funds are channelled through the Banks Tree thousand by the end of 2018, while loans with a total over the country, including in remote mountain regions.
In 2018, the Bank continued to reinforce the financing of of Life Foundation that, in its turn, distributes funding value of c. GEL 253 thousand were issued in 2018.
Express financial products, such as Express Card, micro business owners and considers this segment as one by means of grant competitions in order to ensure Express Deposit and Express Loan are uncomplicated, of the main areas of its portfolio growth.
transparent and fair methods of financing.
The Group In 2016, the Bank partnered with the International easily accessible and affordable to a segment of the also implements its own social projects.
Educational Centre IEC and created a new opportunity population that would not have access to banking The Bank has dedicated staff and established processes for students to study abroad.
Students can apply for loans products and services otherwise.
By 31 December 2018, for its Micro-Express loans that target micro businesses In 2018, Tree of Life has allocated around GEL 1.7 million to finance tuition, living and insurance expenses abroad.
the Bank had attracted 538,729 clients, of which 48,701 and offer them loans under GEL 40,000.
Increasing the to support education, nature conservation, people with The loans have a grace period of maximum 27 months.
became clients of the Bank in 2018. automation and digitalisation is one of the cornerstones disabilities and special needs, social platforms, and the With a recommendation letter from IEC, the Bank of the Banks micro lending strategy to make their banking development of social entrepreneurship.
Bank of Georgia finances the students without requesting a confirmation As a part of the Express Banking service, we prioritise experience fast, smooth and enjoyable.
together with the Tree of Life Foundation established of income.
In 2018, the Bank extended the contract with the development of self-service skills.
We plan to expand a charity platform www.
ge, which connects the IEC and will continue to support students education.
the services offered by Express Pay terminals.
All of these Bank of Georgia is committed to further extending people in need with those who are willing to donate items, changes will provide a more accessible banking service financing to MSMEs.
Furthermore, the Bank is keen clothes, books, etc.
The platform offers collection, sorting Another example of the Banks products aimed at to our clients.
In 2017, the Bank developed web-based to develop financial products and lending practices and delivery of items.
In 2017-2018, 41,815 items were supporting young people is a social-educational project application processing tools that enable the completion to specifically service women-led MSMEs, which will collected with help from 428 donors and www.
ge sCool Card a multifunctional card for school children.
of a full lending cycle remotely.
ultimately increase their involvement in developing has already supported 1,360 beneficiaries.
The main objective of the project is to teach children Georgias private sector.
about financial culture and build their knowledge around Express Student Card offers special discounts on public financial services at an early stage.
sCool Card is available transport and free distance banking services, among In addition to assisting the MSMEs financially, the at no cost and all of the transactions and services are other benefits.
Moreover, students can get special Bank runs an MSME portal www.
sCool Card provides special benefits #StudentBreak discounts in various stores, cafs and portal provides financial and business-related advice to for children in Georgian public and private schools.
Students are automatically entrepreneurs in order to upgrade their financial literacy benefits include free public transport in Tbilisi metro, involved in the Plus loyalty scheme the Banks initiative and management skills and ensure the sustainable buses and Batumi buses, discounts for entertaining that offers different status levels to customers and development of their businesses.
The portal provides centres popular among children, bookstores, toyshops, reward points that accumulate based on the clients Bank of Georgia recognises the impact it can have on the entrepreneurs with information on trainings and equips children cafs, as well as the accumulation of points business with the Bank and can be redeemed into partner countrys social-economic development.
Therefore, the them with knowledge and skills in accounting, legal sCoola with each transaction.
companies products and or services, at the clients Bank launched a grant programme to support socially documents, business development, sales and marketing.
Plus points can also be converted into mobile driven enterprises in Georgia.
In 2016-2018, Bank of The Bank assists its clients in marketing products through In a further effort to help children better understand phone top-ups and used to pay public transport, utility Georgia supported ten social enterprises with up to GEL videos we create about them and publish on our pages banking products, the Bank opened a sCool Card Business bills and other products.
The programme encourages the 387 thousand and GEL 50 thousand per project.
#Icreate corners, located in Bank of School, where experienced staff provide free training student population to use financial services and supports same time, the Bank provided pro-bono services by helping Georgias branches, are also a great opportunity for clients about topics such as: The importance of money, Bank them financially during their studies.
the businesses in areas such as marketing, public relations, to exhibit and promote their products free of charge.
and me, Family budget, I am a manager, etc.
Bank of information technology, etc.
The Bank partners with Georgia and the sCool Card are the finalists of the Child various NGOs to maximise its role in the social cause.
Environmental and social risk management processes Friendly Banking Award 2017, The Global Inclusion Awards of MSME clients are embedded throughout the Banks 2017 Berlin, Germany.
By ensuring that comprehensive environmental Promoting and enhancing access and social risk assessments and the necessary action to education plans are undertaken, we encourage our MSME clients to Bank of Georgia University has offered a top quality be in compliance with national environmental and social masters degree programme since its foundation in 2014. legislation.
During site visits, we provide our clients with The university welcomed its fifth intake of MBA students advice and guidance on good practice and standards in in 2018 and simultaneously launched a bachelors degree these areas.
We update them on environmental, health programme in 2017.
The cost of studies in 2017-2018 and safety, as well as labour issues and monitor their were again largely subsidised by the Bank with GEL 767 compliance with environmental and social legislation.
76 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 77 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Resources and responsibilities continued thousand.
Up to 20 students study at no cost, while The Bank has been supporting every single TEDx Tbilisi Supporting people with disabilities Conserving nature 40 students benefit from a 0% loan with grace period conference since they were first organised in 2012.
A TEDx Since 2014, the Bank has focused its efforts on supporting Another priority of the Groups charitable activities is the until graduation.
Bank of Georgia University provides its conference is a locally organised TED format event, where people with disabilities one of the most vulnerable social preservation of wildlife diversity.
The Bank cooperates with students with hands-on experience by offering them the communities, organisations and individuals join to initiate groups in Georgia.
In 2018, the Bank donated up to GEL the Caucasus Nature Fund CNF and each year donates possibility to observe various business processes at the a conversation and connect with each other on different 75 thousand to the Tree of Life Foundation for this cause.
US$ 100,000 for the maintenance of ten protected Groups companies.
topics, which are important to society.
The Tree of Life Foundation distributed the funds through areas: Borjomi-Kharagauli, Lagodekhi, Tusheti, Vashlovani grant competitions one intended for the relevant NGOs Mtirala, Javakheti, Kazbegi, Algeti, Kintrishi and PshavIn 2013, the Bank became the first Georgian company to In 2018, Bank of Georgia became a general sponsor of the that work with people with disabilities and another with Khevsureti.
cooperate with one of the most prestigious scholarship Georgian National Olympic Committee, which the Bank the specific aim of promoting social entrepreneurship.
In programmes in the world the Chevening scholarship.
will support in all of its planned sports activities up until order to qualify for the competition, the proposals had to In order to promote eco-tourism in Georgia, the Banks This cooperation provides Georgian students with an 2020.
In 2018, the Bank granted monetary awards to the focus on the creation of a small enterprise with a social Tree of Life Foundation financed an eco-camp in Lagodekhi opportunity to pursue education in the UK.
In 2018, the best young Georgian sportsman of 2018, selected by the component aimed at improving the livelihood of people Protected Area in Kakheti, Eastern Georgia.
The eco-camp Group provided up to GBP 100 thousand to finance Georgian National Olympic Committee, and to the winner with disabilities.
can host 50 visitors at a time and is equipped with water a masters degree programme for three students.
The of the boys Greco-Roman 60kg competition at the 2018 closets, kitchens, a wooden cafeteria, and communication partnership with Chevening will continue next year and Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Moreover, the visitors can hold conferences, the Group is looking forward to selecting students who Banks partnership with the Georgian National Olympic training, sport competitions, screen films and organise Case study will continue their studies in the UK.
Committee aims to support and popularise sport in events in open air.
The camp has a space for tents, A social enterprise Tsnuli Georgia, to raise awareness of Georgian athletes and including large ones designed for people with disabilities.
Bank of Georgia financed a social enterprise, Tsnuli, to provide information on Olympic Games.
The eco-camp received its first visitors in the summer founded by the People with Disabilities Union in Kaspi of 2018 and had hosted c. 800 people by the end of a town 65 km from Tbilisi.
The camp employs five people, including people handmade wood-woven products of various shapes with disabilities.
Case study and sizes, namely, baskets, lamps, furniture, etc.
Tsnuli In 2018, Bank of Georgias Corporate Investment employs seven beneficiaries with disabilities, who were Banking team organised a charity auction-exhibition taught the craft in just three months.
Employment of modern Georgian paintings and invited its top in Tsnuli gave the beneficiaries a unique opportunity clients to participate in the cause.
As a result, In 2014, the Bank signed a partnership agreement with to learn new skills and materialise their newly gained US$ 75,000 collected from the auction was rounded the prestigious US Fulbright scholarship scheme.
Thanks know-how in a supportive atmosphere.
The enterprise to US$ 100,000 by the Bank and the amount is to the Bank of Georgias contribution, a selected number aims to improve the quality of life of its employees and directed at financing extremely talented children from of students from Georgia are able to enrol in a two-year plans to expand in the future and benefit even more Georgias highlands.
The first batch of five children masters degree programme at a US university.
will study English in summer school in the UK.
These the funding provided to the students for their two-year children gained huge popularity on social media for degrees amounted to US$ 50 thousand.
Since 2014, the popularising Georgian regions.
Bank has granted US$ 300 thousand to the US Fulbright scholarship programme.
In order to raise awareness about conserving nature and the importance of ecology, Bank of Georgia is actively involved in a number of activities such as World Cleanup Starting from 2018, Bank of Georgia supports San Diego Day.
Over the last two years, the Bank has recycled around State University SDSU Georgia.
For 2018-2019 academic eight tonnes of used paper in its headquarters and saved year the Bank will finance the scholarships for ten 136 trees as a result.
students in the amount of up to US$ 80 thousand.
In 2018, Bank of Georgias employees continued using a car Over the last four years, the Bank has been supporting pooling application called Gzad.
The application enables a public speaking competition organised by the English them to share a ride to and from the Bank, which in turn Speaking Union Georgia.
The competition allows high school helps reduce air pollution and ease the traffic in Tbilisi.
The Bank continues to focus on the adaptation of its own senior year or first year university students to prepare a infrastructure.
In 2018, an additional ten service centres speech on a pre-selected topic and present it in front of a became available for people with disabilities.
The winner is granted a fully paid trip to In our effort to spread internet access to financially London to attend a global public speaking competition.
disadvantaged families in Georgia, we support a social We aim to support this competition in 2019 as well.
We believe that this project is crucial for access to education.
In 2018, we granted laptops and access to internet to 19 families near the conflict zone in the village of Dvani.
78 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 79
