Risk management Structure and governance overseeing risk Barclays is exposed to internal and external risks as part of our ongoing activities.
These risks are managed as part of our business model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework At Barclays, risks are identified and overseen through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF, which supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF specifies the Principal Risks of Barclays and the approach to managing them.
The management of risk is embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and controlling risk.
Risk Appetite Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are willing to take across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of financial and operational stress.
Risk Appetite is key for our decision making process, including ongoing business planning, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
In recent years we have taken significant Monitoring the risk profile Three Lines of Defence steps to fide-risk our business, setting us The First Line of Defence is comprised of the Together with a strong governance process, up for sustainable growth in the future.
using Business and Group level Risk revenue generating and client facing areas, The management of risk is embedded into along with all associated support functions, Committees as well as Board level forums, each level of the business, with all colleagues the Board receives regular information in including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources being responsible for identifying and and Operations and Technology.
The First Line respect of the risk profile of the Group, and controlling risks.
has ultimate responsibility for Risk Appetite identifies the risks, and sets the policies, standards and controls, within the criteria set and capital plans.
by the Second Line of Defence.
We believe that our structure and governance The Second Line of Defence is made up of Risk will assist us in managing risk in the changing and Compliance and oversees the First Line by economic, political and market environments.
setting the limits, rules and constraints on their operation, consistent with the Risk Appetite.
The Third Line of Defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance to the Board and Executive Committee.
Although the Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, it works to support them all and plays a key role in overseeing Legal Risk throughout the bank.
The Legal function is also subject to oversight from the Risk and Compliance functions with respect to the management of operational and conduct risks.
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risk management Risks are classified into Principal risks, as below How risks are managed Financial principal risks Credit risk The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully monitor various forms of credit exposure, individually honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and in aggregate.
and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
Market risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes A range of complementary approaches to identify and in the value of the firms assets and liabilities from evaluate market risk are used to capture exposure to fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited market risk.
These are measured, controlled and to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, monitored by market risk specialists.
commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury and Liquidity risk: Treasury and capital risk is identified and managed Capital risk The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or by specialists in Capital Planning, Liquidity, Asset and contingent obligations or that it does not have the Liability Management and Market Risk.
A range of appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding approaches are used appropriate to the risk, such as: and liquidity to support its assets.
limits: plan monitoring: and stress testing.
Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the Banking Book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
Non-financial principal risks Operational risk The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed The Group assesses its operational risk and control processes or systems, human factors or due to external environment across its businesses and functions with a events e. g. fraud or cybercrime where the root cause is view to maintaining an acceptable level of residual risk.
not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk The risk of the potential adverse consequences from Models are evaluated for approval prior to financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or implementation, and on an ongoing basis.
misused model outputs and reports.
Reputation risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a controlled will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by culture within the Group, with the objective of acting with clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be or the public.
built with customers and clients, colleagues and broader society.
Conduct risk The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market The Compliance function sets the minimum standards integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate required, and provide oversight to monitor that these risks supply of financial services, including instances of wilful are effectively managed and escalated where appropriate.
Legal risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages The Legal function supports colleagues in identifying or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal and limiting legal risks.
obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 29
