Barclays UK Leaders in innovation In 2018, we helped over 110,000 customers take out a mortgage or further borrowing on Personal Banking their property, 22,000 of whom were first-time Our Community and Premier Banking buyers.
We continue to help our customers on team develop transparent and innovative their home-buying journey with 1.5% growth solutions for our customers.
We help in gross lending year-on-year.
customers move forward by putting them Demonstrating our commitment to Barclays at the heart of everything we do, Groups green finance agenda, we were the connecting the different aspects of their first major UK bank to offer a Green Mortgage lives to their financial lives, at the time product.
The Barclays Green Home Mortgage that suits them.
This ranges from rewards customers with lower rates on certain opening their first bank account to deals when purchasing new energy efficient completing a mortgage on their homes and builds upon Barclays green dream home.
Savings, Investments & Wealth Savings, Investments and Management serves a spectrum of Wealth Management clients from those who manage their In 2018, we brought our Savings proposition own investments, requiring an execution Barclaycard Consumer UK together with our Wealth and Investments service, to those who require a dedicated business, so that we can seek to offer our Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading and holistic service through our Wealth customers and clients a flawless experience, credit card provider, providing flexible Management division.
whatever stage they are at in their savings borrowing and payment solutions to and investments journey.
around 10 million customers in the UK.
We help people move forward, by helping We launched our Flexible Monthly Income Community and Premier Banking them to borrow and pay in the way that Bond, which enables customers to deposit suits them.
We are a responsible lender, Throughout the year, we have helped our a lump sum for a three-year term and then Community and Premier customers go providing credit based on credit history, drawdown the capital on a monthly basis to forward through a range of both new ability to afford credit and our risk supplement their income.
This is a unique and products and propositions as well as appetite, while seeking to deliver a innovative product designed for customers enhancements to existing ones.
in the retirement segment, with the launch linked to National Pension Awareness Day.
We have made a range of enhancements to BMB in order to help our customers manage Customers who want instant access to their their finances more effectively.
As well as being savings can now open an Everyday Saver able to view current accounts from other account entirely through BMB.
We have seen banks, we continue to give customers more a huge customer response to this with over In 2018, we have looked at further ways control of their financial lives.
Misplaced 60% of Everyday Saver accounts opened to meet the needs of our customers.
debit cards can now be temporarily frozen digitally in 2018.
At Barclaycard Consumer UK, we inspire through BMB, preventing any cash machine confidence by making sure everything we do In our Wealth Management business we withdrawals and online or in-store debit is secure, reliable and useful to our customers card purchases.
We have also implemented continued our focus on growth throughout and clients, like giving our customers 24 7 2018, with a number of new hires and a calendar view feature showing regular fraud protection to keep their money safe payments scheduled for the month ahead to continued strong levels of new client and equipping customers with the knowledge acquisition.
However, challenging market assist in better financial planning, as well as an to protect themselves from fraud.
Our Fraud improved view of transaction details, including conditions have resulted in overall assets Fighter campaign highlights that fraud is under management falling year on year.
a map view, so our customers can identify not always so easy to spot and encourages with whom they have spent their money Investment will continue to be made to customers to use our Fraud Fighter Tool.
improve the client experience and productivity more quickly and easily.
of our Wealth Managers during 2019.
We continued working to better understand We continued to reward customers who the needs of different customer circumstances chose to bank with us, launching two After a difficult start to the year, with issues and help put the customer in control.
We switching campaigns in 2018 based on relating to the migration of customers to our launched a credit build tool that offers tips our Blue Rewards proposition.
Our first digital investing proposition, Smart Investor, and advice to help customers build their credit campaign offered double rewards for a year we have worked to enhance the platform in score.
We helped customers move forward for switching, followed by a subsequent 2018 for example customers can now sign this year with our first ever product upgrade campaign offering double Rewards for up to Smart Investor via BMB.
However, there from Initial to Platinum for qualifying price Community and triple Rewards for Premier remains work to do in 2019 to turn the promise customers we upgraded customers customers for switching to a Barclays Current platform into a leading digital investments who kept their accounts in order for Account through the Current Account Switch offering.
To this end, we have a confirmed 12 months to help them further build their Service.
1.4 million customers now benefit 2019 delivery roadmap, based on client credit score and go forward to do the things from Blue Rewards, including Cashback, feedback, that will see significant upgrades they want to do, with confidence, every day.
to the platform throughout the year.
32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information We are also committed to ensuring more transparency with our customers, not just Island dream becomes Business Banking in the ways that we communicate with them, reality thanks to funding Business Banking offers products, but by simplifying the ways that our products services and specialist advice to over one work.
Over the last year, we have waived from Barclays million clients in the UK, ranging from interest charges on purchases that are paid Laura Pitchford from North Wales has start-ups to mid-sized businesses, to in full if a card also has a promotional balance.
secured funding from Barclays to take help them achieve their goals.
Under this new scheme, cardholders that ownership of a community coffee shop make new purchases during the billing cycle on the Isle of Mull that she has visited and pay them off in full by their payment due since childhood.
The business loan date will no longer pay any interest on those enabled her to purchase the business transactions, thus removing the need for which includes tearooms and selfcustomers to use separate cards for their Business Banking provides support to clients catering accommodation, a centre spending and balance transfers.
across the UK at all stages of their business point in the local community.
cycle through a relationship-based and We continue to challenge ourselves to think digitally-driven service.
Laura and her family have been repeat differently and create a model that lowers visitors there for 15 years and while complaints and provides better customer Our UK-wide network of experts has helped visiting last summer, Laura asked the experience while delivering sustainable thousands of businesses get started and grow, owner if she ever planned on selling.
Customers want relevant, with access to specialist industry insights six months later, the call came offering personalised payment and borrowing options, across key segments such as Agriculture and Laura the chance to make her island coupled with perfect digital-driven Real Estate.
We also support a legacy portfolio dream a reality.
experiences and they want those experiences of Education, Social Housing and Local to come to them, in the digital channels they Laura approached her local Barclays Authorities ESHLA clients.
Although new choose, at the moment thats right for them.
lending to ESHLA clients is met through Relationship Manager to support her In a first for any of Barclays UKs retail banking ambitions, Running my own business Barclays International, Barclays UK continues products, customers can now acquire a to support ESHLA clients, for example, by is something Ive wanted to do for some Barclaycard credit card on an external time said Laura.
Im really excited about agreeing a number of mergers within social Open Banking Mobile app.
the future and looking forward to housing, which gives clients the capacity to adapting to the island way of life.
Thanks continue building more new homes to to the support from Barclays, the dream address UK housing needs.
Barclays was the first major UK Ive had for years has become a reality.
Innovation is an integral part of our strategy bank to offer a Green Mortgage A Barclays spokesperson said: At for growth and continues to be at the product.
The Barclays Green forefront of our services.
In 2018, we Barclays were passionate about helping Scotlands business owners at every announced a number of key partnerships Home Mortgage rewards with Fintech businesses, such as our stage of their journey.
We were able to customers with lower rates on offer Laura a local relationship manager, industry-leading collaboration with PayPal, enhancing customers digital payments, who understood her ambitions and certain deals when purchasing helped her to take ownership of the saving SMEs time and putting them in control, new energy efficient homes and with access to marketing, inventory and other business.
With Barclays backing, Lauras island plans have now become a reality.
valuable data all in one place.
We collaborated builds upon Barclays green with MarketInvoice, Europes largest online product offering.
invoice financing platform, providing small businesses with access to invoice financing products and transforming the way SMEs manage cash flow and accelerate growth.
We also launched 100,000 unsecured lending limits for SMEs, doubling our maximum limits for unsecured business loans for eligible clients, making small business lending faster, simpler and easier.
This adds to our existing unsecured lending offering which allows qualifying SME clients to access pre-assessed affordable lending up to 25,000 via our mobile app and through online banking, often receiving the cash that same day.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 33
