Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Overview Reserve on the IHCs first-ever public stress Barclays International consists of the Corporate test submissions, indicating the strength of Investing in electronic and Investment Bank CIB and Consumer, the IHCs capital position.
The IHC, which we trading capabilities to Cards and Payments CCP.
With relentless established in 2016, is an umbrella holding focus on delivering for customers and clients in company for our US subsidiaries, including the increase share in Markets our UK and US home markets and around the US broker-dealer that operates key investment Upgrading our cross-asset electronic world, Barclays Internationals diversified banking businesses and the entity that trading platform, BARX, provided business portfolio provides balance, resilience operates Cards & Payments in the US.
significant fuel for our Markets business and exciting growth opportunities.
The division Risks to the operating model standout performance this year.
For has strong global market positions, and Geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty example, the overhaul of our e-Rates continues to invest in people and technology in in some markets remain a risk, while the platform is driving a tenfold increase in order to deliver sustainably improved returns.
volume and reach of regulatory change electronic trading of interest rate swaps continues to require significant attention.
Strategy by our buyside clients.
Our new Equities Barclays International has a transatlantic platform, featuring industry-leading algo The potential impact of longer-term footprint anchored in the worlds deepest and capabilities, is generating significantly uncertainty is a sustained low rate environment, most sophisticated capital markets, London higher volumes from our clients and very predominately impacting revenues and driving and New York.
The clients who cautious market activity.
This was evident in generate the highest returns do more Barclays International offers clients and 2018, and created a challenging operating business with firms who deliver a customers a range of products and services environment for corporate and investment consistently strong market-making spanning retail banking and wealth banking activities in particular.
offering across asset classes, so we are management, credit cards and payments, and As we accelerated our growth efforts in 2018, committed to extending our BARX corporate and investment banking.
The we increased our focus on ensuring that new investment in order to meet and exceed diversified business model provides Barclays revenue opportunities do not compromise our those client expectations, and to drive shareholders with a mix of revenue streams prudent approach to risk, or our ability to profitable growth in our franchise.
that benefit from the different stages of the generate sustainable returns.
Coupled with worlds economic cycles.
our cost efficiency programmes, this balanced several experienced professionals to bring We are making strategic investments to seize approach is designed to deliver a more attractive bottom line.
complementary skills to our leadership team, the clear growth prospects each business and made strategic appointments in areas where presents.
Similarly, we continue to build a great We have a conservative risk profile, and continue we see opportunities for growth, including a culture where our strong conduct and rigorous to work to maintain the quality of our lending significant number of internal promotions.
controls environment enable us to deliver the book.
The quality of our US credit card portfolios right outcomes for all our stakeholders.
To enable our people to deliver the best has been consistent with the overall industry outcomes for our customers and clients, Market and operating environment and key competitors.
After an increase in we focused our technology investment on The markets in 2018 were characterised by US delinquency rates in 2017, rates moderated for commercially impactful enhancements, and economic outperformance, including further both the industry and Barclays in 2018.
Loss and this focus remains a hallmark of the divisions labour market improvements and on-target arrears rates are still below the long-term strategy for the year ahead.
Against this backdrop, shortaverage and below pre-recession levels, driven in ranged from new data science and algorithmic term US interest rates increased further, ahead part by favourable US GDP growth and low capabilities, to an enhanced digital experience of other core markets, and the US dollar unemployment rates.
We continue to monitor for our customers and clients.
While market volatility remained overall growth in unsecured debt across the generally low, isolated bouts of volatility resulted industry, particularly relative to wage growth, We are already seeing results of investing in in a more uneven equity performance.
In the and during 2018 unsecured debt growth slowed our businesses.
For example, our Equities UK, growth softened further amid heightened to 4.9%, compared with 6.7% in 2017. franchise delivered a standout performance uncertainty around Brexit developments, this year, with revenue growth outpacing We continue to invest to ensure our reflected in a volatile and depreciating sterling.
Similarly, we are seeing growth in infrastructure is resilient to cybercrime, our newly launched US consumer loans Barclays has been working on plans with respect conducting comprehensive penetration testing, product, which complements our US cards supported by the deployment of a number of to the UKs departure from the EU in 2019.
plans are driven by an overriding commitment to best-in-class malware detection tools.
preserve seamless ongoing EU market access for During the year, we continued to contribute to Key highlights of the year Barclays and our customers and clients.
A key society, from launching a new housing Barclays International delivered profit before element of our plans was to seek regulatory development fund to creating pathways to tax across all four quarters of 2018 authorisations from the Central Bank of Ireland employment, and from mentoring demonstrating the increasing ability of our and the European Central Bank to expand the entrepreneurs to structuring  portfolio of businesses to deliver the operations of Barclays Bank Ireland PLC linked loans.
sustainable growth our shareholders expect.
Barclays has had a banking licence in Building on our progress is the mission of Ireland for almost 40 years.
During 2018, We continually evaluate our entire portfolio of every colleague in Barclays International.
businesses for capital, leverage, risk assets Barclays received the necessary authorisations, We are confident in our ability to build on the scaled up our presence in Ireland, and began and funding across all jurisdictions and legal commercial focus we demonstrated in 2018, entities.
This helps us to further enhance both the transfer of our European branches from and to deliver the right outcomes for all our BBPLC to BBIPLC.
We remain confident in our our operational discipline and precision in our stakeholders.
capital allocation to deliver stronger returns.
ability to serve our customers and clients once the UKs withdrawal is complete.
Tim Throsby Identifying the right talent to execute on our CEO, Barclays International Our US Intermediate Holding Company IHC ambitions remains fundamental to our growth received positive feedback from the US Federal strategy.
Over the course of the year, we hired home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 35
