Risk review Supervision and regulation e Conduct, culture and other regulation may be made available or stored in countries has very broad extra-territorial application and may impact entities, persons or activities Conduct and culture other than where it was originally collected.
On 7 March 2016, the PRA and FCA The proper handling and protection of located outside the UK, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
It also requires Barclays introduced measures to increase the personal data is very important to our clients, individual accountability of senior managers employees and to regulators, and there can Group to have reasonable prevention procedures in place to prevent the criminal and other covered individuals in the banking be considerable regulatory fines for breaches sector.
The new regime comprises: the for example, up to 4% of global turnover facilitation of tax evasion by persons acting for, or on behalf of, Barclays Group.
Senior Managers Regime, which applies to under GDPR.
a limited number of individuals with senior A number of recent developments have In the US, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA management responsibilities within a firm: indicated a clear political and regulatory desire PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations thereunder the Certification Regime, which is intended to make customer account information and contain numerous anti-money laundering to assess and monitor the fitness and transactional services more easily accessible and anti-terrorist financing requirements propriety of a wider range of employees who to customers and parties providing services for financial institutions.
In addition, could pose a risk of significant harm to the to them, such as the revised Payment Services Barclays Group is subject to the US Foreign firm or its customers: and conduct rules that Directive PSD2 and the Open Banking Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits certain individuals subject to either regime must initiative.
PSD2 replaced the previous Payment payments to foreign officials, as well as comply with.
From March 2017, the conduct Services Directive and, with respect to certain rules and regulations relating to economic rules have applied more widely to other requirements, has a wider scope, applying sanctions and embargo programmes staff of firms within the scope of the regime.
transparency and information requirements administered by the US Office of Foreign The regime will be expanded to apply to to payment transactions in all currencies Assets Control which restrict certain business all firms authorised under FSMA from where the provider of at least one leg of the activities with certain individuals, entities, 9 December 2019.
The Financial Services Act payment service is located in the EU.
2010, among other things, requires the UK also requires banks which provide accounts Two significant new regulatory rules came regulators to make rules about remuneration to enable access to those accounts through and to require regulated firms to have a into force in the US in 2018: the New York dedicated technology to allow third parties Department of Financial Services DFS remuneration policy that is consistent with to provide account information and payment effective risk management.
Rule 504 and the US Department of Treasurys initiation services.
The requirements relating Financial Crime Enforcement Network to this technology will come into effect in The Banking Act also amended FSMA to FinCEN Customer Due Diligence CDD Rule.
allow the FCA to make rules requiring firms September 2019.
Rule 504 enumerates detailed transaction to operate a collective consumer redress Cybersecurity and operational resilience filtering and screening requirements for scheme to deal with cases of widespread potential Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money Regulators in Europe and the US have been failure by regulated firms to meet regulatory increasingly focused on cybersecurity risk laundering violations and transactions with requirements that may have created sanctioned entities, applicable to institutions management and operational resilience consumer detriment.
This has resulted regulated by the DFS including Barclays Bank PLC, New York branch and requires a Our regulators have also enhanced their in a number of proposed laws, regulations focus on the promotion of cultural values as and other requirements that necessitate senior bank official to certify compliance.
The CDD Rule requires Barclays Group US a key area for banks, although they generally the implementation of a variety of increased view the responsibility for reforming culture controls and enhancement activities for entities to identify natural beneficial owners above a certain threshold for clients that are as primarily sitting with the industry.
These include, among others, the adoption of legal entities.
Strategic review of retail banking cybersecurity policies and procedures meeting In some cases, US state and federal regulations business models specified criteria, minimum required security addressing sanctions, money laundering and The FCA conducted a strategic review of measures, controls and procedures for other financial crimes may impact entities, retail banking business models throughout enhanced reporting and public disclosures, persons or activities located outside the US, 2017 and 2018 and published its final report compliance certification requirements, and including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
The FCA has used the other cyber and information risk governance The enforcement of these regulations has analysis to inform its view of emerging measures.
These increased controls will been a major focus of US state and federal scenarios in retail banking and their impact on enhance our security posture and increase government policy relating to financial business models and consumers.
It concluded our ability to protect the organisation and that increased competition has the scope to institutions in recent years, and failure of our customers.
Such measures may result a financial institution to ensure compliance improve outcomes for many consumers but in increased technology and compliance it takes time.
As a result of this review the could have serious legal, financial and costs for Barclays Group.
reputational consequences for the institution.
FCA will initiate work in payment services, SME banking and monitoring of retail banking Sanctions and financial crime business models which could impact The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new Barclays Group over time.
form of corporate criminal liability focused broadly on a companys failure to prevent Data protection and PSD2 bribery on its behalf.
The legislation has broad Most countries in which Barclays Group has a application and in certain circumstances presence already have privacy laws governing may have extra-territorial impact on entities, the collection, use and disclosure of personal persons or activities located outside the UK, data, or are considering their introduction.
including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
The harmonisation of the European privacy In practice, the legislation requires Barclays regime through the introduction of the Group to have adequate procedures to General Data Protection Regulation GDPR prevent bribery which, due to the extrawas a major focus in 2018.
However, new territorial nature of the status, makes this laws have also recently been introduced in both complex and costly.
California, the Cayman Islands, and Brazil, and existing laws in Japan, Guernsey, Jersey On 30 September 2017, the Criminal Finances Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal and the Isle of Man have been updated.
The global nature of our business and IT offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of UK and overseas tax evasion.
The legislation infrastructure means personal information 222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Financial review A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and the contribution of each of our businesses to the overall performance of the Barclays Group.
Financial review Page Key performance indicators 224 Consolidated summary income statement 226 Income statement commentary 227 Consolidated summary balance sheet 228 Balance sheet commentary 229 Analysis of results by business 230 Margins and balances 240 Non-IFRS performance measures 241 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 223
