Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Overview environment in which we operate and Barclays UK is a personal and business banking key indicators within our business, while Building Thriving franchise, comprised largely of our Personal proactively planning for numerous potential Local Economies Banking, Barclaycard Consumer UK and outcomes, in order to minimise the risks Business Banking businesses.
associated with the UKs withdrawal from the In September, we launched our first European Union.
We remain conservative in Building Thriving Local Economies pilot in Our Personal Banking business includes our outlook, supported by our strong risk Bury, Greater Manchester.
Through this Community and Premier banking, as well as management framework and oversight.
we aim to bring together people, teachers, Savings, Investments & Wealth Management, business groups and political leaders The threats of organised crime and cyberattacks which offer financial solutions to help across our communities to identify customers move forward with confidence.
remain key risks to our operating model and growth opportunities and understand the we continue to invest to ensure the Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit barriers that prevent local communities card provider, offering flexible borrowing and operational resilience and reliability of our in the UK from moving forward.
We technological infrastructure, while simplifying payment solutions, while delivering a leading understand that every community has customer experience.
Business Banking serves our technological estate in order to remain different characteristics and agile and drive technological advancement a spectrum of clients, from high growth circumstances, so following our pilot in start-ups to small and medium-sized for the benefit of our customers.
Bury, we will create a further three pilots enterprises who need specialist advice, We remain focused on reducing the volume in different types of communities across products and services.
of operational incidents through continued the UK, including a rural community, a This year, we officially established Barclays investment in our technology and controls.
coastal community and a smaller town.
Bank UK PLC, which forms part of Barclays The volume of operational incidents caused by PLC Group, being the first bank in the UK to technology are becoming less frequent across become legally ring-fenced.
This was a huge Barclays year-on-year, with a 13% reduction in undertaking and brings with it a new phase the last 12 months.
Where incidents do occur, will continue to harness the opportunities that Open Banking provides in order to deliver new in Barclays history.
we are resolutely focused on minimising any impact on customers.
and exciting applications for our customers in Strategy the future.
There have been a number of significant Our strategy is centred on building long-term, meaningful relationships with our customers.
regulatory developments around retail banking By focusing our efforts on improving the business models and pricing in 2018 that have end-to-end journeys for our customers, This is achieved through colleagues, empowered by technology, passionate the potential to impact our business models we have again reduced the number of going forward, while potential new market complaints we receive.
Despite this, the level about the customer, delivering perfect and personalised experiences to help customers entrants, such as Fintechs and established of complaints we receive remains too high large technology companies, threaten to take and reducing them further will continue to move forward with confidence every day.
be a key priority for us in 2019.
The Barclays Purpose is Creating opportunities to rise.
In Barclays UK we express this as As the deadline for PPI enquiries approaches, This year has seen further progress in ensuring we continue to properly support older, disabled #letsgoforward helping people move we continue to monitor responses and forward and do the things they want to do, resource appropriately for an increase in the or potentially vulnerable customers.
A number of new services were launched including: the with confidence, every day.
lead up to the cliams deadline date, in order to ensure the right outcomes for our customers.
ability for deaf customers to contact us by Market and operating environment telephone with the assistance of a third-party Key highlights of the year The current political and economic environment interpreter: an online support page for people poses a number of challenges through the Throughout 2018, we have continued to experiencing mental health concerns: and a demonstrate our position as leaders in impact on our customers of continuing wide-range of considerations for older uncertainty, modest economic growth and innovation, providing customers with customers including fraud and scams solutions to better serve their financial needs.
volatile exchange rates, while ongoing low awareness and accessible banking services.
interest rates constrain overall profitability.
Through automation and digitisation, over half of the products we delivered in 2018 We are investing in personalised ways to Against this backdrop, competition, customer support customers who are showing that they behaviour and regulatory expectations continue were taken out digitally and 90% of our service transactions are now completed may be experiencing early stages of financial to evolve rapidly, requiring a high degree of stress.
Enabled by a new sophisticated data business change.
Barclays UK, however, in a self-service fashion by our customers.
engine, we have developed a suite of tailored continues to deliver solid financial We have continued to develop the capabilities contacts to direct customers towards tools performance, with a Return on Tangible Equity of our mobile banking app, Barclays Mobile and information that could help them improve of 16.7% excluding litigation and conduct, Banking BMB to allow our customers to their financial health.
underpinned by strong capital and liquidity manage their finances more easily and positions with a conservative LDR of 96%.
effectively, with BMB becoming the most used We have already helped over 6.7 million young This has been achieved through the delivery people develop the core, transferable skills banking app in the UK eBenchmarkers.
We of customer-centric solutions and franchisenow have around 10.8 million digitally active, they need for the world of work through our led deposit growth, matched by low risk, LifeSkills programme and we have committed around five million of whom are digital only.
high-quality secured asset growth while to upskill another 10 million people over the maintaining a stable net interest margin.
We are proud to be the first major UK high next five years to support all generations, street bank to allow customers to aggregate Risks to the operating model across the whole of the UK.
their other current accounts into our mobile The uncertainty around Brexit has been a banking app through Open Banking API challenge throughout 2018 and remains so, Ashok Vaswani technology, meaning that customers do not impacting both customer confidence and the have to share their online banking log-in CEO, Barclays UK market environment.
We closely monitor the credentials with us in order to do this.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 31
