Barclays International Strengthening our diversified portfolio in the last seven years, and as Western that are recruiting but struggling Europes Best Bank for Financing.
In addition, to find suitable candidates.
Corporate and Global Capital ranked Barclays as the Best Through significant investments in our Investment Bank Corporate Broker in the UK for the third year technology, we are increasing the resiliency running, and IFR magazine named Barclays The Corporate and Investment Bank and performance of our digital client its North America Asset-Backed Securitisation comprises principally the Banking, experience.
These investments will continue House of the Year.
Corporate Banking and Markets businesses to be a focus for the year ahead, alongside which aid money managers, institutions, In the year ahead, we see opportunities to enhancing our competitive position in governments and corporate clients in the UK, and growing our transaction banking improve further the performance of Banking managing their funding, financing, and by investing in talent in key products and revenues globally, expanding our European risk management needs.
sectors, and continuing to build on our cash management platform, and continuing historical strength in debt underwriting.
to enhance the commercial effectiveness of our lending book.
Corporate Banking Performance overview Banking Our Corporate Banking business provides Markets GBP and EUR working capital and transaction Our Markets business provides a broad range Banking provides clients with long-term strategic advice on mergers and acquisitions banking services, including trade and of clients with market insight, execution payments, for multinational corporates and services, and tailored risk management and M&A, corporate finance and financial risk management solutions, as well as equity institutions, and UK large and medium size financing solutions across equities, credit, corporate clients.
rates and foreign exchange FX products.
and debt capital raising services.
Our new Corporate Banking leadership is We made good progress in 2018 on our In 2018, across the industry, fees were down focused on enhancing our offering.
During strategy to rebuild our franchise and approximately 4% globally, with some the year, we developed a new multi-country transform performance over the long term.
products and regions down double digits.
digital banking platform, primarily supporting Supported by our investments in financial Barclays global investment banking fee share Corporate and Investment Bank clients, which resources, technology, and human capital, was 4.2%, consistent with our performance a was most recently rolled out in Ireland and our business this year increased market share in 2017.
In Q3 2018, Corporate Banking and across each asset class and delivered five In Europe and the Middle East, we ranked the UK Government launched a 1bn housing consecutive quarters of outperformance vs. fifth for all Banking products, our highest development fund to boost the delivery of our peers.
In a year of challenging market ever full-year ranking.
In the Americas, we new housing in England, and also launched a conditions, our Credit and Macro Rates and ranked sixth, and remain the highest-ranked 300m ENABLE Guarantee cashback scheme FX businesses which we report as FICC European investment bank.
Our Asia Pacific with the British Business Bank to boost asset Fixed Income, Credit and Commodities franchise continues to perform well.
produced steady performances, driven by revenue diversification in Credit and market Our performance was bolstered by a standout Corporate Banking has also driven stronger year in M&A, where we attained our highest share gains in Macro.
Revenue growth in client relationships through innovative our Equities franchise outperformed our global fee share in four years and ranked in programmes like Connect with Work, which the top five in Americas M&A for the third competitors, driven by strong performances builds bridges between people who face in derivatives and equity financing.
In Debt Underwriting we barriers to getting into work and businesses ranked in the top four in global fee share made significant progress in building out our for the third consecutive year, driven by Note a continued strong presence in both the a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and leveraged finance and investment grade Barclays internal business structure.
Our Equity Underwriting business performed well in a very challenging market environment, winning our highest ever ranking in Enhancing the precision of European rights offerings, and continued to demonstrate momentum in initial public our capital allocation offerings IPOs, where we book-ran five of With the goal of ensuring that our resources the years 10 largest IPOs from the Americas, are being deployed in a manner that will Europe and the Middle East.
drive improved shareholder returns, we are During 2018, our new Social Impact Banking embedding a rigorous approach to group structured the first  quantitative and analytic capabilities and loans in the US.
More than 100 of our Banking balancing risk and return within our colleagues mentored entrepreneurs as part of businesses across Barclays International.
the third annual Unreasonable Impact We are focused on driving efficiency in programme, the worlds first international funding and optimising the allocation of network of accelerators focused on scaling-up our capital.
In addition, we identify new entrepreneurial businesses that will help businesses to grow top line revenue.
employ thousands worldwide while solving Early success on this front includes the some of societys most pressing challenges.
Asset Finance business, which executed two major mortgage acquisition and Barclays was the recipient of multiple industry securitisation transactions this year, awards in 2018, including being named by both valued over 4bn.
Euromoney as the UKs Best Investment Bank for the third consecutive year and sixth time 36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information electronic platform capabilities across all partnerships, built relationships with new asset classes, enabling best-in-class execution clients, won a number of industry awards, Consumer, Cards for clients.
and retained our position as the market & Payments leader in the UK retail market.
We continued to help clients navigate market Consumer, Cards and Payments includes Barclaycard Commercial Payments provides events and volatility, and maintained or Cards & Payments and Private Bank & improved our position in a number of markets.
commercial cards and virtual payment Overseas Services.
Cards & Payments products in the UK.
In 2018, we launched For example, Barclays was one of three banks provides branded and co-branded chosen to execute the first-ever bond issue the UKs first co-branded trade credit card consumer credit cards, lending and partnership with Travis Perkins Group, and and the first-ever asset-backed commercial deposit accounts to our customers in the paper transaction based on the new strengthened our presence in the travel US and Germany, and payment solutions industry by signing new partnerships with Secured Overnight Financing Rate SOFR.
to our customers and clients in the UK.
Additionally, we are a top three ranked broker Amadeus, Paxport and Voxel.
Private Bank & Overseas Services by traded notional on the Tokyo Stock Barclaycard Germany is now over a quarter of provides banking, credit and investment Exchange TSE, with over 100 trillion yen a century old and serves over 1.3 million credit services to retail, high net worth and traded for our clients in 2018, equating to card, deposit and loan customers.
We are the ultra-high net worth clients, family more than 10% market share.
leading issuer of revolving credit cards in the offices, businesses, corporates and The clients who generate the highest returns country by outstanding balances.
for market-making businesses consistently have a growing instalment loans business as allocate the greatest and most profitable share well as an online deposit product.
In 2018 we Performance overview of their activity to full service markets launched a new Barclaycard Visa credit card, Cards & Payments franchises.
To better meet the needs of these and expanded our unique Equal Payment Plan Our Cards & Payments business operates clients typically the worlds largest money EPP offering by enabling credit card across five business units: US Consumer Bank, managers and therefore to improve returns, customers to repay their credit card balance Barclaycard Payment Solutions, Barclays in 2019 we plan to pursue targeted growth in fixed instalments.
Barclaycard Germany Partner Finance, Barclaycard Commercial and diversification opportunities.
Our dialogue continues to drive exceptional customer Payments and Barclaycard Germany.
with clients regarding these initiatives gives us satisfaction rankings RNPS, with the confidence that these investments will drive business ranking in the top two for both US Consumer Bank offers co-branded and cards and loans.
branded credit cards in the US, along with consumer loans and online retail deposits.
Research Barclays is also a leading provider of credit Across all credit card products, US Consumer cards and lending in Norway, Sweden and Our Research teams mission is to affect Bank added over two million new accounts clients decision-making through independent, Denmark via our EnterCard joint venture in 2018 while growing our consumer retail with Swedbank.
thought-leading, differentiated insights on deposits to over US$14bn.
We are among the equity and debt, as well as on the macro Private Bank and Overseas Services top-ten credit card issuers in the market by trends shaping the global economy.
In the Private Bank we focus on bespoke total outstandings as at the end of 2018.
Our solutions, ranging from standard to To enhance our relevance to clients, strong position in the travel and entertainment particularly after the implementation of sophisticated, for our high net worth, industry continued with the launch of a new ultra-high net worth and family office clients.
MiFID II, we continue to invest in our analysts Frontier Airlines co-brand credit card.
Our and the digital capabilities supporting their Overseas services offers banking, investment Uber Visa card and our JetBlue Plus Card and credit products and services to local work, as well as in best-in-class platforms to appeared in U. S. News & World Reports list disseminate their insights.
The Research Data residents and businesses based in Jersey, of Best Travel Rewards Credit Cards.
We also Guernsey and the Isle of Man, and serves Science Platform we are building will become maintained our number three position in the an increasingly important differentiator for us, non-UK based corporates and fiduciaries 2018 J. D. Power US Credit Card Satisfaction who have UK banking, credit and investment with state-of-the-art data infrastructure Study.
Driving continued strong growth in our operated by leading data scientists and requirements.
International Banking delivers US Consumer Bank across online consumer banking, savings, mortgages and investment leveraging alternative data sets in innovative banking and our partner cards franchise ways.
Partnerships with research aggregators products to affluent international customers.
is a strategic priority for us in 2019. and new multimedia capabilities are helping Private Bank and Overseas Services delivered Barclaycard Payment Solutions provides clients interact with us in the channels of their a strong performance during 2018.
We merchant acquiring, payments integration and choice, and report enhanced categorisation continued to enhance our client offering with acceptance, and payment gateway products is bringing our best content to a broader new products and services, which drove an in the UK.
In 2018, we processed over 250bn audience.
underlying increase in client balances.
The in payments, making us one of the largest The insights generated by our analysts business delivered strong revenue growth payment acceptance providers in Europe.
year on year, and a good return on equity.
drive connectivity with clients across the During the year, we successfully migrated Investment Bank, with particularly strong over 100,000 clients from across our small We strive to build long-term value creation client engagement on cross-asset, crossbusiness and corporate client base onto our with our clients.
Central to our strategy regional perspectives, and our teams industry new BankWORKS platform: clients now enjoy is continually enhancing our investment, rankings demonstrate their relevance in better and more resilient service, including banking and credit propositions.
We have helping clients understand the markets in new and improved statements and simplified been developing differentiated capabilities in a challenging year.
discretionary portfolio management, foreign exchange and real estate, and in bringing Barclays Partner Finance provides point of investment opportunities from our world-class sale finance products to consumers in the Investment Bank.
UK through a network of retailers and car dealerships.
In 2018, we grew our existing home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 37 s e c i v r e s d n a s t c u d o r P V a l u e c Barclays Execution Services World-class service provider BX operating model Customers and clients BUK and BI businesses and their customers and clients Products and services Technology Operations Other functional services Value creation To our customers and clients delivering high quality services and an outstanding experience To society Paul Compton safety and continuity of services CEO, Barclays Execution Services to the financial system To shareholders generating efficiencies by transforming the way we do business 2018 is the second year of operations for BX Overview and we have gone from strength to strength.
BX is the Group-wide service company providing Through our centres of excellence we are technology, operations and functional services to businesses across the Group.
delivering capacity to support investment The initial catalyst for the creation of BX was in our businesses and drive exceptional the UK ring-fencing regulation and the need customer service.
However, from day one, we have thought about BX strategically as an organisation that can drive productivity and capacity across Barclays.
BX has a central role in Barclays operating model supporting the performance of both the BI and the BUK businesses.
BX operates through centres of excellence which group complimentary processes and services together in order to offer consistency and efficiency of delivery.
It is an organisation of scale and sophistication with nearly two-thirds of colleagues within the BX organisation.
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport r e a t i o s n t n e i l c d n a s r e m o t s u C Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Strategy The BX strategy is to be a world class provider of simple, efficient, innovative and secure services, which deliver customer and shareholder value.
We will achieve this by leveraging our centres of excellence to drive operational excellence and outstanding customer experience to create competitive advantage.
We remain focused on eliminating inefficiencies within the Group, creating capacity to enable investment both in our core infrastructure and in growth opportunities.
Bringing teams together creates opportunities to identify and share best practices and foster innovation.
This delivers enhanced controls and security resulting in a more resilient organisation.
Market and operating environment In an era of high paced development, maintaining state of the art technology Engaging with financial technology companies for our customers and colleagues is critical.
Technology is a core enabler of our strategy to drive innovation and BX partners with BI and BUK to ensure Innovation plays a key role in solving Barclays Rise is home to the Barclays Accelerator, that we continue to offer a market leading challenges, identifying new revenue and powered by Techstars.
Now in its fifth year, digital offering: for example, supporting the investment streams and building nextthis 13-week programme is designed to development of BUKs mobile banking generation products, services and platforms.
tackle some of Barclays biggest challenges, application and developing enhanced One way of bringing innovation into the as well as shape and scale the next electronic trading capabilities for BIs organisation is by harnessing the power generation of FinTech businesses.
weve had over 140 companies graduate from the programme.
Their combined Risks to the operating model Known as the #homeoffintech, Rise, created valuation is estimated at 550m.
Robust management of operational risks have by Barclays, is a global community of the never been more important in financial services worlds top innovators working together with This year, we launched Rise Growth and Barclays is no exception.
BX is at the our colleagues, partners and clients, to create Investments, making up to 10 million of forefront of actively managing the Groups the future of financial services.
Rise operates investment capital available to each class of operational risks.
Key focus areas for BX include state-of-the-art workspaces in key cities ten companies coming through the Barclays enhancing and maintaining the cyber defences across the world, including London, New Accelerator.
These funds would provide and technology resilience that is critical.
The financial support at a key growth stage for York, Tel Aviv and Mumbai.
Today, we have threat of cybercrime remains a key risk and we over 250 Technology companies who are FinTech companies working with us on continue to invest in keeping our customers and strategic opportunities, reflecting Barclays based at Rise, along with a virtual community businesses safe.
We have made major of over 6,000 members.
commitment to mutual growth and success.
investments in our cyber defences, including in our global network of Security Joint Operation Centres.
These are state of the art integrated In 2018, we successfully halved the In 2019, investment in iPortal will increase to facilities, providing 24 7 monitoring and onboarding cycle time for our clients across allow the addition of: digital onboarding and response capability enabling a Group-wide Corporate, Markets and Banking and 95% of servicing: improved user experience: extended collaborative response to threats and incidents Corporate new-to-bank clients say they have transaction banking capabilities: and API potentially impacting our colleagues, customers had a positive experience with their accessibility to deliver a market leading and clients.
We have developed strategic campus sites in Technology resilience is at the heart of our Our investments in resilience and in our cyber Whippany, Glasgow and Pune which approach to operational resilience.
The demands defences are enhancing the resilience of our provide state of the art work spaces of stakeholders including customers, markets operations.
In addition, we have made major for our colleagues.
and regulators, have never been greater in strides in moving our hosting solutions to the respect of this risk.
We continue to invest to Cloud and this will remain an area of focus Our focus on our customers and clients ensure the operational resilience and reliability in 2019. remains relentless.
We have continued to develop our digital Key highlights of the year capability and in 2018 we added over 15,000 Paul Compton Throughout 2018, we have delivered clients onto our Corporate Banking iPortal CEO, Barclays Execution Services outstanding customer service and kept platform, covering more than 80% of the Barclays safe and secure.
In addition, we added more cash management services to the platform and launched the first mobile version.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 39 Governance compliance Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Code A snapshot of how Barclays complies with the requirements of The Code is set out below.
For further information, see pages 83 to 88.
The composition of the principal Board Leadership All Directors are expected to The Barclays PLC Board of Directors the Board Committees meets the independence allocate sufficient time to their criteria of The Code, and there is is responsible for the overall leadership of the Barclays Group, including establishing its appropriate cross-membership to role on the Board in order to further promote effectiveness.
Purpose, Values and Strategy and satisfying discharge their responsibilities itself as to the alignment of Barclays culture to All appointments to the Board are based on its Purpose, Values and Strategy.
In 2018, the merit and objective criteria, in the context of Board approved a new common Purpose for Barclays strategic direction and the diversity attendance of Directors at the Barclays Group Creating opportunities to of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, rise which reflects Barclays entrepreneurial scheduled Board meetings cognitive and personal strengths, as well as spirit, relentless quest for better customer and skills, knowledge and experience required was 100%.
client centricity, and our commitments to for the Board to be effective.
Appointments society at large and to our colleagues.
are made following a formal, rigorous and Directors are now obliged to obtain preThe Board is also responsible for ensuring transparent process.
clearance prior to taking on any additional that management maintains a sound system commitments, including but not limited to Diversity, particularly at Board and senior of audit, risk management, compliance and directorships, and to indicate in the clearance leadership levels across the Barclays Group, internal control.
request the likely time commitment involved.
remains a key area of focus.
The Barclays For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as Group recognises and embraces the benefits There is clear division of responsibilities at the date of this report, the Board is satisfied between the Chairman, who runs the Board, of a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board that none of the Directors is over-committed.
and the Group Chief Executive, who manages level as an essential element in maintaining the Barclays Group on a day-to-day basis.
The Nominations Directors are subject to election or re-election Individual roles on the Board and their Committee regularly reviews the composition each year by shareholders at the AGM.
responsibilities are set out in Barclays Charter of the Board and the Board Committees.
It The effectiveness of the Board, the Board of Expectations.
Pursuant to the Charter of frequently considers a skills matrix for the Committees and the individual Directors has Expectations, non-executive Directors provide Board, which identifies the core competencies, been assessed in a process facilitated by an effective oversight, strategic guidance and skills, diversity and experience required for the independent third party.
Further information constructive challenge, help to develop Board to deliver its strategic aims and govern regarding the process for the review of the proposals on strategy and empower the the Barclays Group effectively.
To the extent Board, the Board Committees and the executive Directors to implement the strategy, that the Nominations Committee identifies individual Directors effectiveness can be while holding the executive Directors to any gaps in the Boards profile which may found in the Nominations Committee report account.
The Senior Independent Director be a result of the forthcoming retirement on page 68. provides a sounding board for the Chairman of a Director, or in response to changing and acts as an intermediary for the other market needs that information is used Accountability Directors when necessary.
to inform the search for a new Director or The Board is responsible for setting Barclays Directors.
For example, as at the date of this risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is Effectiveness report, there are four female Directors 27% prepared to take in the context of achieving A majority of the Board 12 of the 15 against a target of having 33% female Barclays strategic objectives.
Directors are independent non-executive representation on the Board by 2020, to which Directors and, as required by The Code, the Barclays Enterprise Risk Management we remain committed.
Chairman was independent on appointment.
Framework ERMF is designed to identify and Potential new Directors are asked to disclose set minimum requirements in respect of the In accordance with the recommendations of their significant commitments, and to give main risks to strategy execution.
The key The Code, the independence of Tim Breedon, an indication of the time spent on those elements of the Barclays Groups system of Reuben Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo all of commitments, on the basis that all Directors risk management and internal control are set whom have served on the Board for more than are expected to allocate sufficient time to out in the risk frameworks relating to each of six years was subjected to a more rigorous their role on the Board in order to discharge our eight Principal Risks Credit risk, Market review.
The Board remains satisfied that the their responsibilities effectively.
In 2018, the risk, Treasury and Capital risk, Operational lengths of their tenure have no impact on attendance of Directors at scheduled Board risk, Model risk, Reputation risk, Conduct risk their respective levels of independence or the meetings was 100% and the attendance and Legal risk and the Barclays Control effectiveness of their contributions.
Having of Directors at additional Board meetings Framework, which details requirements for served on the Board for nine years, both which were often called on short notice the delivery of control responsibilities.
Reuben and Dambisa will be retiring from was strong, at 95%.
Frameworks, policies and standards applicable the Board at this years AGM and will not, to the Barclays Group under the ERMF also set therefore, be standing for re-election.
out the approaches to meet applicable legal and regulatory requirements relating to internal control and assurance.
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Str Strategic r ategic report eport Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Regular reports are made to the Board Relations with shareholders covering significant risks to the Barclays The Board is committed to promoting Group.
Key controls are assessed on a effective channels of communication with our regular basis for both design and operating shareholders and upholding good corporate effectiveness.
The Risk Committee and the governance as a means of building stronger Reputation Committee examine reports and more engaged relationships with them.
covering the Principal Risks as well as reports The Directors, in conjunction with the senior on risk measurement methodologies and risk executive team and Investor Relations, appetite.
The Audit Committee oversees the participate in varied forms of engagement control environment and remediation of with institutional investors, including investor related issues, and assesses the adequacy of meetings, seminars and conferences across credit impairment.
The Board reports on the many geographic locations, reflecting the risks faced by the Barclays Group in the annual diverse nature of our equity and debt viability statement on pages 42 and 43. institutional ownership.
The Chairman and The Audit Committee, comprising Senior Independent Director, together with independent non-executive Directors, other Board representatives and the Company oversees the effectiveness of Barclays Secretary, hold investor meetings focused on internal and external auditors.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Remuneration also hold quarterly results briefings and The Remuneration Committee, which comprises maintain a dialogue with investors.
independent non-executive Directors, sets the overarching principles and parameters of We continue to communicate with our private remuneration policy across the Barclays Group shareholders through shareholder mailings.
and approves the remuneration arrangements Shareholders can also choose to sign up to of the Chairman, the executive Directors, Shareview so that they receive information other senior executives and certain Barclays about Barclays PLC and their shareholding Group employees.
The Board and the senior executive The Barclays Groups remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving team consider the AGM as a key date for engagement with shareholders.
A number sustained high performance and creating long-term value.
of Directors, including the Chairman, are available for informal discussion either The remuneration structure for employees before or after the meeting.
is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, the primary exceptions being The Senior Independent Director is available that the executive Directors participate in to shareholders if they have concerns that the Barclays Long Term Incentive Plan and have not been addressed through the receive part of their pay in Barclays PLC shares.
To ensure alignment with shareholder A revised version of The Code was published in 2018, and came into effect for financial interests, a significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive years beginning on or after 1 January 2019 The New Code.
We will report against the Directors is variable and is therefore performance related.
It is also subject to requirements of The New Code and The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.
Regulations 2018, which were also published last year and came into effect for our financial Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to year beginning on 1 January 2019, in our next malus.
Clawback also applies to any variable Annual Report.
remuneration awarded to Material Risk Takers after 1 January 2015.
Acknowledging the heightened focus in The New Code on the need for boards to understand the views of their key stakeholders, and to report annually on The composition of the how their interests have been considered in principal Board Committees board discussions and decision-making, the Board is reviewing its existing engagement meets the independence mechanisms with colleagues, shareholders criteria of The Code, and there and other key stakeholders.
For more details of how we engage with our workforce, in is appropriate cross-membership particular, please refer to the Governance to further promote effectiveness.
reporting for 2019 section on page 88. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 41 Governance compliance Viability statement The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Section C. 2.2 The financial statements and accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Section C. 2.2 requires the Directors to make a statement in the Annual Report regarding the viability of the Group, including explaining how they assessed the prospects of the Group, the period of time for which they have made the assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.
Time horizon reviewed the Groups liquidity and funding The consequences from the UKs In light of the analysis summarised below, profile, including forecasts of Barclays anticipated exit from the EU market and the Board has assessed the Groups current internal liquidity risk appetite LRA and Customs Union are unpredictable and viability, and confirms that the Directors have regulatory liquidity coverage ratios diverse and may impact over a prolonged a reasonable expectation that the Group will period.
In particular, a significant considered the Groups viability under be able to continue in operation and meet its deterioration in the macro-economic specific internal and regulatory stress liabilities as they fall due over the next three environment in the UK and Europe could scenarios years.
This time frame is used in managements lead to increased credit rating downgrades considered the stability of the major Working Capital and Viability Report WCR, of the UK sovereign and the Barclays Group, markets in which it operates, the risks prepared at February 2019.
The availability significantly increasing borrowing costs, posed by the simplification of the business of the WCR gives management and the Board widening credit spreads and materially model and regulatory changes sufficient visibility and confidence on the adversely affect the Groups interest considered scenarios which might affect future operating environment for this time margins and liquidity position.
the operational resiliency of the Group period.
The three-year time frame has also legal proceedings, competition, regulatory been chosen because: reviewed the draft statutory accounts and and conduct matters giving rise to the the in-depth disclosure of the financial it is within the period covered by the potential risk of fines, loss of regulatory performance of the Group Groups future projections of profitability, licences and permissions and other cash flows, capital requirements and capital sanctions, as well as potential adverse considered the Groups medium-term plan resources MTP : and impacts on our reputation with clients and customers and on investor confidence it is also within the period over which reviewed the legal, competition and and or potentially resulting in impacts regulatory and internal stress testing is regulatory matters set out in Note 27 to the on capital, liquidity and funding carried out: and financial statements on pages 315 to 322. sudden shocks or geopolitical unrest in any it is representative of the continued level Assessment of the major economies in which the bank of regulatory change in the financial Risks faced by the Groups business, operates which could impact credit ratings, services industry.
including in respect of financial, conduct and alter the behaviour of depositors and other operational risk, are controlled and managed The Directors are satisfied that this period is counterparties and affect the ability of the within the Group in line with the Enterprise sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment firm to maintain appropriate capital and Risk Management Framework.
Executive of viability to be made.
liquidity ratios: and management set a Risk Appetite for the Considerations evolving operational risks notably Group, which is then approved by the Board.
In making their assessment the Board has: cybersecurity, technology and resilience Risk and Compliance set limits, within which and the ability to respond to the new and carried out a robust and detailed businesses are required to operate.
emergent technologies in a controlled assessments of the Groups risk profile Management and the Board then oversee the fashion.
and material existing and emerging risks.
Internal Audit provide Notable among these are risks which senior independent assurance to the Board and As a diversified, transatlantic bank with global management believe could cause the Executive Committee over the effectiveness reach, Barclays is impacted in the longer term Groups future results of operations or of governance, risk management and control by a wide range of macroeconomic, political, financial condition to differ materially from over current and evolving risks.
regulatory and accounting, technological and current expectations or could adversely social developments.
The evolving operating A full set of material risks to which the impact the Groups ability to maintain environment presents opportunities and risks organisation is exposed can be found in the minimum levels of regulatory capital, which we continue to evaluate and take steps Material existing and emerging risks on pages liquidity, funding and the minimum to appropriately adapt our strategy and its 131 to 136.
Certain risks are additionally requirement for own funds and eligible delivery.
Notably, the consequences of the identified as key themes and monitored liabilities MREL over the period of the withdrawal of the UK from the European closely by the Board and Board Committees.
assessment Union and the associated economic and Certain particular risks to viability identified by reviewed how those risks are identified, operational risks have received significant the Board are detailed below.
These have been managed and controlled further detail management attention, particularly, given chosen on the basis of their ability to impact provided on pages 137 to 148 the greater uncertainty this is likely to cause viability over the timeframe of the assessment in 2019. considered the WCR which provides an but in some instances the risks exist beyond assessment of forecast CET1, leverage this timeframe.
These particular risks include: ratio, Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as well as the build-up of MREL up to 2022 42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Stress tests The Group-wide stress testing framework The Board has also considered the Groups also includes reverse stress testing techniques viability under specific internal and regulatory which aim to identify and analyse the stress scenarios.
circumstances under which the Groups business model would no longer be viable.
The Board reviewed external regulatory stress Examples include extreme macroeconomic test results which are designed to assess downturn scenarios, or specific idiosyncratic the resilience of banks to adverse economic events, covering operational risk for example, developments and confirm that we have cyberattack, adverse outcomes in legal robust forward-looking planning processes for proceedings, competition, regulatory and the risks associated with our business profile.
conduct matters and capital liquidity events.
In addition, the latest macroeconomic internal We use an inventory of models, quantitative stress test, conducted in Q4 2018, considered procedures and judgement to support the the potential impacts of: stress test calculations and projections.
These a severe UK recession triggered by the tools range from experienced management UK leaving the EU with no transitional judgement through to sophisticated financial arrangements including falling property and behavioural models.
The stress test prices which fail to recover over the forecast evaluation process produces both gross horizon and rising unemployment impacts and the effect of mitigation including significant weakness in the US economy management actions.
This enables us to post 2019 as the stimulative effects of understand, monitor and control the risks tax reform fade identified.
The stress testing process is overseen by a governance structure from the a sudden shortage of credit in China Board through executive business and risk causing a global recession committees.
Management believes that the weakness in peripheral Europe driven by an internal and external stress testing process aggressive fiscal easing pledged by the considers a wide range of severe but plausible Italian Coalition Government.
However, stress tests should not be is exacerbated by the global economic assumed to be an exhaustive assessment slowdown in the US and China combined of all possible hypothetical extreme or with trade tensions: and remote scenarios.
a major technological outage in the firm.
These internal and external stress tests All of which could result in, among other informed the conclusions of the WCR.
Based things, a loss of income or increased on current forecasts, incorporating key known impairment.
The stress test outcome for regulatory changes to be enacted and having macroeconomic tests shows our full financial considered possible stress scenarios, the performance over the horizon of the scenario current liquidity and capital position of the and focuses on the CET1 capital ratio.
Group continues to support the Boards assessment of the Groups viability.
Legal proceedings, competition, regulatory and remediation redress conduct matters For a statement as to our dividend policy ar so assessed as part of the stress testing please see page 89. process.
Capital risk appetite and LRA are set at a level designed to enable the Group The Boards assessment of the Groups to withstand various stress scenarios.
As viability over the next three years is subject to material existing and emerging risks part of this process, management also highlighted on pages 131 to 136. identified actions, including cost reductions and withdrawal from lines of business, available to restore the Group to its desired capital flightpath.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 43 Governance compliance Non-financial information statement Measurement and reporting of non-financial matters is key to Barclays and we firmly believe that what is being measured is being managed, hence, our continuous effort at improving and refining our non-financial reporting.
We use a variety of tools to track and Areas of the Non-financial information statement are reflected by way of reference to the measure our strategic delivery and collect following locations: both quantitative and qualitative information to get the full picture of our performance.
We Non-financial information Section Page are also committed to maintaining a robust Business model Business model 14 internal and external assurance process for our key metrics, ensuring that we have strong Policies Non-financial information statement 45 controls and clear data management in place.
Principal risks Risk review 127 The Non-Financial Reporting requirements Risk management 137 contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Risk performance 149 Companies Act 2006 are addressed within this Key performance indicators Key performance indicators 18 section by means of reference in order to indicate which part of the strategic narrative within this document, or available online the respective requirements are embedded.
We have used references to avoid disrupting or duplicating the narrative flow, in the spirit of We have a range of policies and guidance clear, concise and transparent reporting.
barclays citizenship Non-financial information and the delivery of  and shown non-financial benefits for our stakeholders is opposite that support our key outcomes for integrated into the strategy of Barclays.
Our our customers and clients, colleagues and business model on page 14 encompasses the citizenship activity.
Performance against our non-financial value created for our stakeholders strategic non-financial performance measures, from our resources and relationships of the as shown on pages 19 to 27, is one indicator of Group.
This value creation is measured through the effectiveness and outcome of policies and our performance measures.
The due diligence carried out for each policy is contained within each respective policy The principal risks related to the non-financial documentation.
Policies are reviewed annually matters are shown alongside the financial by the appropriate Board Committee, including principal risks on page 28, along with an assessment of the effectiveness of the Policy a description of their management, with any recommendations for revisions made Our non-financial performance measures to the Board for approval.
shown on pages 19 to 27 ensure we maintain Extensive non-financial reporting can also be accountability and deliver for a wider range of found in our 2018 ESG Report at home.
Delivery for our colleagues is barclays citizenship discussed in detail within the Colleague section within our KPI framework, and the culture that Each policy is available for downloading fosters this environment is discussed in further from home.
barclays citizenship detail on page 11, and within the People section  on pages 93 to 98.
In respect of environmental matters, we assess our performance through our Citizenship lens, in addition to providing granular level information in our 2018 ESG Report.
The report also discusses our position in society, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters in more detail.
44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Across Barclays, policies and statements of intent are in place to ensure consistent governance on a range of issues.
For the purposes of the Non-Financial Reporting requirements, these include, but are not limited to: Non-financial interests Environmental matters Policy statement Description Energy and Climate Change statement Our new Energy and Climate Change statement sets out our approach to energy sectors with higher carbon-related exposures from extraction or consumption, and or those with an impact in certain sensitive environments, namely thermal coal, Arctic oil and gas, and oil sands.
The statement outlines the important role Barclays plays in ensuring that the worlds energy needs are met, while helping to limit the threat that climate change poses to people and to the natural environment.
World Heritage Site We understand that certain industries, and in particular mining, oil and gas and power, can and Ramsar Wetlands statement have negative impacts on areas of high biodiversity value including UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands.
We recognise that financing projects located in these areas can impact on the outstanding universal value that they provide.
Our World Heritage Site and Ramsar Wetlands statement outlines our due diligence approach to preserving and safeguarding these sites.
Environmental risk We have a strong commitment to managing the environmental risks associated with commercial lending and recognise that a banks major environmental impacts tend to be indirect, arising from the provision of financial services to business customers.
We believe that taking due account of our environmental impacts is not only the right thing to do, but also makes good business sense.
Employees Policy statement Description Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy the Policy sets out the approach to diversity on the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC.
Code of Conduct The Barclays Code of Conduct outlines the Values and Behaviours which govern our way of working across our business globally.
It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues working relationships, specifically but not exclusively with other Barclays employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, competitors and the broader community.
Health, safety and welfare Our commitment is to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our employees and to provide and maintain safe working conditions.
Effective management of health and safety will have a positive effect on the services we provide.
Good working environments will help our employees to perform better in serving our customers, which in turn will create value for all our stakeholders customers, employees, shareholders and the communities that we serve.
Equality and Diversity Charter Barclays Equality and Diversity Charter governs the approach for employees of the Group.
A diverse employee-base will include and make good use of differences in the skills, regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and other distinctions between employees, with all appointments made on merit.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 45
