Governance compliance Non-financial information statement Social matters Policy statement Description Donations Barclays works in partnership with non-profit organisations, including charities and NGOs, to develop high-performing programmes and volunteering opportunities that harness the skills and passion of Barclays employees.
Barclays Citizenship has chosen to partner with a small number of organisations, allowing us to have deeper relationships and ultimately enabling us to have the greatest impact on the communities in which we operate.
For this reason, we are unable to provide funding to many of the individual requests we receive.
Barclays does not accept unsolicited donation requests.
Tax Our Tax Principles are central to our approach to tax planning, for ourselves or on behalf of our clients.
Since their introduction in 2013 we believe our Tax Principles have been a strong addition to the way we manage tax, ensuring that we take into account all of our stakeholders when making decisions related to our tax affairs.
The same applies to our Tax Code of Conduct.
Sanctions Sanctions are restrictions on activity with targeted countries, governments, entities, individuals and industries that are imposed by bodies such as the United Nations UN, the European Union EU, individual countries or groups of countries.
The Barclays Group Sanctions Policy is designed to ensure that the Group complies with applicable sanctions laws in every jurisdiction in which it operates.
The defence industry Barclays has a strong and long-standing commitment to managing the social and ethical risks associated with lending and other types of financial services.
We provide financial services to the defence sector within a specific policy framework.
Each proposal is assessed on a case-by-case basis and legal compliance alone does not automatically guarantee our support.
The Barclays Statement on the Defence Sector outlines our approach and appetite to Defence-related transactions and relationships.
Human rights Policy statement Description Human rights We operate in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and take account of other internationally accepted human rights standards.
We also promote human rights through our employment policies and practices, through our supply chain and through the responsible use of our products and services.
Modern slavery Barclays recognises its responsibility to comply with all relevant legislation including the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In accordance with the requirements of the Act, we release an annual Barclays Group Statement on Modern Slavery.
This includes work on combating modern slavery in our operations, supply chain, and with clients and customers.
Supply chain Our supply chain helps us deliver for all our customers, clients and colleagues.
Our supply base is diverse, including start-ups, small and medium-sized businesses, and businesses owned, controlled and operated by under-represented segments of society as well as multinational corporations.
We recognise that these partnerships have significant direct and indirect environmental and social impacts.
We actively encourage our supplier partners to meet Barclays requirements in order to meet our obligations to our stakeholders.
Data protection Across Barclays, the privacy and security of personal information is respected and protected.
Our Privacy Statement governs how we collect, handle, store, share, use and dispose of information about people.
We regard sound privacy practices as a key element of corporate governance and accountability.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Policy statement Description Bribery and corruption We recognise that corruption can undermine the rule of law, democratic processes and basic human freedoms, impoverishing states and distorting free trade and competition.
Our statement reflects the statutory requirements applicable in the UK as derived from the United Nations and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development conventions on corruption.
Anti-money laundering and Barclays Anti-Money Laundering Policy is designed to ensure that we comply with the counter-terrorist financing requirements and obligations set out in UK legislation, regulations, rules and industry guidance for the financial services sector, including the need to have adequate systems and controls in place to mitigate the risk of the bank being used to facilitate financial crime.
46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance This section sets out our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy, including reports from the Chairman and each of the Board Committee Chairs.
Directors report Page How we comply with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 48 Chairmans introduction 49 Who we are Board of Directors 51 Group Executive Committee 53 What we did in 2018 Board report 54 Board Audit Committee report 58 Board Nominations Committee report 68 Board Reputation Committee report 73 Board Risk Committee report 77 How we comply 83 Other statutory information 89 People 93 Remuneration report 99 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 47 Governance: Directors report How we comply with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Code The Code is not a rigid set of rules.
It consists of principles main and supporting and provisions.
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.
You can find our disclosures as follows: Leadership Page Remuneration Page Every company should be headed The board should be supplied in Executive directors remuneration by an effective board which is a timely manner with information in should be designed to promote collectively responsible for the a form and of a quality appropriate the long-term success of the long-term success of the company.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, Composition of the Board 50 Information provided to the stretching and rigorously applied.
Board of Directors 51 Board 86 Remuneration report 99 There should be a clear division The board should undertake of responsibilities at the head of a formal and rigorous annual There should be a formal the company between the running evaluation of its own performance and transparent procedure for of the board and the executive and that of its committees and developing policy on executive responsibility for the running of individual directors.
remuneration and for fixing the companys business.
No one the remuneration packages of Review of Board and Board individual should have unfettered individual directors.
No director Committee effectiveness 86 powers of decision.
should be involved in deciding All directors should be submitted his or her own remuneration.
Roles on the Board 83 for re-election at regular Remuneration report 99 The chairman is responsible intervals, subject to continued for leadership of the board and satisfactory performance.
ensuring its effectiveness on all Composition of the Board 50 Relations with aspects of its role.
Appointment and re-election shareholders Page Roles on the Board 83 of Directors 89 There should be a dialogue As part of their role as members with shareholders based on of a unitary board, non-executive Accountability Page the mutual understanding of directors should constructively objectives.
The board as a whole The board should present a fair, challenge and help develop has responsibility for ensuring balanced and understandable proposals on strategy.
that a satisfactory dialogue assessment of the companys Roles on the Board 83 with shareholders takes place.
Shareholder engagement 87 Strategic report 2 Effectiveness Page Risk management 129 The board should use general Viability statement 42 meetings to communicate with The board and its committees investors and to encourage should have the appropriate The board is responsible for their participation.
balance of skills, experience, determining the nature and extent independence and knowledge of the principal risks it is willing Shareholder engagement 87 of the company to enable them to take in achieving its strategic to discharge their respective duties objectives.
The board should and responsibilities effectively.
maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
Board of Directors 51 Board diversity 50 Risk management and internal control 86 There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the The board should establish formal appointment of new directors to and transparent arrangements the board.
for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk Appointment and re-election management and internal control of Directors 89 principles and for maintaining an All directors should be able to appropriate relationship with the allocate sufficient time to the companys auditors.
company to discharge their Board Audit Committee report 58 responsibilities effectively.
Accountability 86 Board of Directors 51 Attendance 84 Time commitment 85 All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Induction 85 Training and development 85 48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Chairmans introduction The Board believes that its role is to create and preserve value, not just for shareholders but for all stakeholders and society more widely.
Dear Fellow Shareholders legislation, independently from one another.
Code and The Regulations, both of which Barclays Services Limited drives efficiencies were published in 2018, represent a major Our aim is to ensure that our governance is fit for purpose, and in line with best practice in delivering operational and technology milestone in the UK governments suite services across the Barclays Group.
Each of corporate governance reforms which aim among FTSE100 companies.
I remain firmly of the view that the role of the Board is to of these subsidiaries has its own separately to build trust in business.
They emphasise, constituted board, comprising of both in particular, the importance of board create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of our shareholders and our wider executive and non-executive directors, with composition, culture, and the need for distinct responsibilities, which reflects the boards to understand the views of their key stakeholders.
To achieve this, it is vital that Barclays has a robust corporate governance different natures of the respective companies.
stakeholders and to report annually on how Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC their interests have been considered in board framework, which provides systems of checks and controls to ensure accountability and also have their own board committees.
Barclays PLC will report against the requirements promotes sound decision-making.
It is critical Central to this new corporate structure that we have policies and practices in place of The New Code and The Regulations is a new corporate governance framework.
in its annual report for the year ending which ensure that each of the Board and the In the course of preparing for structural Board Committees, and the wider Barclays 31 December 2019. reform it quickly became apparent that, Group, operates effectively, a factor that in order for the Board and the Barclays Group Board composition was at the forefront of our thinking when A number of changes were made to the to generate long-term sustainable value for undertaking structural reform.
A key element shareholders, we required a governance boards of Barclays PLC and the subsidiaries in of structural reform was a review of the 2018 to reflect the post-ring-fencing structure.
framework that would provide the strong governance processes across the Barclays foundation needed for the effective These included the appointment of Sir Gerry Group in order to ensure the effective operation Grimstone, who had been Deputy Chairman management of the restructured Barclays of each of the individual boards and their Group.
The new governance framework and Senior Independent Director of Barclays respective committees, recognising that this PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, as Chairman of is therefore based on a number of core is vital to the development and execution principles.
It makes clear that, although the Barclays Bank PLC and the appointment of of the Barclays Groups strategy.
Sir Ian Cheshire as Chairman of Barclays Bank Barclays PLC Board is the ultimate  of our ring-fenced bank, making body for all board-level issues and UK PLC.
Both Sir Gerry and Sir Ian are non-executive Directors of Barclays PLC.
and completion of structural reform matters that are significant to Barclays PLC, Following the financial crisis, the UK Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, Crawford Gillies succeeded Sir Gerry Grimstone government developed legislation to require the subsidiary boards cannot be required as Senior Independent Director of Barclays UK banks to separate their retail banking to do or not do anything that conflicts with PLC in April 2018.
In that role, Crawford led activities from other activities within their their legal and regulatory duties and or the process to appoint Nigel Higgins as my groups.
You can read more about the which came into effect on 1 January 2019, have also been developed to ensure the recruitment and appointment of our new are intended to strengthen the UK financial effective operation of the individual boards Chairman in the Governance in action system by simplifying banking groups and and board committees in recognition of the section of the Nominations Committee thus reducing the likelihood that customers fact that this is key to the development and report on page 72. and clients and the day-to-day services that execution of the Barclays Groups strategy.
they rely upon will be put at risk by a failure In particular, there are provisions dealing with In July 2018, Mary Anne Citrino joined Barclays PLC as a non-executive Director.
Mary Annes in another part of the business or shocks the escalation and resolution of any issues originating in global financial markets.
While the interaction of the experience of the financial services sector brings additional knowledge and perspective boards and board committees will inevitably Barclays was the first UK bank to be granted evolve over time, it is recognised that the to the Board, and her appointment reflects approval for its ring-fencing scheme, and the the ongoing work of the Nominations oversight, scrutiny and specialist input offered establishment of our ring-fenced bank was by the subsidiaries can and should contribute Committee to ensure that we have the right a significant event in our history.
Barclays PLC mix of individuals on the Board.
You can read to promoting the success of Barclays for the remains the parent company of the Barclays benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
more about the work of the Nominations Group.
The Barclays Group is organised Committee on pages 68 to 72. into two clearly defined business divisions Governance reforms Barclays UK and Barclays International.
In developing the new governance framework, Mary Annes appointment also brings These are housed in two banking subsidiaries the opportunity was taken to review our female representation on the Board to 27%, Barclays UK sits within Barclays Bank UK existing governance arrangements against which is a positive step towards achieving PLC, and Barclays International sits within the requirements of The UK Corporate our diversity target of having 33% female Barclays Bank PLC which operate alongside Governance Code 2018 The New Code and representation on the Board by 2020, to Barclays Services Limited but, in accordance The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting which we remain committed.
with the requirements of ring-fencing Regulations 2018 The Regulations.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 49 Governance: Directors report Chairmans introduction Purpose, values and culture Board effectiveness Board composition As an organisation, we have evolved on An effective Board is key to the establishment nearly every level, in shape, size and ambition and delivery of a companys strategy and Balance of non-executive Directors: and, as we look to the future, we need to we therefore continually seek to improve the executive Directors consider how we reflect the Barclays Group effectiveness of your Board.
One of the ways Chairman as it is today, and how we want it to be seen in which we have done this in 2018 is through 1 tomorrow.
Our code of conduct, The Barclays a Board effectiveness review facilitated by Executive Directors Way, provides a clear path towards achieving Independent Board Evaluation, an independent, 2 a dynamic and positive culture within the external corporate governance consultancy.
Non-executive Directors Barclays Group by outlining our common We have, in recent years, commissioned 12 purpose Creating Opportunities to Rise annually an external assessment of the and values, which govern our way of working.
effectiveness of the Board, the Board Gender balance Committees and the Directors, notwithstanding Female The Board receives regular reports on that the requirement is to do so only every 4 the alignment of Barclays culture with its three years.
More information on the 2018 Male purpose, values and strategy as well as effectiveness review, and our progress against 11 qualitative and quantitative feedback on the findings of the 2017 effectiveness review, matters of interest to colleagues through can be found on page 86.
We are also pleased the Culture Dashboard, which measures Length of tenure to report that, although not required by The and tracks our progress in embedding the Chairman and non-executive Directors Code, the boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC and desired culture, and the results of the Barclays Bank PLC have also elected to engage 1 Your View employee opinion surveys.
Independent Board Evaluation in order to 3 Personal accountability is central to our review and enhance their effectiveness and culture and how we behave is instrumental ensure that they are operating optimally.
in our achieving the highest standards of We look forward to the unique perspective performance, adding value to our customers those reviews will provide as to the interaction 2 and clients, and meeting our regulatory of the boards and board committees of these obligations.
The Board believes that its role companies, and the fitness for purpose of is to create and preserve value, not just for our new governance framework.
1 0-3 years 5 2 3-6 years 7 shareholders but for all stakeholders and Looking ahead society more widely.
The impact of our 3 6-9 years 3 The key areas of focus for 2019 will be behaviour and business on customers and Industry experience embedding the new corporate governance clients, colleagues, wider society and the Chairman and non-executive Directors framework, and enhancing our governance environment is monitored by the Board with practices such that we can ensure our 1 Financial Services 13 100% support from the Reputation Committee, compliance with The New Code and The 2 Political regulatory experience 12 92% which tracks key indicators across the areas Regulations.
2019 will also be a year for 3 Current recent Chair CEO 5 38% of culture, citizenship, conduct, and customer us to learn from the practical application 4 Accountancy auditing 2 15% and client satisfaction on an ongoing basis.
of this governance framework and the related 5 Operations and Technology 2 15% You can read more about the work of the processes in order to ensure that we have 6 Retail marketing 1 8% Reputation Committee on pages 73 to 76. a clear frame of reference in relation to International experience Stakeholder engagement decision making, oversight and escalation, Chairman and non-executive Directors and the delivery of functional support that We recognise the importance of listening to, and understanding the views of, our works for your Barclays Group and promotes 1 International UK 10 77% the long-term sustainable success of the stakeholders including colleagues such 2 International US 3 23% that this information can be used to inform Barclays Group.
3 International Rest of the World 3 23% the Boards decision-making.
The Directors Notes look to engage with stakeholders of the Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Barclays Group throughout the year, and are In relation to board experience based on the kept informed of shareholder views through location of the headquarters registered office regular updates, with insights provided by the of a company.
Head of Investor Relations and our brokers.
John McFarlane Crawford Gillies, our Senior Independent Chairman Director, is also available to meet with investors 20 February 2019 and other stakeholders.
You can read more about our current stakeholder engagement on pages 16 to 17.
A new regime for 2019 The New Code and The Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2019, and apply to reporting on financial years beginning on or after that date.
We will, therefore, report against their requirements in Barclays PLCs next Annual Report.
However, for a description of how we comply with The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Code and certain enhancements already made to our governance practices to reflect the requirements of The New Code and The Regulations please refer to the Governance reporting for 2019 section on page 88.
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Mike Ashley Board of Directors Non-executive Barclays understands the importance of having a Board with the right balance of skills, Appointed: experience and diversity, and the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board 18 September 2013 Nominations Committee.
The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value they bring to the Barclays Board are highlighted below.
Full biographies can be accessed online via home.
barclays investorrelations Relevant skills and experience Mike has deep knowledge of accounting, auditing and associated regulatory issues, having previously worked at KPMG for over 20 years.
Mikes former roles as the lead engagement partner on John McFarlane Tushar Morzaria the audits of large financial services groups including Chairman Group Finance HSBC, Standard Chartered and the Bank of England, Director Appointed: as Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG Europe LLP and as KPMG UKs Ethics Partner enable the 1 January 2015 Appointed: Board to benefit from Mikes expertise in management 15 October 2013 of professional risks, quality control and understanding of ethical issues.
His current Board and Committee positions outside of Barclays also support this.
Key current appointments Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Member, Cabinet Office Board: Member, International John is the Chair of Barclays PLC.
He is a senior figure Tushar is a chartered accountant with over Ethics Standards Board for Accountants: Member, in global banking and financial services circles having 25 years of strategic financial management, ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee: Member, spent 43 years in the sector, including time at Aviva, investment banking, operational and regulatory Charity Commission The Royal Bank of Scotland, Standard Chartered and relations experience.
He joined Barclays from JP Morgan, where he Audit Chair, Nominations, Risk, Reputation John was recently awarded the Freedom of the held various senior roles including the CFO of its City of London by Special Nomination for his Corporate & Investment Bank at the time of the outstanding achievements in the field of banking.
merger of the investment bank and the wholesale Tim Breedon CBE John brings considerable leadership, Group oversight treasury security services business.
Non-executive and banking experience to the Board and his roles Key current appointments outside Barclays are supportive of this.
Member, 100 Group Main Committee: Chair, Appointed: Key current appointments Sterling Risk Free Reference Rates Working Group 1 November 2012 Chairman, TheCityUK: Member, Financial Services Committees Trade and Investment Board: Director, Old Oak None Holdings Limited: Supervisory Board Member, Unibail-Rodamco Westfield S. E. : Cranfield School of Management Advisory Board: Member, Institut Crawford Gillies Relevant skills and experience International dEtudes Bancaires: Member, Presidents Senior Independent Tim has extensive financial services experience, Committee Confederation of British Industry Director knowledge of risk management and UK and EU Committees regulation, as well as an understanding of key Nominations Chair Appointed: investor issues and customer focus.
1 May 2014 He had a distinguished career with Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was the group Jes Staley CEO until June 2012 and this experience enables Group Chief Tim to provide challenge, advice and support to Executive Relevant skills and experience management on performance and decision-making.
Crawford has extensive business and management Appointed: Key current appointments experience at executive and board level spanning 1 December 2015 Chairman, Apax Global Alpha Limited: Chairman, over 30 years.
The Northview Group Limited Beneficial to the Board and key to understanding Committees stakeholder needs, is his experience in international Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk Chair and cross sector organisations, strong leadership Relevant skills and experience and strategic decision-making.
Gained from his Jes has nearly four decades of extensive experience former remuneration committee chairmanships at Sir Ian Cheshire in banking and financial services.
He brings a wealth Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC and other Non-executive of investment banking knowledge to the Board as current positions, Crawford brings to the Board well as strong executive leadership.
Appointed: He previously worked for more than 30 years at Key current appointments 3 April 2017 JP Morgan where he initially trained as a commercial Non-executive director, SSE plc: Chairman, banker, later advancing to the leadership of major Edrington Group businesses involving equities, private banking and Committees asset management and ultimately heading the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration Chair companys Global Investment Bank.
Relevant skills and experience Key current appointments Sir Ian is a member of the Board and is also Board member, Bank Policy Institute: Board member, Chair of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Institute of International Finance He brings to the Board substantial business experience Committees particularly in the international retail sector from his None lengthy executive career at the Kingfisher Group, as well as experience in sustainability and environmental matters.
Sir Ian holds strong credentials in leadership, is involved with many charitable organisations, such as The Prince of Waless Charitable Foundation and is highly regarded by the Government for his work with various Government departments.
Key current appointments Chairman, Maisons du Monde: Chairman, Menhaden plc: Lead non-executive director for the Government: Trustee, Institute for Government Committees Nominations home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 51 Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Mary Anne Citrino Reuben Jeffery III Diane Schueneman Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 25 July 2018 16 July 2009 25 June 2015 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Mary Anne is an experienced non-executive Director Reuben has extensive financial services experience, Diane is a member of the Board and also Chair with considerable financial services and investment particularly within investment banking and wealth of Barclays Services Limited and a member of the banking experience, following an executive career management, through his current positions and Board of Barclays US LLC.
spanning over 20 years with Morgan Stanley.
former senior roles with Goldman Sachs, where She brings to Barclays a wealth of experience he led their European Financial Institutions Group.
Her current other non-executive positions and in managing global, cross-discipline business senior advisory role with Blackstone, coupled with He is also able to provide the Board with insight operations, client services and technology in the her previous board and senior management level and experience of the US political and regulatory financial services industry.
Diane had an extensive positions with Dollar Tree Inc. Health Net, Inc, and environment, gained from his Government roles in the career at Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior Blackstone Advisory Partners contribute to the US, including as chairman of the Commodity Futures roles, including responsibility for banking, brokerage wide-ranging global, strategic and advisory Trading Commission and as an under Secretary of State.
services and technology provided to the companys experience she can provide to the Board.
retail and middle market clients.
Key current appointments Key current appointments Vice Chairman, Rockefeller Capital Management: Key current appointments Non-executive director, HP Inc. : Non-executive Director, Financial Services Volunteer Corps: Director, None director, Ahold Delhaize N. V. : Non-executive director, CQS Management Limited Committees Alcoa Corporation Committees Audit, Risk Committees Nominations, Risk Risk Mike Turner CBE Matthew Lester Non-executive Mary Francis CBE Non-executive Non-executive Appointed: Appointed: 1 January 2018 Appointed: 1 September 2017 1 October 2016 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Mike has considerable business and board-level Relevant skills and experience Matthew contributes to the Board strong financial experience gained from his lengthy career with Mary has extensive and diverse board-level management and regulatory experience, having BAE Systems PLC where he was CEO as well as experience across a range of industries, which held a number of senior finance roles across a range his non-executive positions.
He has a strong has developed from her previous non-executive of business sectors, including financial services.
commercial background and experience in directorships with Alliance & Leicester, Aviva, the Most recently he was chief financial officer of strategy and operational performance culture.
Bank of England, Centrica and Swiss Re Group, Royal Mail Group.
her former executive positions and current roles.
He brings significant leadership and strategic His financial expertise attained from past positions oversight experience to the Board, particularly She brings to the Board strong understanding of the interaction between public and private sectors, and current non-executive roles enables Matthew from his current roles and previous chairmanship skills in strategic decision-making and reputation to analyse effectively complex reporting and risk of GKN Plc.
management and promotes strong board management processes and appropriately challenge Key current appointments governance values.
Chairman, Babcock International Group PLC: Key current appointments Key current appointments Member, UK Governments Apprenticeship Non-executive director, Ensco PLC: Member of Non-executive director, Man Group plc: Ambassadors Network Advisory Panel, The Institute of Business Ethics Non-executive director, Capita plc Committees Member, UK Takeover Appeal Board Committees Reputation Committees Audit, Risk Remuneration, Reputation Chair Company Secretary Dambisa Moyo Sir Gerry Non-executive Grimstone Stephen Shapiro Appointed: Non-executive 1 May 2010 Appointed: Appointed: 1 November 2017 1 January 2016 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Dambisa is an international economist and Sir Gerry is a member of the Board and is also commentator on the global economy, with a PhD Relevant skills and experience Chair of Barclays Bank PLC.
She brings to Barclays a background Stephen was appointed Company Secretary in He is highly respected in the banking industry and in financial services and a wide knowledge and November 2017 having previously served as the brings to the Board investment banking, financial understanding of global economic, political and Group Company Secretary and Deputy General services and commercial experience both at social issues.
Prior to this, he practised non-executive director and chairman level.
Sir Gerry Her past non-executive directorships with Barrick law as a partner in a law firm in South Africa, has global business experience across the UK, Asia, Gold Corporation, SABMiller plc and Seagate and subsequently in corporate law and M&A at the Middle East and the US as a result of his former Technology plc and current positions highlight her Hogan Lovells in the UK.
Stephen has extensive positions at Schroders and Standard Life Aberdeen strong board-level experience of companies with experience in corporate governance, legal, regulatory plc as well as his other current positions.
Stephen serves on the Key current appointments Executive Committee of the GC100, the association Key current appointments Chairman, The City UK China Market Advisory of General Counsel and Company Secretaries Non-executive director, Chevron Corporation: Group: Lead non-executive, Ministry of Defence: working in FTSE 100 companies, and has previously Non-executive director, 3M Company: Member Member, Financial Services Trade and Investment served as Chairman of the ICC UKs Committee on of Investment Committee, Oxford University Board: Public interest non-executive director, Anti-Corruption.
Deloitte NWE LLP Endowment Fund Committees Committees Nominations Remuneration, Reputation 52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Who we are Group Executive Committee Group Executive Committee Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance Director, who are members of the Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by Jes Staley, can be found on page 51.
Paul Compton Tim Throsby Group Chief Chief Executive Operating Officer Officer, Barclays International Bob Hoyt Ashok Vaswani Group General Chief Executive Counsel Officer, Barclays UK Laura Padovani C S Venkatakrishnan Group Chief Group Chief Compliance Officer Risk Officer Tristram Roberts Group Human Resources Director Group Executive Committee meetings are also attended on a regular basis by the Chief Internal Auditor, the Company Secretary, and an ex officio member drawn from senior management.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 53 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board report The Barclays Board In collaboration with the respective boards The Board Committees The Barclays Group is organised into two of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank The Board is empowered through its Articles clearly defined business divisions Barclays PLC, the Board has developed a governance of Association to delegate all or any of its UK and Barclays International.
These are framework that seeks to provide the powers, authorities and discretions to any housed in two banking subsidiaries Barclays strong foundation needed for the effective committee or committees as it thinks fit.
UK sits within Barclays Bank UK PLC, and management of the restructured Barclays The principal Board Committees are the Board Barclays International sits within Barclays Group and thus generate long-term Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee, Bank PLC which operate alongside Barclays sustainable returns for shareholders.
the Board Reputation Committee, the Board Services Limited but, in accordance with the Nominations Committee and the Board As stated above, the Board is the ultimate requirements of ring-fencing legislation, Remuneration Committee.
decision-making body for all board-level independently from one another.
Barclays issues and matters that are significant to The Board Committees are responsible for Services Limited drives efficiencies in delivering Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and overseeing matters at the Barclays Group level operational and technology services across Barclays Bank PLC because of their potential and their respective authorities extend to all the Barclays Group.
Barclays PLC is the parent strategic, financial, regulatory or reputational matters relating to their responsibilities for the company of the Barclays Group.
implications or because of their potential Barclays Group, save to the extent that the consequences for the Barclays Group as matters relate solely to either Barclays Bank Each of the three subsidiaries has its own separately constituted board, comprising a whole.
UK PLC or Barclays Bank PLC, and or their respective subsidiaries, and fall solely within of both executive and non-executive directors, As noted in the Chairmans introduction, with distinct commercial, legal and regulatory the remit of the terms of reference of the internal governance processes have been respective board committees of either Barclays responsibilities which reflect the different developed to ensure the effective operation natures of the respective entities.
Barclays Bank UK PLC or Barclays Bank PLC in which of the individual boards and board committees case the matter shall be dealt with by such Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC also of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK have their own board committees.
committee, within the parameters set by PLC and Barclays Bank PLC respectively, in the relevant Board Committee.
The Board The Barclays PLC Board the Board is recognition of the fact that this is key to the Committees report to the Board.
responsible for the overall leadership of the development and execution of the Barclays Barclays Group, including establishing its Groups strategy.
The Schedule of Matters The Board has defined the roles and objectives purpose, values and strategy and satisfying Reserved details the key decisions in respect of each of the Board Committees, and provided itself as to the alignment of Barclays culture of which the Board has control.
The Schedule specific levels of discretion within which they with its purpose, values and strategy.
It is of Matters Reserved to the Board is reviewed can operate.
In line with all Board Committees also responsible for ensuring that management regularly to ensure that it remains relevant, in the Barclays Group, the Board Committees maintains a sound system of audit, risk and was recently updated to reflect our must act in accordance with the remit of management, compliance and internal control.
new corporate structure, evolving corporate their delegated authorities and their terms A sound system of internal control provides governance requirements, and industry of reference.
The terms of reference are assurance of effective and efficient operations, best practice.
A summary of the matters reviewed annually, and were recently updated internal financial controls and compliance reserved to the Board can be found at to reflect our new corporate structure, evolving with law and regulation.
corporate governance requirements, and industry best practice.
A copy of each Board responsibility, the Board considers what is appropriate for the Barclays Groups business Committees terms of reference can be found at home.
and reputation, the materiality of financial and other risks and the relevant costs and benefits You can read more about what the Board of implementing controls.
See page 86 for and each of the Board Committees did during further details on those systems of controls.
Barclays Parent company PLC Barclays Barclays Barclays Subsidiary companies Bank UK PLC Bank PLC Services Limited Barclays Barclays Barclays Business divisions UK International Execution Services 54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board Governance Framework Barclays PLC Responsible for the overall leadership of the Barclays Group Audit Committee Risk Committee Reputation Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Reviews accounting Monitors and recommends Oversees reporting Reviews the composition Sets principles and policies and financial financial and operational on Barclays culture of the Board parameters of reports risk appetite remuneration for Barclays Considers Barclays Recommends the Monitors the internal Monitors the financial conduct and reputational appointment of new Considers and approves control environment and operational risk risk issues and exposures Directors remuneration for executive profile Directors and senior Considers the adequacy Reviews and approves Considers succession executives and scope of the internal Reviews limits for types of Barclays approach to plans for the Chairman and external audit financial and operational citizenship, environmental and Group Chief Oversees employee share risk and social matters Executive schemes Reviews and monitors the Barclays Groups Oversees Barclays Oversees the annual whistleblowing policies approach to customer Board effectiveness and regulatory matters review See page 60 for further See page 77 for further See page 73 for further See page 68 for further See page 125 for further information information information information information The Boards key areas of focus Board allocation of time % 2018 2017 During 2018, the Board focused on the 4 1 Strategy formulation and matters outlined in the table below, in line implementation monitoring 44 47 1 with the strategy of the Barclays Group and 2 Finance the eight Principal Risks identified by our including capital and liquidity 12 15 Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
3 Governance and risk including regulatory issues 42 35 4 Other including remuneration 2 3 3 2 Based on scheduled Board meetings Strategy formulation and monitoring Debated and provided input to management on the execution of the overall strategy of the Barclays Group, and reflected on that strategy with longer-term views on what could be done to build on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, enhance financial resilience and deliver consistent and stronger returns through the business cycle.
The topics considered by the Board included: a continued focus on ways to enhance the Barclays Groups returns potential growth opportunities for the Barclays Group in delivering sustainable enhanced returns through the cycle constraints and risks to strategy execution, including economic assumptions, expected regulatory requirements on capital and solvency ratios, investor expectations, potential impacts for clients and customers, and the various approaches to the distribution of capital the allocation of capital areas of shareholder focus in relation to the overall strategy of the Barclays Group strategic approach to costs optimisation, including the use of Barclays Execution Services to deliver shared services to the Barclays Group.
Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against the 2018 execution priorities and capital targets of the Barclays Group, received insights on stakeholder, employee and cultural matters including results from employee opinion surveys, and updates on items of focus for the Barclays Group Executive Committee.
Monitored the progress of the execution and implementation of the structural reform programme and approved matters in connection therewith including capital reductions.
Assessed and debated the potential implications of the UKs preparations to leave the EU following the EU Referendum result and received updates on the preparations of the Barclays Group, including the expansion of our Irish legal entity, Barclays Bank Ireland, as well as updates from the Chair of the Risk Committee.
Received Deep Dive presentations from management on key areas of the Barclays Groups business and lessons learned from specific events.
Finance including capital and liquidity Debated, assessed and approved the Barclays Groups Medium Term Plan for 2018-2020.
Regularly assessed financial performance of the Barclays Group and its main businesses through reports from the Group Finance Director.
Reviewed and approved Barclays financial results prior to publication, including approving full year and half year dividends.
Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays strategic and financial results announcements, with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations and brokers.
Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the Barclays Groups Medium Term Plan 2019-2021 and subsequently approved the final plan.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 55 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board report Governance and risk including regulatory issues Debated and approved the 2018 risk appetite for the Barclays Group.
Discussed and received regular updates on stress testing.
Regularly assessed Barclays overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from the Chief Risk Officer and the Chair of the Risk Committee.
Discussed and received regular updates directly from the Chief Controls Officer on the internal controls and framework of the Barclays Group and monitored progress of: the Barclays Internal Control Enhancement Plan the programme for remediation of identified risk and control issues the Risk and Control Self Assessment process improvements to the operating model of the Controls Office.
Received reports on Barclays operational and technology capability, including in relation to the recruitment of a Chief Security Officer, the launch of the Joint Operations Centre, and cyber security.
Approved the Barclays Groups 2018 Recovery Plan and considered the US Resolution Plan.
Both plans considered Barclays Preferred Resolution Strategy, which is developed with the Bank of England and involves a single-point of entry resolution with bail-in at the Barclays PLC level.
Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal and regulatory risks and issues facing the Barclays Group refer to Note 27 in the financial statements.
Met with representatives of Barclays UK and US regulators to enable the Board to hear first-hand about regulatory expectations and their specific views on Barclays.
Received and considered regular updates on communications from Barclays UK and US regulators.
Considered matters relating to Board succession, including the recruitment and appointment of a new Chairman and approved appointments to the Board and Board Committees.
Received and considered regular updates from the Chairs of the Boards principal Board Committees on the matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
You can read more about what each of the Board Committees did during 2018 on the following pages.
Received regular updates from the Chairs of Barclays Bank UK, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Services Limited.
Approved: the new corporate governance framework for the Barclays Group, which reflects the corporate structure post-structural reform and recent corporate governance reforms the operating parameters within which Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and their respective groups, should run themselves in compliance with relevant law and regulation.
Considered and discussed other corporate governance matters and regulatory matters, including the Senior Managers and Certification Regime and the extension thereof.
Engaged with stakeholders through a number of mechanisms, including: meeting with institutional investors at seminars and conferences across many geographic locations, and meeting with private shareholders at the AGM receiving updates on shareholder views through regular updates, with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations and brokers monitoring the impact of our behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues and society with support from the Reputation Committee, which tracks key indicators across the areas of culture, citizenship, conduct, and customer and client satisfaction, and used the insights gained to inform the Boards decision-making.
Monitored the impact of our behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues and society.
Received regular reports on the alignment of Barclays culture with its purpose, values and strategy as well as qualitative and quantitative feedback on matters of interest to colleagues.
Received updates from the Reputation Committee on the publication of policy statements on Coal, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, as well as Barclays Energy and Climate Change Statement, and discussed feedback received thereon.
Received training on whistleblowing and the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
Considered the results of the 2017 Board effectiveness review and action plan and considered the process for and findings of the 2018 Board effectiveness review.
More information on the 2018 Board effectiveness review can be found on page 50.
Other including remuneration Considered progress on Barclays talent and succession planning and hosted receptions for key talent within the Barclays Group, and monitored the overall diversity of the leadership pipeline to ensure that the broadest spectrum of leaders are being attracted to the Barclays Group.
Received updates on the Banks diversity and inclusion initiatives, including from the Chair of the Nominations Committee, and debated the key business drivers for promoting diversity of gender, social and ethnic background, cognitive and personal strengths when making appointments to the Board and succession planning.
Considered and approved the 2018 incentive funding pools for the Barclays Group and allocation among each business and function.
Please refer to the Remuneration report on pages 99 to for further details.
56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance in action Cyber security and operational resilience The way in which businesses operate The strengthening of controls and and consumers manage their lives is governance relating to technology.
At Barclays, our We have agreed standards and processes customers undertake over six million digital in place to manage the risks of operating banking interactions every day through and maintaining a complex technology online and mobile services.
The impact of estate across the Barclays Group.
We have digitisation on the financial services sector also reviewed our most critical banking has generally been a positive one, providing services, and the internal processes consumers with the ability to engage that support them, in order to ensure through their preferred channel, at a time that appropriate levels of resilience are of their choosing, without having to visit designed and implemented for each a physical branch.
However, digitisation service, depending on its criticality, and has also resulted in instances of service to identify and remove any single points disruption.
In a recent study on cyber and of failure.
A senior Accountable Executive technology resilience, the Financial Conduct has been assigned to each critical banking Authority FCA noted that cyberattacks service, with responsibility for ensuring accounted for 18% of the operational the resilience of that service and incidents reported to the FCA between undertaking regular testing.
October 2017 and September 2018, and We also monitor both internal and external that technology outages in the financial operational incidents as part of our formal services sector are becoming more frequent.
Lessons Learned and Post Incident Review processes, as well as regularly using scenario The Board considers that cyber security planning to further improve our activities and operational resilience are critical issues and plans in the event of an incident.
disruptions that affect customers access to their accounts, and their money, impact We believe that our approach is proving confidence in the wider banking sector.
successful between 2016 and 2017, The Barclays Group is focused on reducing operational incidents caused by technology the volume of operational incidents, and reduced by 15%: between 2017 and 2018, is seeking to do this through: operational incidents caused by technology Continued investment in our IT reduced by 13%.
We operate a multi-channel do still occur and, when they do, we focus strategy, with the channels supported by on minimising the impact on customers.
different technology systems to ensure This includes providing clear and timely that we can continue to service our updates through different channels in order customers in the event that one or more to signpost customers to those services channels encounters difficulties.
are also, often, non-digital alternatives Whilst the Board is actively engaged in available for use as back-up.
monitoring and overseeing cyber security The provision of around-the-clock and operational resilience, the control resilience and security.
Nearly a quarter aspects of these issues are the responsibility of the Barclays Groups global workforce of the Audit Committee and the operational of 85,000 is dedicated to security and risk issues are the responsibility of the Risk technology.
In order to enable our Committee.
You can read more about the customers to transact 24 7, we seek to work of the Audit Committee and the Risk ensure around-the-clock resilience and Committee on pages 58 to 67 and pages 77 security.
We have created a global network to 82 respectively.
of Joint Operation Centres with state-ofthe-art technology and highly trained staff to enable always on monitoring, tracking, and handling of cyber threats and technology issues.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 57 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Audit Committee report Having overseen preparations for the implementation of IFRS 9, the Committee was well placed to monitor the impact of the new standard and ensure that such impact was clearly communicated to shareholders.
Dear Fellow Shareholders continued my engagement with Barclays I am proud to be Barclays Whistleblowers regulators both in the UK and the US.
As Champion, I have specific 2018 was another year of challenge and change for Barclays.
One of the Committees I reported regularly on the activities of the responsibility for overseeing the integrity, Committee to the Board of Barclays PLC.
independence and effectiveness of the most significant activities was overseeing Barclays transition from IAS 39 to the IFRS 9 Barclays Groups whistleblowing arrangements, Ensuring continued focus on the including the policies and procedures on Financial Instruments accounting standard, strengthening of Barclays control in particular the introduction of a forwardprotecting against victimisation.
In this environment remained a priority for the capacity, I am pleased to report that the looking expected credit loss ECL model, Committee in 2018.
I held regular meetings which is designed to recognise losses earlier.
recommendations arising from the independent with the Chief Internal Auditor and members review of the whistleblowing programme that Having overseen the Barclays Groups of her senior management team to ensure preparation for the implementation of IFRS 9 was commissioned by the Board in 2017 have that I was aware of current work programmes been implemented in full.
This includes the over the last few years, my Committee and any emerging issues.
I also agreed the colleagues and I were well placed to monitor standing-up of a centralised team to review Chief Internal Auditors objectives, and the and assess all concerns raised and, the impact of the new standard and ensure outcomes of her performance assessment that such impact was clearly communicated as necessary, direct those concerns to an and remuneration.
Following the success appropriate team for investigation.
To this end, and in line with of previous networking events with Barclays the Committees responsibility for ensuring FCA and the PRA concluded their regulatory Internal Audit BIA, Committee members processes in relation to the investigation of the integrity of Barclays published financial were once again given the opportunity information by debating and challenging the certain matters involving our whistleblowing to meet with senior members of the BIA programme, and Barclays Bank PLC reached critical judgements and estimates made by management team on a less formal basis.
management, we provided input on material a settlement with the New York State Having taken over the co-ordination of the Department of Financial Services in respect disclosures relating to IFRS 9.
Please refer to the report on the following pages for details Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA of its investigation into the same matters.
process in 2017, the Chief Controls Office has Certain information relating to the of all of the material matters considered by the Committee in the last year.
developed a more detailed self-assessment whistleblowing programme will be provided process which has assisted the business in to the FCA and the PRA for the years On 1 April 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC was proactively identifying controls which require 2018-2020, and to the New York State established thereby completing structural remediation.
We received regular updates Department of Financial Services for the years reform.
Having previously agreed the from the Chief Controls Office on those 2017-2020. allocation of responsibilities, the Committee controls and other issues.
Following the worked closely with the audit committees Committee performance stand-up of the Barclays Bank UK PLC The performance of the Committee was of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank and Barclays Bank PLC audit committees, PLC and with management to embed the assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, the focus of these updates was on issues an independent, external corporate necessary information flows and reporting of significance to the Barclays Group, most in order to ensure that all three of the audit governance consultancy as part of the of which related to services supplied by annual effectiveness review of the Board committees can discharge their responsibilities Barclays Execution Services.
with the minimum amount of duplication.
The results show that the Committee is operating effectively, and the More generally, the intention of the new The Committee continued to engage with structure is that all of the Barclays Group senior management regarding areas of control Board takes a high level of assurance from the technical competence and diligence entities operate alongside one another, but weaknesses, and received presentations from in accordance with the requirements of a number of different areas of the organisation of the Committees work.
It is considered well-constituted, with the right balance ring-fencing legislation.
With this in mind, on the actions taken to address unsatisfactory I held regular meetings with the chairs of the audit reports.
Last years review commented on the need to manage a Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC In assessing control issues for disclosure in audit committees and recently attended demanding agenda efficiently so that time the Annual Report, the Committee applied is allocated to the most significant items meetings of each of their committees.
In turn, similar concepts to those used for assessing the chairs of those entities attended at least for discussion.
internal financial controls for the purposes of one Committee meeting during 2018.
The conclusion we reached met frequently with members of senior is that there are no control issues that are management, including the Group Finance considered to be a material weakness and Director and Chief Internal Auditor, and which therefore merit specific disclosure.
58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Committee sought to address this by Executive, Group Finance Director, Committee allocation of time % embedding the progress made by the Audit, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Controls Officer, Reputation and Risk Committees in 2017 to 1 Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, 6 2 avoid duplication where there is an overlap Group General Counsel and Head of 5 of responsibilities, and focusing on time Compliance, as well as representatives from 3 management in meetings such that discussions, the businesses and other functions.
The lead and presenters, are limited to the allocated audit partner of KPMG the Barclays Groups 4 time.
The results of this years review note external auditor attended all Committee that there has been encouraging progress in meetings in 2018 from January to July this relation to focus on key issues, but that there was Guy Bainbridge: from August onwards is still work to be done.
The Committee 2018 2017 this was Michelle Hinchliffe.
The Committee will continue to focus on this point in the 1 Control issues 8 11 held a number of separate private sessions forthcoming year.
2 Business control with each of the Chief Internal Auditor and environment 12 15 the lead audit partner, which were not You can read more about the outcomes of 3 Financial results attended by management.
the review of Board, Board Committee and including IFRS 9 46 33 individual Director effectiveness on page 71.
4 Internal audit matters Member Meetings attended eligible to attend 14 25 5 External audit matters 13 8 Mike Ashley 9 9 Looking ahead Tim Breedon 9 9 6 Other including litigation, In 2019, the Committee will continue to governance and Crawford Gillies 9 9 monitor the impact of IFRS 9, and the new compliance 7 8 Matthew Lester 9 9 IFRS 16 accounting standard pursuant to The increased amount of time allocated to financial Diane Schueneman 9 9 which companies will be required to bring results in 2018 reflects the role of the Committee most leases on-balance sheet from 1 January in monitoring the impact of the IFRS 9 Financial Committee role and responsibilities 2019.
We will also further develop our Instruments accounting standard and ensuring The Committee is responsible for: that such impact was clearly communicated relationship with the audit committees of to shareholders, including providing input on assessing the integrity of the Barclays Groups Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to material disclosures.
financial reporting and satisfying itself that ensure that all three audit committees operate The reduced amount of time allocated to internal any significant financial judgements made effectively and in a streamlined manner.
audit matters in 2018 is reflective of the progress by management are sound made by Barclays Internal Audit in addressing Finally, Sally Clark, our current Chief Internal the Matters Requiring Attention identified by evaluating the effectiveness of the Barclays the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the issues Auditor, has decided to retire.
I would like Groups internal controls, including internal arising from the PRAs horizontal review of the to take this opportunity to thank her both financial controls function, and the recommendations made by personally and on behalf of the Committee for scrutinising the activities and performance Deloitte following its independent review of her support and dedication in the role over the Barclays Internal Audit in 2017. of the internal and external auditors, including last five years.
The Committee will be involved monitoring their independence and objectivity in the process to appoint a successor, and overseeing the relationship with the Committee composition and meetings will be seeking to ensure that we appoint Barclays Groups external auditor The Committee is composed solely of a candidate who continues with her work reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness independent non-executive Directors, establishing BIA as a world-leading function.
of the Barclays Groups whistleblowing with membership designed to provide the policies and procedures breadth of financial expertise and commercial overseeing significant legal and regulatory acumen it needs to fulfil its responsibilities.
investigations, including the proposed Its members as a whole have recent and litigation statement for inclusion in the relevant experience of the banking and statutory accounts.
financial services sector, in addition to general Mike Ashley management and commercial experience, Chair, Board Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference are available and are financially literate.
barclays corporategovernance 20 February 2019 Mike Ashley, who is the designated financial expert on the Committee for the purposes The Committees work of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is a former The significant matters addressed by the audit partner who, during his executive career, Committee during 2018, and in evaluating acted as lead engagement partner on the the Annual Report and financial statements, audits of a number of large financial services are described on the following pages.
Matthew Lester held a number of Financial statement reporting issues senior finance roles across a range of business The Committees main responsibility in sectors, including financial services, during relation to Barclays financial reporting is his executive career.
You can find more details to review with both management and the of the experience of Committee members external auditor the appropriateness of in their biographies on pages 51 and 52.
Barclays financial statements, including During 2018, the Committee met nine times quarterly results announcements, half-year and the chart above shows how it allocated its time.
Attendance by members at Committee meetings is shown below.
Committee meetings were attended by representatives from management, including the Group Chief home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 59 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Audit Committee report and annual financial statements, and Significant accounting policies, to the the FRCs IFRS 9 Thematic Review, which supporting analyst presentations, with its consolidated financial statements.
looked at disclosures in 2018 interim primary focus being on: accounts relating to the implementation Two new significant accounting standards of IFRS 9. assessing whether the Annual Report, became effective from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue The Committee sought to ensure that Barclays understandable and provides the from Contracts with Customers.
Further took due account of the matters raised in information necessary for shareholders to information regarding these changes can be the letters and papers described above in its assess Barclays position and performance, found in Note 1 to the consolidated financial external reporting, and sought to enhance and business model and strategy statements.
During 2018, the Committee was clarify relevant disclosures, as appropriate.
material areas where significant judgements regularly updated on Barclays implementation From time to time, Barclays receives comment have been made, along with any significant of IFRS 9, in particular in relation to the new letters from the SEC in relation to its review assumptions or estimates, or where ECL model, which represented a fundamental of the Annual Report and other publicly filed significant issues have been discussed change in approach to impairment financial statements.
Such comment letters with or challenged by the external auditor The Committee discussed with management and Barclays responses are made publicly the quality and acceptability of accounting the key technical decisions and interpretations available by the SEC on its website, sec.
gov, policies and practices required, and Barclays approach to these.
once it has closed each such review.
Barclays any correspondence from financial did not receive any such comment letters from reporting regulators in relation to Barclays Financial reporting regulators and Barclays the SEC during 2018. financial reporting.
The Committee from time to time considers comment letters and papers from external Significant judgements and estimates Accounting policies and practices bodies including the SEC and the Financial The significant judgements and estimates The Committee discussed reports from Reporting Council FRC.
In that regard, the and actions taken by the Committee in management in relation to the identification Committee considered the following: relation to the 2018 Annual Report and of critical accounting judgements and key financial statements are outlined below.
sources of estimation uncertainty, significant the FRCs Annual Review of Corporate The significant judgements and estimates are accounting policies and the proposed Governance and Reporting, which broadly comparable in nature to prior years.
disclosure of these in the 2018 Annual Report.
summarised key characteristics of good Each of these matters was discussed with the corporate reporting from the 2017 18 Following discussions with both management external auditor during the year and, where reporting year and the external auditor, the Committee appropriate, has been addressed in the the FRCs Year-End Advice Letter to Audit approved the critical accounting judgements, Auditors Report on page 248 to 255.
Committee Chairs and Finance Directors, significant accounting policies and disclosures, which highlighted key developments for which are set out in Note 1, the 2018 19 reporting year Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Fair, balanced and Barclays is required to ensure Assessed through discussion Having evaluated all of the available understandable that its external reporting is fair, with and challenge of management, information and the assurances reporting balanced and understandable.
including the Group Chief Executive provided by management, the including country-byand Group Finance Director, whether Committee concluded that the The Committee undertakes an country reporting and disclosures in the Annual Report and processes underlying the preparation assessment on behalf of the Board Pillar 3 reporting other financial reports were fair, of Barclays published financial in order to provide the Board with balanced and understandable.
statements, including the 2018 Annual assurance that it can make the Report and financial statements, Evaluated reports from Barclays PLCs statement required by The UK were appropriate in ensuring that Disclosure Committee on its assessment Corporate Governance Code 2016. those statements were fair, balanced of the content, accuracy and tone of and understandable.
In assessing Barclays financial results Established through reports from management that there were no statements over the course of 2018, the Committee specifically addressed indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
and provided input to management on the disclosure and presentation of: Evaluated the outputs of Barclays the impact of IFRS 9 on, among other internal control assessments and Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal things, Barclays CET1 ratio, credit risk disclosures in the Pillar 3 Report control process.
and shareholders equity Assessed disclosure controls and procedures.
the Group Finance Directors presentations to analysts Confirmed that management had the level of segmental reporting.
reported on and evidenced the basis on which representations to the The Committee recommended to the external auditors were made.
Board that the 2018 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Impairment Barclays has implemented IFRS 9 Assessed impairment experience against The Committee received a number refer to Note 7 to the by developing models to calculate forecast, and considered whether of deep dive presentations from the financial statements expected credit losses in a range impairment provisions were appropriate.
Finance and Credit officers responsible of economic scenarios.
The key for the IFRS 9 implementation.
Evaluated the impact of IFRS 9 areas of judgement include setting on impairment.
The Committee considered in detail modelling assumptions, developing Monitored the Barclays Groups ECLs, the key IFRS 9 assumptions relating methodologies for the weighting model changes, scenario updates, to staging criteria and the weighting of economic scenarios, establishing post-model adjustments, and volatility.
criteria to determine significant Monitored SOX compliance in relation deterioration in credit quality and The Committee reviewed model to IFRS 9 controls and, specifically, the application of management adjustments and scenario updates the ECL calculation.
adjustments to the model output.
made by management to ensure that impairment allowances were set at appropriate and adequate levels.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the basis of the adjustment of 150m made to reflect current economic uncertainty in the UK.
The Committee agreed that the provision levels for impairment were appropriate.
In light of the need for additional disclosures to be made in relation to IFRS 9, the Committee reviewed managements dry run of the year end IFRS 9 disclosures which focused on those disclosures that were either new or significantly impacted.
The Committee also reviewed the final IFRS 9 disclosures which, whilst understandably still evolving, the Committee believed gave a good explanation of the impacts.
Conduct provisions Barclays makes certain Regularly analysed the judgements and Throughout the year, the Committee refer to Note 25 to the assumptions and estimates, estimates made with regard to Barclays and management continued to monitor financial statements analysis of which underpins provisioning for PPI claims, taking into closely any changes in customer or provisions made for the costs account forecasts and assumptions claims management companies of customer redress, such as made for PPI complaints and actual behaviour in light of the FCA time-bar for Payment Protection claims experience for Barclays and and marketing campaign, and the Insurance PPI.
the industry as a whole, including ongoing impact of the Plevin case.
the volume of invalid PPI claims.
Having reviewed the key factors impacting the PPI provision, the PPI Debated the impact on the future range provision was increased in Q1 2018. of provisions arising from i the August Following this increase, the Committee 2019 time-bar on claims, ii the PPI agreed with managements assessment marketing campaigns, and iii the fee that the current provision of 888m cap on the submission of PPI complaints was appropriate.
The Committee noted by claims management companies.
that this estimate remains subject to Evaluated the adequacy of the PPI significant uncertainty, in particular provision, considering whether the regarding the level of valid customer total provision is within the modelled claims that may be received in the range of future outcomes, and whether period to August 2019.
In this context, the external auditor agreed with the Committee was satisfied that managements analysis and approach.
sensitivities to the key variables were Monitored the position on provisions appropriately disclosed.
for alternative PPI card protection and payment break plan insurance and considered whether further provisions were required.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 61 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Legal, competition Although a number of significant Evaluated advice on the status The Committee discussed provisions and regulatory legacy litigation issues were of current legal, competition and and utilisation.
Having reviewed the provisions resolved during 2018, Barclays regulatory matters.
information available to determine refer to Notes 25 is engaged in various legal, what was both probable and could Assessed managements judgements and 27 to the financial competition and regulatory be reliably estimated, the Committee and estimates of the levels of provisions statements matters.
The extent of the impact agreed that the level of provision to be taken and the adequacy of on Barclays of these matters at the year end was appropriate.
those provisions, based on available cannot always be predicted, The Committee also considered that information and evidence.
but matters can give rise to the disclosures made provided the Considered the adequacy of disclosure, provisioning for contingent and appropriate information for investors recognising that any decision to set other liabilities depending on the regarding the legal, competition and provisions involves significant judgement.
regulatory matters being addressed The level of provisioning is subject by the Barclays Group.
to management judgement on the basis of legal advice and is, therefore, an area of focus for the Committee.
Long-term viability The Directors are required to Evaluated at year end a report from The Committee agreed that the refer to the Viability make a statement in the Annual management setting out the view appropriate time frame for the viability statement on pages 42 Report as to the long-term viability of Barclays long-term viability based statement continued to be three years.
The Committee on Barclays MTP.
The report covered Taking into account the assessment provides advice to the Board forecasts for capital, liquidity and by the Risk Committee of stress testing on the form and content of leverage, and included forecast results and risk appetite, the Committee the statement, including the performance against regulatory targets, agreed to recommend the viability underlying assumptions.
outcomes of the stress test of the statement to the Board for approval.
MTP and forecast capital and liquidity performance against stress hurdle rates, funding and liquidity forecasts as well as an assessment of global risk themes and the Barclays Groups risk profile.
Considered the viability statement in conjunction with Barclays risk statements and strategy business model disclosures.
Addressed feedback from investors, the FRC and other stakeholders on viability statements in general.
Valuations Barclays exercises judgement in Evaluated reports from the Group The Committee noted that there refer to Notes 13 the valuation and disclosure of Financial Controller.
were no new significant valuation to 17 to the financial financial instruments, derivative judgements during the year.
Monitored the valuation methods statements assets and certain portfolios, applied by management to significant particularly where quoted market valuation items, including the Barclays prices are not available.
Groups Education, Social, Housing and Local Authority portfolio and a valuation disparity with a third party in respect of a specific long-dated derivative portfolio.
Tax Barclays is subject to taxation in Evaluated the appropriateness of tax The Committee reviewed Barclays refer to Note 9 to the a number of jurisdictions globally risk provisions to cover existing tax risk.
global tax risk and associated financial statements and makes judgements with provisions for the full year and noted Confirmed that the forecasts and regard to provisioning for tax that gross tax risk increased slightly, assumptions supporting the recognition at risk, and on the recognition and the level of tax provisions and valuation of deferred tax assets and measurement of deferred remained appropriate.
was in line with Barclays Medium Term tax assets.
The Committee was pleased to note Monitored the impact to Barclays of the that the Barclays Group was not US framework for tax legislation, which affected by BEAT in respect of 2018. was enacted on 22 December 2017, including the Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax BEAT.
62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Other significant matters Apart from financial reporting matters, the the performance, objectivity and Committee has responsibility for oversight of independence of the external auditor.
the effectiveness of Barclays internal controls, The most significant matters considered the performance and effectiveness of BIA and during 2018 are described in the table below.
Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Internal control The effectiveness of the overall Evaluated and tracked the status of the The Committee welcomed the ongoing Read more about control environment, including most material control issues identified transition to a business as usual Barclays internal the status of any material control by management through regular reports environment following the significant control and risk issues and the progress of specific from the Chief Controls Officer, assessed volume of work that had been management remediation plans.
against the Controls Maturity Model.
undertaken as part of the Barclays processes on page 86.
Internal Controls Enhancement Evaluated the status of specific material Programme, supported by the control issues being data management, RCSA process.
compliance, cyber, credit risk, model risk, resilience, technology and transaction The Committee continued to use the operations and tracked the progress of output from the RCSA process in its the associated remediation plans against review of the control environment, agreed time frames.
and welcomed the introduction of Considered the second line of defence more granularity, which has provided greater visibility on controls requiring role in the oversight of operational risk controls, including financial controls remediation and associated risks.
The Committee, together with the over operational risk.
Risk Committee, received a deep dive Evaluated reports on the internal control presentation on this enhanced process environment from the external auditor.
The Committee Evaluated quarterly updates on lessons also received deep dives on control hot learned from Critical risk events, which spots, including operational resilience were tracked by the Chief Controls Office.
The Committee monitored the implementation of the Operational Risk and Control System ORAC and tracked the transition of all issue reporting into that system.
In addition, the Committee continued to provide feedback on the reporting of material control issues.
Business control The effectiveness of the control Assessed reports on individual The Committee received regular deep environment environment in each individual businesses and functions on their dive control environment presentations.
business, including the status control environment, questioned the These provided further detail of of any material control issues heads of the relevant businesses or managements assessment of the and the progress of specific functions on control concerns and business unit control environment remediation plans.
scrutinised any identified control and key areas of focus, including key failures and closely monitored the control hot spots for the businesses.
status of remediation plans or work The Committee also received a number streams to enhance the respective of presentations from business heads control environments.
The Committee challenged the business Received updates directly from senior regarding their role in identifying management, and scrutinised action the control issues, and requested plans, in relation to remediation plans confirmation from management following unsatisfactory audit findings.
regarding the remediation programme Received updates from management as well as the time frames and on the Designated Market Activities accountability for delivery of that plan.
remediation plan, which addresses Barclays regulatory commitments to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Fed and other US and UK regulators in relation to sales and trading practices across the FX, Rates and other Markets related business areas.
The effectiveness of the control Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO The Committee was pleased to environment in the Chief control environment through deep dives note continuing progress to address Operating Office COO and the and management updates, taking the control issues in accordance with status and remediation of any opportunity to directly challenge and the agreed timescales.
question functional leaders, including the Chief Operating Officer, on the progress of remediation plans.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 63 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Raising concerns The adequacy of the Barclays Monitored enhancements to the As Whistleblowing Champion, the Groups arrangements to allow whistleblowing programme following Chair of the Committee presented his employees to raise concerns the independent review that was annual report on whistleblowing in confidence and anonymously commissioned by the Board in 2017. matters to the Board.
without fear of retaliation, Reviewed the examples of best The Committee continued to encourage and the outcomes of any practice in the FCAs Review of Firms and support the provision of training substantiated cases.
to colleagues and managers on Monitored whistleblowing metrics, whistleblowing issues, and received including case load and case ageing.
The Committee was pleased to note Monitored instances of retaliation that the volume of cases remains reports, and whether any instances proportionate to Barclays size had been substantiated.
Received a presentation from BIA The Committee was also pleased to following its audit of the Investigations and Whistleblowing team.
note that the recommendations arising from the independent review of the whistleblowing programme had been implemented in full, and had been subject to validation by the Global Compliance Assurance team.
Following the enhancements made, the Committee considered that the whistleblowing programme generally met with best practice as identified by the FCAs Review.
The Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 includes further details regarding the Barclays Groups whistleblowing procedures and controls.
Internal audit The performance of BIA and Scrutinised and agreed internal audit The Committee received semi-annual delivery of the internal audit plan, plans, methodology and deliverables thematic control reports from BIA including scope of work performed, for 2018. and a quarterly operational report the level of resources, and the during 2018.
Monitored BIAs progress on delivery methodology and coverage of against the Matters Requiring Attention The Committee observed that the the internal audit plan.
identified by the Fed, the issues arising issues arising from unsatisfactory from the PRAs horizontal review of the audits indicated that there was still function, and BIAs response to feedback work to do in embedding the required received as part of the independent level of control consciousness across external review commissioned by the Barclays Group and ensuring that the Committee.
control exceptions were highlighted clearly in management reporting.
Monitored delivery of the agreed audit plans, including assessing internal audit The Committee welcomed the progress resources and hiring levels, and any made by BIA in addressing the Matters impacts on the audit plan, and reviewing Requiring Attention identified by the the reasons for the postponement Fed, the issues arising from the PRAs of audits in greater depth.
horizontal review of the function, and Debated audit risk appetite and the recommendations made as part issue validation.
of the independent external review.
Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory The Committee confirmed that it audits, and monitored related was satisfied with the outcome of the remediation plans.
self-assessment of BIA performance, Approved the appointment of the Chief which evidenced that the function Internal Auditor for Barclays Bank UK generally conforms to the standards PLC and Barclays Bank PLC respectively.
set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
It further confirmed that it felt able to Discussed BIAs assessment of the rely on the work of BIA in discharging management control approach and its own responsibilities.
control environment in Barclays Bank UK PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and the functions.
Evaluated the outcomes from BIAs annual self-assessment.
64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken External audit The work and performance Met with key members of the KPMG The Committee approved the audit of KPMG.
audit team to discuss the 2018 audit plan and the main areas of focus.
plan and agree areas of focus.
Separate audit partners were assigned to lead the audits of Barclays Bank Assessed regular reports from KPMG UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC and on the progress of the 2018 audit and the scope of the audit was, therefore, any material accounting and control necessarily revised to reflect a legal issues identified.
Discussed KPMGs feedback on Barclays critical accounting estimates Read more about the Committees and judgements.
role in assessing the performance, effectiveness and independence of the Discussed KPMGs draft report on external auditor below.
Further details certain control areas and the control of the Committees consideration of environment ahead of the 2018 year end.
audit quality can be found in the Discussed the approach to KPMGs Governance in action section of this annual report to the PRA which will report on page 67. be issued following completion of the 2018 audit.
Considered the draft SOX control report and the draft audit opinion.
In addition, the Committee also covered the discussed and agreed revisions to the derivatives.
The Committee discussed both following matters: Barclays Group policy on the Provision the overall assessment of the review and the of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor areas for improvement in detail with KPMG, tracked the progress of specific work and regularly analysed reports from and noted the actions they had taken as being done to enhance Barclays financial management on the non-audit services regards the 2018 audit: the Committee also crime controls, including the functions provided to Barclays challenged KPMG as to whether any of the investigation capabilities, particularly findings might be relevant to areas which had in relation to prevention and detection evaluated and approved revisions to the not been subject to the AQR teams review.
The Committee also assessed the Barclays Group policy on Employment of In addition, the Committee received a detailed Group Money Laundering Officers annual Employees or Workers from the Statutory paper from KPMG outlining the work they report, which was also presented to the Auditor and ensured compliance with performed on the fair value of the derivatives Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank the policy by regularly assessing reports portfolio in 2017.
The Committee believes PLC audit committees from management detailing any that KPMG has taken appropriate action as appointments made assessed the status of the programme regards its 2018 audit.
Furthermore, having in place to ensure Barclays compliance was briefed by KPMG on critical accounting understood the nature of the AQR teams with client assets CASS regulatory judgements and estimates and internal findings and KPMGs work, particularly as requirements, including approving the controls over financial reporting regards to the fair value of the derivatives annual client assets audit report and assessed any potential threats to portfolio, the Committee does not believe the discussing the potential impact of structural independence that were self-identified findings affected the overall audit conclusions reform on client assets and reported by KPMG reached by KPMG in the 2017 audit.
evaluated the outcomes of the assessment met with KPMG to discuss the issues The Committee received from KPMG a note of the Committees performance and any impacting KPMG as a firm, some of which of the draft PCAOB findings and discussed areas of Committee performance that were the subject of significant adverse with KPMG both the findings and the needed to be enhanced press coverage proposed improvements to the audit that reviewed and updated its terms of reviewed the annual report on KPMG KPMG had implemented for the 2018 audit.
reference, recommending them to the issued by the FRCs Audit Quality Review The Committee noted that whilst the scope Board for approval.
AQR team for the two reviews was not the same, the External auditor PCAOB did also cover the fair value of financial received and discussed with the AQR team instruments and the impairment of loans and Following an external audit tender in 2015, the findings from their review of KPMGs KPMG was appointed as the Barclays Groups advances to customers.
As regards the 2017 audit of the Barclays Group financial statement audit, the PCAOB raised statutory auditor.
Michelle Hinchliffe of KPMG received a report from KPMG regarding is the Senior Statutory Auditor.
no comments on the impairment of loans the draft findings from the review by the and only one comment on the valuation Public Company Accounting Oversight Assessing external auditor effectiveness, of a minor part of the trading portfolio.
Board PCAOB of KPMGs 2017 audit objectivity and independence and As regards the audit of financial controls of the Barclays Group.
non-audit services required by Sarbanes-Oxley, the PCAOB noted The Committee is responsible for assessing The AQR team reviewed the main judgemental that, in their view, KPMG had not performed the effectiveness, objectivity and independence areas of KPMGs audit: the fair value of adequate assessments of certain management of KPMG.
This responsibility was discharged financial instruments including trading, review controls relating to loan impairment throughout the year at formal Committee designated at fair value and derivative financial and valuation models.
In this respect, both meetings, during private meetings with KPMG, instruments : the impairment of loans and management and KPMG have been working and through discussions with key executive advances to customers: litigation provisions: to ensure that such review controls are stakeholders.
In addition to the matters noted conduct provisions: and the IFRS 9 transition documented at a sufficiently granular level above, the Committee also: disclosures.
They identified improvements to meet audit and regulatory expectations.
approved the terms of the audit that, in their view, were required in these areas Again, having considered in detail the engagement letter and associated fees, and in their discussion with the Committee comments raised and KPMGs response, on behalf of the Board highlighted, in particular, their findings as the Committee believes that KPMG has related to KPMGs audit of the fair value of taken appropriate action as regards the home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 65 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Audit Committee report 2018 audit and that the nature of the references to ABSA Barclays Africa During 2018, with the exception of one matter, comments received from the PCAOB do not Group Limited BAGL, and its auditors all engagements where expected fees met or impact on the 2017 audit conclusions in Ernst & Young, were removed to reflect exceeded the above threshold were evaluated respect of either the audit of the financial the full deconsolidation of BAGL from by either the Committee Chair or the statements or internal financial controls.
a regulatory perspective Committee as a whole who, before confirming any approval, assured themselves that there the Policy was updated to reflect an FRC KPMGs performance, independence and was justifiable reason for engaging the Auditor staff guidance note entitled The Auditors objectivity during 2018 were also formally and that its independence and objectivity Provision of Restructuring Services to Public assessed at the beginning of 2019 by way of would not be threatened.
No requests to use Interest Entity Participants in Bank Lending a questionnaire completed by key stakeholders KPMG were declined by the Committee in or Bond Funded Syndicates across the Barclays Group, including the chairs 2018 2017: none.
On a quarterly basis, the of the Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays the 25,000 tax planning and tax advice Committee scrutinised details of individually Bank PLC audit committees.
The questionnaire services threshold was removed from approved and pre-approved services was designed to evaluate KPMGs audit allowable non-audit services, which means undertaken by KPMG in order to satisfy itself process and addressed matters such as the that all such services now require approval.
that they posed no risk to independence, quality of planning and communication, Tax advice to expatriate employees and either in isolation or on an aggregated basis.
technical knowledge, the level of scrutiny and training on the practice of tax law were challenge applied and KPMGs understanding added to the prohibited non-audit Two minor breaches of the Policy arose during the reporting period.
In both cases, KPMG of the business.
In addition, as in the prior services listing.
year, KPMG nominated a senior partner of the confirmed to the Committee that they did not The Policy was further updated at the consider their position of independence had audit team reporting to the Senior Statutory beginning of 2019 to align it with KPMGs Auditor to have specific responsibility for been compromised.
The Committee agreed update to its own internal policy on nonwith this assessment and action was taken ensuring audit quality.
The Committee audit services for FTSE 350 companies which therefore met with the partner concerned to address the breaches and to ensure they provides that the Auditor should only be do not recur.
without the Senior Statutory Auditor to engaged to supply non-audit services where receive a report on his assessment of audit those services are closely related to the audit.
For the purposes of the Policy, the Committee quality, bearing in mind the comments has determined that any pre-approved received from the AQR team and PCAOB The above changes were approved at a service of a value of under 50,000 is to and the responses thereto.
Barclays Group level by the Committee.
This be regarded as not material in terms of its is in accordance with European Union law Taking into account the results of all of impact on Barclays financial statements and and FRC guidance, pursuant to which audit the above, the Committee considered that has required the Group Financial Controller committees of Public Interest Entities such KPMG maintained their independence and to specifically review and confirm to the as Barclays PLC are required to approve objectivity, and that the audit process Committee that any pre-approved service non-audit services provided by their auditors was effective.
with a value of 50,000-100,000 may be to such entities, and subsidiary Public Interest regarded as such.
The Committee undertook Non-audit services Entities in the UK such as Barclays Bank UK a review of pre-approved services at its In order to safeguard the Auditors PLC and Barclays Bank PLC can rely on the meeting in December 2018 and satisfied itself independence and objectivity, the Barclays approval of non-audit services by the ultimate that such pre-approved services were not Group has in place a policy setting out the parents audit committee.
It should be noted material in the context of their impact on circumstances in which the Auditor may be that audit services, and the fee cap, will be the financial statements.
engaged to provide services other than those monitored by the relevant audit committee, covered by the Barclays Group audit.
The fees payable to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2018 amounted to 51m, of Barclays Group Policy on the Provision of Under the Policy the Committee has preServices by the Group Statutory Auditor which 11m 2017: 10m was payable in approved all allowable services for which respect of non-audit services.
A breakdown the Policy applies to all Barclays subsidiaries fees are less than 100,000.
However, all and other material entities over which Barclays of the fees payable to the Auditor for statutory proposed work, regardless of the fees, must audit and non-audit work can be found in has significant influence.
The core principle be sponsored by a senior executive and of the Policy is that non-audit services other Note 40.
Of the 11m of non-audit services recorded on a centralised online system, with provided by KPMG during 2018, the significant than those legally required to be carried out by a detailed explanation of the clear commercial the Barclays Groups Auditor should only be categories of engagement, i. e. services benefit arising from engaging the Auditor over performed by the Auditor in certain, controlled where the fees amounted to more than other potential service providers.
The Policy sets out those types 500,000, included: firm engagement partner must also confirm of services that are strictly prohibited and audit-related services: services in that the engagement has been approved in those that are allowable in principle.
Any connection with CASS audits while the accordance with the Auditors own internal service types that do not fall within either CASS audit fell within the Auditors scope ethical standards and does not pose any list are considered by the Committee Chair of services, the fees for such services did threat to the Auditors independence or on a case by case basis, supported by a risk not form part of the global fee arrangements objectivity.
All requests to engage the Auditor assessment provided by management.
and therefore required separate Committee are assessed by independent management approval pursuant to the Policy The Policy is reviewed on an annual basis before work can commence.
Requests for to ensure that it is fit for purpose, and that it allowable service types in respect of which the other attest and assurance services: reflects applicable rules and guidelines.
This fees are expected to meet or exceed the above ongoing attestation and assurance year, following the completion of structural threshold must be approved by the Chair of services for treasury and capital markets reform, the following material amendments the Committee before work is permitted to transactions to meet regulatory were made to the Policy: begin.
Services where the fees are expected requirements, including regular reporting to be 250,000 or higher must be approved obligations and verification reports.
by the Committee as a whole.
All expenses and disbursements must be included in the fees calculation.
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information As noted above, the Provision of Services Governance in action by the Group Statutory Auditor Policy was updated to clarify that the Barclays Group Audit quality should only engage the Auditor to supply Although BIA, as the Barclays Groups responsibility for ensuring audit quality non-audit services where those services are without the Senior Statutory Auditor in internal auditor, and KPMG, as the Barclays closely related to the audit.
Having reviewed Groups external auditor, have primary order to receive a report on his assessment of the non-audit services that have been audit quality.
KPMG provided the Committee responsibility for the quality of their provided by KPMG since their appointment respective audits, the Committee plays with a report regarding the draft findings as the Barclays Groups external auditor from the Public Company Accounting an important role in promoting and with effect from the financial year beginning supporting audit quality through its various Oversight Boards review of KPMGs 2017 1 January 2017, we believe that this change audit of Barclays, and the findings of the responsibilities as detailed in its terms will have limited impact on the Barclays of reference.
FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team Group.
For example, all of the non-audit review of KPMGs 2017 audit of Barclays were services provided by KPMG in 2018 fall within The Committee gains insight into the also shared with the Committee.
The AQR the new policy and would, therefore, have activities of BIA, and its effectiveness, in team monitors the quality of the audit work been permissible.
Of the 10m of non-audit three ways.
Firstly, BIA maintains a quality of statutory auditors and audit firms in the services provided by KPMG during 2017, KPMG assurance and improvement programme that UK that audit certain entities, including would have been prohibited from providing covers all aspects of BIAs activity across the banks such as Barclays.
They conduct services amounting to less than 300,000 Barclays Group and which is overseen by the reviews of individual audits, and focus on pursuant to the new policy.
In the event that any issues are the appropriateness of key audit judgements identified in relation to BIAs work for Barclays The Statutory Audit Services for Large made in reaching the audit opinion and the Bank UK PLC and or Barclays Bank PLC, such Companies Market Investigation Mandatory sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit issues will be reported to the relevant audit Use of Competitive Tender Processes and evidence obtained: reviews of firm-wide committee.
Secondly, the independent Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 procedures are wide-ranging in nature and Internal Audit Quality Assurance team An external audit tender was conducted in include an assessment of how the culture samples all of BIAs work on an annual basis 2015 and the decision was made to appoint within firms impacts on audit quality.
and presents its findings to the Committee.
KPMG as Barclays external auditor with Thirdly, the Committee commissions an The Committee believes that high quality effect from the 2017 financial year, with PwC external assessment of BIA at least once audit is the primary mechanism for resigning as the Barclays Groups external every five years with the last such review providing stakeholders with assurance that auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
being undertaken during the second half the financial statements give a true and Barclays is in compliance with the requirements of 2017.
To the extent that the Committee fair view of their Company and, therefore, of The Statutory Audit Services for Large is made aware of any development areas promotes market confidence in the Companies Market Investigation Mandatory or issues, it endeavours to monitor the Companys financial reports.
For these Use of Competitive Tender Processes and delivery of any remedial actions.
reasons, the Committee continues to be Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, an advocate of high-quality audit and keeps The Committee oversees the Groups which relates to the frequency and governance abreast of the debate as to whether audits, relationship with its external auditor and is of tenders for the appointment of the external and auditors, are fit for purpose by regularly responsible for reviewing the performance, auditor and the setting of a policy on the reviewing industry guidance from, for independence and objectivity of the external provision of non-audit services.
example, the FRC and the International auditor in order to decide whether to Organization of Securities Commissions.
Provided that KPMG continue to maintain recommend to the Barclays PLC Board The Committee provided information their independence and objectivity, and the a proposal for shareholders to reappoint in response to the request from the Committee remains satisfied with their the current external auditor.
As part of that Competition & Markets Authority for its performance, the Barclays Group has no review, which is organised at a Barclays review into competition in the UK audit intention of appointing an alternative external Group level, the views of the Barclays Bank market which will examine three main auditor before the end of the current required UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC audit areas: choice, resilience and incentives period of 10 years.
In addition, this year, and we look forward to reviewing the the Committee met with the nominated conclusions of that study.
senior partner on the audit team who has home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 67 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Nominations Committee report The Committee, alongside the Board, is very alive to the benefits of diversity in order to avoid group think and to ensure that the Board and senior management team more closely reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.
Dear Fellow Shareholders Continuing on the theme of succession, one Committee performance The performance of the Committee was 2018 saw the establishment of our new of the Committees key considerations is the corporate structure, and the embedding of the processes for executive succession.
During assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, an independent, external corporate governance newly constituted Barclays Bank UK PLC and the year, we closely monitored the status and Barclays Bank PLC boards comprising distinct progress of the Barclays Talent and Succession consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness review.
The results confirm that the Committee combinations of executive and non-executive strategy which is aimed at attracting and Directors.
Throughout this period of change, retaining the best talent for the Barclays Group is performing effectively, and that the role and responsibilities of the Committee are clear the Committee continued to consider regularly and provided management with guidance the composition of, and succession plans for, and input on the strategy, as appropriate.
Last years review noted that the Committee needed to be mindful the Barclays PLC Board in order to ensure the The Committee also reviewed diversity in the right balance of diversity, experience and skills talent pipeline and discussed ways in which of ensuring that all non-executive Directors received the same flow of information in to provide the strategic oversight needed to high-performing individuals within senior motivate colleagues and sustain our business management can be developed and nurtured relation to decisions and discussions by the Committee.
The Committee sought to address over the long term.
In this respect, we were in order to strengthen our succession pipeline.
pleased to appoint Mary Anne Citrino as this through the delivery of updates by me, The Committee was encouraged by Barclays as Chair of the Nominations Committee, a non-executive Director in July 2018, the ever increasing commitment to diversity.
Committee having followed its usual approach to the Board and outside of scheduled Board The Committee, alongside the Board, is very meetings, to the extent appropriate.
This of engaging an executive search firm and alive to the benefits of diversity at Board level conducting a rigorous search and selection years review notes that this is something and in senior management, both in terms of that now needs to be further built upon.
You can find out more about Mary gender, ethnicity and more broadly, in order Annes background, experience and skills More information on the 2018 review of Board, to avoid group think and to ensure that the Board Committee and individual Director in her biography on page 52.
We also look Board and the senior management team more forward to welcoming Nigel Higgins, my effectiveness, and progress made against closely reflect the diversity of the communities the findings of the 2017 review, can be found successor, as Chairman with effect from that they serve.
In light of the Hampton the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2019. on page 71 and 72.
Alexander and Parker Reviews, the Board Nigels appointment marks the culmination Diversity Policy and Committee terms of Looking ahead of an intensive recruitment process led by reference were reviewed in order to ensure While it is always a difficult choice to retire a sub-committee of the Board chaired by our that both documents reflect our commitment from a company as prestigious as Barclays, Senior Independent Director, Crawford Gillies, to identifying, attracting, retaining and I am delighted that the Board has appointed and is made with the full approval and support promoting the best talent, irrespective of the Nigel Higgins to succeed me as Chairman.
You can gender, ethnic background, religion or other I have every confidence that Nigel will be read more about Nigels recruitment and defining characteristic of any candidate.
The a superb steward of both the Board and appointment in the Governance in action Board Diversity Policy and the Committees the bank as Barclays continues to progress section of the Board report on page 72. terms of reference are available at following the substantial restructuring On 19 March 2018, we announced various home.
Board changes to reflect the post-ring-fencing In July 2016, Barclays was proud to become structure: one of the first signatories to HM Treasurys Sir Gerry Grimstone, who was Deputy Women in Finance Charter and remains Chairman and Senior Independent Director committed to its pledge to improve gender of Barclays PLC and Chair of the Barclays diversity within the financial services sector.
John McFarlane PLC Reputation Committee, moved instead Work has continued towards our target of Chair, Board Nominations Committee to become Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC.
33% female representation on the Board by 20 February 2019 He remains a non-executive Director of 2020, not least, with the appointment of Mary Barclays PLC Anne Citrino as a non-executive Director to the Board.
The Committee also reviewed the Sir Ian Cheshire was appointed Chairman of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He remains Barclays Groups progress towards building a diverse and inclusive workforce, including a non-executive Director of Barclays PLC reviewing updates on progress made across Crawford Gillies was appointed Senior the Barclays Group against the five global Independent Director of Barclays PLC pillars of Barclays Diversity and Inclusion Mary Francis was appointed Chair of strategy: gender, disability, LGBT, multicultural the Barclays PLC Reputation Committee.
Find out more about this in the People section on pages 93 to 98.
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information of the experience of Committee members evaluating the balance of skills, experience, Committee allocation of time % in their biographies on pages 51 and 52. independence, knowledge and diversity, on the Board 1 5 During 2018, the Committee met five times ensuring that both appointments and 2 and the chart shows how it allocated its time.
4 succession plans are based on merit and Attendance by members at Committee objective criteria and, within this context, meetings is shown below.
Committee meetings promoting diversity of gender, social were attended for the relevant agenda items and ethnic background, cognitive and by the Group Chief Executive, the Group 3 personal strengths HR Director and the Group Head of Talent.
The Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion agreeing the annual Board performance 2018 2017 also attended to the extent required.
evaluation process and considering 1 Corporate governance its effectiveness matters 13 8 Member Meetings attended eligible to attend ensuring that the Board has appropriate 2 Board and Board John McFarlane 5 5 corporate governance standards and practices Committee composition 41 45 Mike Ashley 5 5 3 Succession planning in place and revising these in order to ensure Tim Breedon 5 5 and talent 27 33 that they are consistent with best practice Sir Ian Cheshire 5 5 4 Board effectiveness 11 11 appointing Directors to, and removing Crawford Gillies 5 5 5 Other 8 6 Directors from, the boards of certain Sir Gerry Grimstone 5 5 significant subsidiaries of the Barclays Reuben Jeffery III 4 5 Group with the recommendation of the Committee composition and meetings relevant nominations committee, and the The Committee is composed solely of Committee role and responsibilities approval of the relevant board, where independent non-executive Directors.
The The Committee is responsible for: appropriate and agreeing appropriate members of the Committee are John McFarlane, supporting and advising the Board in policies and processes to apply to the Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Sir Ian Cheshire, ensuring that it is comprised of individuals governance of those subsidiaries.
Crawford Gillies, Sir Gerry Grimstone, and who are best able to discharge the duties Reuben Jeffery III.
You can find more details and responsibilities of Directors The Committees terms of reference are available at home.
barclays corporategovernance The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Board and The membership of the Board, Reviewed the Board skills matrix The Committee prepared an appropriate Board Committee and the current and future and discussed the key skills and individual specification for an additional composition composition of the Board and experience needed on the Board non-executive Director and shared it with its Committees.
in the context of future strategic executive search firm, Egon Zehnder.
Egon direction and structural reform, Zehnder was advised that, subject always including any areas requiring to applying rigorous, objective criteria, in strengthening from a skills and the context of Barclays strategic direction succession perspective.
and the diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal Identified the requirement strengths, there was a preference for female for additional non-executive candidates in light of the Boards diversity Directors with attributes including target of having 33% female representation investment banking experience, on the Board by 2020.
Egon Zehnder retail banking experience and also prepared a long-list of candidates including digital technology experience.
references and CVs, which was reviewed Continued the search for an by the Committee.
A shortlist was prepared, additional female non-executive and the candidates were interviewed.
Mary Director with the relevant skill set.
Anne Citrino was identified as the preferred Played an important role in the candidate, and was appointed to the Board search for the Chairmans on 25 July 2018. successor.
The Committee continues its search for an Reviewed the membership, size additional female non-executive Director and composition of the Board preferably with banking experience and Committees.
digital technology experience to further promote diversity of gender on the Board.
Any appointment made will be based on merit and, as mentioned above, objective criteria.
Board composition The composition of the Barclays Finalised the establishment The Committee finalised the appointments of Barclays Bank Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank to the boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC of the boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays PLC boards.
UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and Barclays Bank PLC ahead of the Bank PLC in and discussed the suitability of execution of structural reform.
This preparation for the potential candidates identified included the appointment of Chairs to these legal entity stand to join those boards.
Boards in Sir Ian Cheshire and Sir Gerry up on 1 April 2018 Grimstone respectively, and taking the under the Structural opportunity to appoint a dedicated Senior Reform Programme Independent Director within Barclays PLC in Crawford Gillies.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 69 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Nominations Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Executive Succession planning and Reviewed the progress being The Committee reviewed the succession succession planning talent management at the made against Barclays Talent pipeline of the Barclays Group Executive and talent Barclays Group Executive and Succession strategy, including Committee and their direct reports.
monitoring diversity within the Committee was encouraged that all Barclays talent pipeline.
Group Executive Committee roles had at least one female successor, and that 33% Discussed updates from the of the total successors identified were Group HR Director on the Barclays female.
Barclays is committed to achieving Group Executive Committee 33% female representation among the succession plans, including Barclays Group Executive Committee and assessing emergency cover, the their direct reports by 2020, and as at existing talent pipeline and any year-end 2018 we are reporting 28% female potential gaps.
Considered individuals identified as potential Barclays Group The Committee also discussed the Executive Committee successors continued use of ex officio posts to both and discussed next steps for the Barclays Group Executive Committee their development.
and business executive committees to give senior individuals more exposure to Barclays Assessed the succession plans Group matters.
This serves to not only for the most critical business broaden the scope of perspectives within unit and functional roles, and the relevant committee but also to develop discussed how to develop the those individuals thus ensuring a healthy high-performing individuals pool of potential candidates in the identified.
Diversity and Ensuring Barclays attracts Reviewed the Barclays Groups The Committee received regular updates Inclusion and retains the best talent.
progress towards continuing from the Global Head of Diversity and to build a diverse and inclusive Inclusion on progress made across the firm workforce.
against the five global pillars of Barclays Diversity and Inclusion strategy: Gender, Disability, LGBT, Multicultural and Multigenerational.
Whilst acknowledging that there is more to do, the Committee was pleased with the progress that had been made.
Further detail on this progress can be found above under Board and Board Committee Composition and in the People section on pages 93 to 98.
In addition, the Committee also covered the The Committee frequently considers a skills to other details such as expected time following matters: matrix for the Board, which identifies the core commitment, will be included in an individual competencies, skills, diversity and experience specification.
The Board and the Committee considered the results of, and agreed the required for the Board to deliver its strategic remain mindful of the targets set by the action plan in respect of, the 2017 Board aims and govern the Barclays Group effectively.
Hampton Alexander Review and the Parker effectiveness review and the process for Certain attributes identified in the skills matrix Review respectively for FTSE 100 companies the 2018 Board and Board Committee to have a minimum of 33% female have a target weighting attached to them and effectiveness review these are regularly updated to reflect the representation on their board by 2020 and monitored Directors conflicts of interests, at least one person of colour on their board needs of the Barclays Group.
The Committee and Directors induction and training reviews the skills matrix when considering a by 2021.
The Committee considers CVs and evaluated the outcomes of the assessment references for potential candidates.
Any potential new appointment to the Board, as of the Committees performance and any well as reviewing the current and expected candidates who are shortlisted will be areas of Committee performance that interviewed by members of the Committee Board and Board Committee composition.
needed to be enhanced This helps to determine a timeline for and, if applicable, key stakeholders and Barclays regulators may be asked to provide reviewed the Committees terms of proposed appointments to the Board.
feedback on the proposed appointment.
reference, recommending them to the To the extent that the Nominations The Board is updated on the progress of the Board for approval.
Committee identifies any gaps in the recruitment and interview process, and any Appointment and re-election of Directors Boards profile which may be a result feedback from the interviews is provided of the forthcoming retirement of a Director, Board and Board Committee composition to the Board alongside a recommendation is a standing item for consideration at or in response to changing market needs for appointment.
that information is used to inform the search each Committee meeting.
This includes the consideration of potential new nonfor a new Director or Directors and the specific During 2018, executive search firms Egon skills that are required will be identified, for Zehnder and Spencer Stuart were instructed executive Director appointments, both in respect of planned succession for known example, an individual with international to assist with the search for a new female experience, or recent history serving on a non-executive Director and new Chairman, retirements and as a result of the ongoing review of the skills and experience needed particular board committee.
Neither firm has any other Expectations contains the key competencies, connection to Barclays, other than to provide on the Board in order for it to continue to operate effectively.
skills and experience expected of nonrecruitment services.
Open advertising for executive Directors, and these, in addition Board positions was not used this year, 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information as the Committee believes that targeted Mike Ashleys re-election as a non-executive connection to the Barclays Group, was once recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting Director following the appointment of again chosen to facilitate the effectiveness for such positions.
Both of the firms used for KPMG as the Barclays Groups Auditor.
review on the basis that it offered not only non-executive Director recruitment have The Committee confirms that although the relevant skills but also prior knowledge signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct Mike was Chair of the Audit Committee at of the Board and thus the ability to provide for Executive Search Firms, which includes the relevant time, since he is a former KPMG more insightful feedback.
Consistent with measures designed to improve gender partner he had no involvement in the audit previous years, IBE carried out interviews diversity on boards.
tender process, the recommendation to the with the Directors to obtain feedback on the Board nor the decision to appoint KPMG as effectiveness of the Board throughout 2018, In 2018, Barclays announced the appointment the Barclays Groups Auditor.
The audit and also attended several Board and Board of Mary Anne Citrino as a non-executive tender process was led by Tim Breedon.
Although not required Director with effect from 25 July 2018. by The Code, the boards of each of Barclays Tim Breedon has been a Director for over Mary Anne has extensive board-level Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have also six years and, accordingly, his independence experience and brings strong commercial elected to engage IBE to evaluate them, in was subjected to a more rigorous review acumen, together with investment banking order to enhance their effectiveness and pursuant to the recommendations of experience see page 52 for details of ensure that they are operating optimally.
This The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
Mary Annes background, experience and will, ultimately, provide the Barclays Group Having considered Tims interests outside skills.
In addition, Barclays announced the with a unique perspective as to the interaction of the Barclays Group and other relationships appointment of Nigel Higgins as John of the boards and board committees of these which could materially affect his ability McFarlanes successor.
For more details companies, and the fitness for purpose of to exercise independent judgement, the about Nigels recruitment and appointment, our new governance framework.
Committee concluded that there were no please refer to the Governance in action circumstances which would impact upon IBE issued their final report to the Board section on page 72.
Tims ability to act in the best interests in December 2018 on the findings of the The Directors in office at the end of 2018 of Barclays PLC.
The Committee remains effectiveness review.
In addition, the Chairman were subject to an effectiveness review, as satisfied that the length of Tims tenure was provided with a report and feedback on described below, which considered, among has no impact on his level of independence, the performance of each of the Directors, other things, what specific contribution they or the effectiveness of his contributions and the Senior Independent Director received made to the Company.
Based on the results a report on the Chairman.
In light of the recommendations set out of this review, the Board accepted the view in The UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, of the Committee that each Director proposed Following consideration of the findings Barclays PLC introduced a new procedure, for election or re-election continues to be of the 2018 Board and Board Committee with effect from 1 January 2019, requiring effective, and contributes to the Companys effectiveness reviews, the Directors remain all Directors to request pre-clearance prior long-term sustainable success.
Having served satisfied that the Board and each of the Board to taking on any additional commitments, on the Board for nine years, Reuben Jeffery III Committees are operating effectively.
including but not limited to directorships, and and Dambisa Moyo will both retire from the 2017 findings of the Board effectiveness to indicate in the clearance request the likely Board at this years AGM and will not, review and actions taken in 2018 time commitment involved.
The Company therefore, be standing for re-election.
Key findings of the 2017 Board effectiveness Secretary maintains a record of each review, which was also facilitated by IBE, were The Committee noted certain stakeholder Directors commitments.
This new procedure concerns with respect to the following that improving business performance would will enable the Board to track individual need to be a particular focus for 2018 and Directors proposed re-election at last Directors commitments in order to satisfy years AGM: that structural reform particularly the itself that no Director is over-committed.
need for clear accountability and delineated Sir Ian Cheshires time commitments.
With regard to new Director appointments, responsibilities in the new structure between Since Sir Ians appointment in 2017, his all potential candidates are asked to disclose the individual boards and board committees time commitments have not been an issue.
their significant commitments, and to give was regarded as a major challenge.
Sir Ian has been available as and when an indication of the time spent on those required by the Barclays Group, and he commitments.
This information is taken into Following completion of structural reform, attended 100% of scheduled and additional account by the Committee when considering and the resolution of a number of significant Board meetings in 2018 some of which proposed appointments on the basis that all legacy litigation and conduct matters, the were often called at short notice.
He is Directors are expected to allocate sufficient executive team has been able to apply even an effective Barclays PLC non-executive time to their role on the Board in order to greater focus to improving the performance Director.
Subsequent to the year end, discharge their responsibilities effectively.
of the business in the course of 2018 and has Sir Ians role as Chairman of Debenhams Plc done so effectively.
In relation to the second Review of Board, Board Committee and came to an end.
finding, and as noted earlier, a review of the individual Director effectiveness governance processes across the Barclays Crawford Gillies and the appointment of Process Group was undertaken in order to ensure the our former auditor, PwC, as external adviser In recent years, the Board has assessed effective operation of each of the boards and to the Remuneration Committee.
Prior to its effectiveness, and that of the Board the respective board committees.
In order the appointment of KPMG as the Barclays Committees and the individual Directors, to streamline governance processes, where Groups external auditor on 31 March 2017 annually in a process facilitated by an appropriate, and clarify relationships between formally approved at the 2017 AGM in independent third party.
This has been driven and among management and Barclays PLC, May 2017, PwC was the Barclays Groups by the Boards belief that an effective Board as well as the individual boards and their external auditor.
PwC was subsequently is key to the delivery of a companys strategy, respective committees, the Board has agreed appointed as the independent adviser to the and that an objective, external perspective a new set of governance operating procedures Remuneration Committee in October 2017, helps to identify what is working well and and protocols which are detailed in a following a robust tender process.
The PwC priorities for improvement, and promotes Corporate Governance Operating Manual team providing advice to the Committee is open discussion, resulting in a more effective the Manual.
The Manual is intended to different to the past audit team, and the Board.
A full external review of the Barclays promote efficient, effective and cohesive Committee is satisfied that the advice PLC Board, Board Committees and individual governance across the respective boards and provided is independent and objective.
Directors was carried out during Q4 of 2018. board committees, and has been approved Independent Board Evaluation IBE, and adopted and is in the process of being which is an independent, external corporate further embedded.
governance consultancy with no other home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 71 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Nominations Committee report 2018 Board effectiveness review Governance in action Feedback from the 2018 Board effectiveness review, facilitated by IBE, included that the Recruiting and appointing a new Chairman execution of structural reform had gone well, As a result of John McFarlanes wish to serve reduced.
The Nominations Committee and financial results were encouraging and legacy the Board were both provided with regular for a maximum of four years on the Barclays issues were being resolved satisfactorily.
PLC Board, and his anticipated retirement updates on the status of the search.
Board members commented that the in 2019, Barclays PLC needed to identify Board was well supported, and papers and Recruitment and recruit a new Chairman.
Whilst the presentations had improved, and Directors Following the initial interview process, Nigel Nominations Committee would normally induction was strong.
The review yielded Higgins emerged as the preferred candidate lead the process for the identification a number of recommendations, a high level on the basis of: his extensive experience in, and recommendation of the Chairmans summary of which is set out below.
The Board and understanding of, banking and financial successor, given the importance of the role intends to take action to address each of these services, gained through a 36-year career at of Chairman, the Board was keen to involve recommendations during the course of 2019.
Rothschild: his strong track record in leading all of the non-executive Directors in the and chairing a range of organisations, and Recommendations: recruitment process, rather than just those in acting as a strategic adviser to multiple The Board is large relative to peers and non-executive Directors who were members major corporations and Governments the whole Board should be engaged of the Nominations Committee.
The Board internationally: and his wealth of experience in considering how the Board might be asked the Senior Independent Director, in the operation of a financial services reduced in size to a more manageable level Crawford Gillies, to convene a group of group, in building teams and culture on whilst having careful regard to the Board non-executive Directors the Chairmans an international scale, and in growing skills matrix and relevant role profiles, Appointment Oversight Committee businesses.
He also demonstrated the strong to diversity and to succession planning.
CAOC to lead the search process for personal qualities and the understanding the Chairmans successor, and to identify The Board should ensure that the of UK corporate governance required to be and recommend one or more candidates Companys purpose and values are fully Chairman of Barclays PLC, including the for consideration by the Chairmans aligned with its culture and that all stature, gravitas, resilience and willingness Appointment Committee CAC.
The CAOC, Directors lead by example and promote to challenge management and the rest of led by Crawford, comprised Tim Breedon, the desired culture.
the Board, as and when required.
Mary Francis, and Reuben Jeffery III.
The Enhanced training for Board members Having confirmed his interest in the role, CAC, also chaired by Crawford, comprised and senior executives on UK corporate all of the non-executive Directors, apart Nigel undertook a series of further governance, in particular for those with interviews and met with each of Crawford, from the Chairman himself.
The CAC was limited UK plc experience, would be responsible for considering the candidate or Tim, Mary, Reuben and the Group Chief helpful, as would refresher training sessions Executive.
As part of the process, the candidates nominated by the CAOC, and for and more opportunities for site visits.
nominating and recommending a candidate Remuneration Committee met to consider To enable the Board to spend more time and approve the financial terms of the for consideration and approval in principle on longer-term and strategic issues, a short by the Board, subject both to the relevant letter of appointment to be entered into by set of annual objectives setting out what Barclays PLC and Nigel.
The Board held an candidate being approved by the PRA and the Board and Board Committees need to the FCA, and terms of appointment being additional meeting to specifically discuss achieve would help to bring further focus the proposed appointment of Nigel as agreed between the candidate and on key issues in each forum, and will result Barclays PLC.
Chairman, and to allow Directors to share in papers and meetings being more effective their feedback, and the feedback from Process in terms of length and duration, respectively.
The Board It was agreed that the main candidate granted full authority to the Nominations The 2018 Board effectiveness review attributes included excellent chairing skills, Committee to finalise and agree Nigels considered diversity when assessing the sufficient financial services experience such terms of appointment, and to undertake any effectiveness of the Board.
that the individual could hit the ground further necessary actions required in respect running, international exposure, experience Board Committee effectiveness of his appointment.
Ultimately, Nigels of UK corporate governance, the ability The 2018 Board Committee effectiveness appointment was approved by the Board and to think strategically, and willingness to review was carried out by IBE.
It was noted announced on 2 November 2018.
With these skills that this was the first review post-structural join the Board as a non-executive Director and attributes in mind, Spencer Stuart, an reform.
The process involved both interviews of Barclays PLC on 1 March 2019 and external search consultant, was engaged with the Board Committee members and subject to his appointment by shareholders, to support the search and selection process.
completion of a questionnaire, following will succeed John McFarlane as Chairman which an effectiveness review report of Search with effect from the conclusion of this the findings was provided to the Board Spencer Stuart conducted a rigorous years AGM.
Chairman and each Board Committee Chair.
global search and identified 160 potential The conclusion of the Board Committee candidates.
Over time, and having sought effectiveness review is that the Board the views of the Directors including Committees are working effectively.
You can John McFarlane on the preferred type read more about the findings for each Board of candidate for the role, the long list was Committee within each Board Committee Chairs letter.
72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Reputation Committee report The Committee welcomed the launch of Barclays new Purpose,   to seize their opportunities.
Dear Fellow Shareholders Oversight of conduct across the organisation Committee also encouraged management in is an essential part of our work.
Barclays has its drive to identify and control reputational This is my first report to you as Chair of the Board Reputation Committee.
I took over from a strong framework of conduct risk controls, risk as clearly as it does conduct risk.
We focused on preventing harm to customers approved a new reputation risk framework Sir Gerry Grimstone on 1 April 2018, when he was appointed Chair of Barclays Bank PLC.
or markets, or any form of financial crime.
The Committee received regular reports on I would like to thank Sir Gerry for all he did With important changes in the structure of during his two years as Chair of the Committee.
compliance with this framework from the the Barclays Group in 2018, the Committee Chief Compliance Officer and the heads of We welcomed Mike Turner to the Committee reviewed the governance framework for on 11 January 2018. the Financial Crime team, Human Resources, oversight of conduct and reputation across Risk and Internal Audit.
We reviewed at The Committee supports the Board in the organisation.
We were pleased that the each meeting data from the Conduct and Group Chief Executive agreed to attend our delivering its vision of Barclays Purpose, Complaints Dashboards and undertook Culture and Values, in reviewing the meetings regularly at my invitation, so that we deep dives into actual or potential problem continue to focus on strong leadership of the management of conduct and reputation risk, areas.
Despite disappointments, such as the and in overseeing how Barclays meets its culture and conduct of the Group as a whole.
problems arising with the introduction of We have established effective relationships corporate and societal obligations.
We do our online investment service, Smart Investor, this through challenging the leaders of the with the boards and committees of Barclays we welcomed the evidence of strengthening Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
We business at all levels, by examining data and controls and positive trends in conduct indicators, and through deep dives into strengthened our interactions with the breaches and disciplinary cases across Risk Committee: it was particularly valuable specific areas of the bank.
to share the results of Strategic Risk In 2018 the Committee encouraged Assessments by the operational risk team, Following the successful introduction of management to ensure that its objectives for the dashboards over the past two years, with recommendations on improving the culture and standards of conduct were clearly product risk review and financial crime the Committee agreed that they should be understood and embedded in each part of the developed further so that cultural and conduct control processes.
We welcomed the launch of Barclays close relationship with the Remuneration indicators are brought more clearly together, new Purpose, which emphasises that our are well suited to each individual business Committee, since performance incentives financial services play an essential role in are integral to conduct and culture.
entity, and are sufficiently forward looking.
enabling individuals and businesses to seize Barclays UK, Barclays International, and their opportunities.
The Purpose is underpinned Committee performance Barclays Execution Services have all been The performance of the Committee was by the Values of the organisation: respect, contributing to the review, and the revised integrity, service, excellence and stewardship.
assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, Culture and Conduct dashboards will be an an independent, external corporate governance At each of our meetings we reviewed the important underpin to our work in 2019. consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness Culture Dashboard, which provides data As our shareholders will know, Barclays has review.
The results confirm that the Committee on how far the Values are embedded in the a strong and long-standing commitment is operating effectively, and note that it is organisations actual behaviours and actions.
to managing the environmental and social thorough in its approach.
Last years review The results showed a sustained and positive impacts of our business, recognising that suggested that further consideration needed trend.
The annual survey by the Banking our success is closely linked to that of the to be given to the continued oversight of Standards Board BSB of the culture in 26 communities in which we live and work.
Conduct and Reputation Risk matters member banks provides an important external A recurring topic in our discussions has been post-structural reform.
This is something that lens to complement our internal data.
At our climate change and the challenges for is being kept under review by the Committee, December 2018 meeting we discussed the business in balancing the need to maintain and we are considering inviting more business results of their latest survey with Dame Colette the supply of energy to support economic heads to present their views to the Committee Bowe and Alison Cottrell, Chair and CEO of growth and prosperity while also meeting in addition to the presentations from function the BSB.
We were encouraged to hear that the goals of the Paris Accord.
In 2018 we heads we currently receive.
You can read more colleagues described Barclays as innovative and challenged and discussed with management about the outcomes of the review of Board, were positive about our initiatives to strengthen Barclays approach to financing businesses Board Committee and individual Director well-being and gender diversity.
The Committee which operate in sectors that are sensitive effectiveness on page 71. agreed with the BSBs comments on areas of because of their relative carbon intensity or focus which were similar for Barclays peers local environmental impact.
This has resulted including the need for sensitive management in the publication of a policy statement on our of changes associated with new technology approach to energy and climate change, as and innovation, reducing organisation well as statements on World Heritage Sites bureaucracy and improving employee and Ramsar Wetlands, all of which can be working environments.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 73 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Reputation Committee report Looking ahead Committee composition and meetings Committee role and responsibilities Finally, I would like to record my thanks The Committee is composed solely of The Committee is responsible for: to the Committee members, Group Chief independent non-executive Directors.
The supporting the Board in promoting its Compliance Officer, Laura Padovani, and wider members of the Committee are Mary Francis, collective vision of Barclays Purpose, senior management for their continued hard Mike Ashley, Dambisa Moyo, and Mike Turner.
Values, Culture and Behaviours work.
In 2019, the Committee looks forward Mike Turner joined the Board on 1 January reviewing, on behalf of the Board, to continuing its support of the Board in 2018 and became a member of the Committee the management of Conduct and promoting its vision of Barclays Purpose, with effect from 11 January 2018.
Sir Gerry Reputation Risk Values, Culture and Behaviours and of Grimstone left the Committee on 1 April 2018 overseeing Barclays conduct in relation management in embedding the right Culture when he became Chair of Barclays Bank PLC.
to its corporate and societal obligations, and Conduct across the Barclays Group, and You can find more details of the experience including setting the guidance, direction driving down Conduct and Reputation Risk.
of Committee members in their biographies and policies for Barclays approach to on pages 51 and 52. customer and regulatory matters and The Committee held five scheduled meetings Barclays Citizenship Strategy, including during 2018 and the chart shows how it advising the Board and management allocated its time.
Attendance by members on these matters at Committee meetings is shown below.
Mary Francis safeguarding the independence of and Committee meetings were attended by Chair, Board Reputation Committee overseeing the performance of Barclays representatives from management, including 20 February 2019 Compliance function, including the the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief performance of the Group Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Compliance Officer.
Group Chief Risk Officer, Group General Counsel, Group Chief of Staff, Group HR Committee allocation of time % The Committees terms of reference are available Director and the Group Head of Corporate at home.
barclays corporategovernance 1 Relations, as well as representatives from 5 the businesses and other functions.
The lead audit partner of KPMG the Barclays Groups 4 external auditor attended all Committee meetings in 2018 from January to July this was Guy Bainbridge: from August onwards 3 2 this was Michelle Hinchliffe.
Representatives from the BSB also attended two meetings.
2018 2017 Member Meetings attended eligible to attend 1 Conduct and compliance 41 36 Mary Francis 5 5 2 Culture 19 20 Mike Ashley 5 5 3 Reputation risk 16 14 Sir Gerry Grimstone to 1 April 2018 2 2 4 Customer satisfaction 13 14 Dambisa Moyo 5 5 5 Citizenship 11 16 Mike Turner 5 5 Including one combined meeting of the Risk Committee and the Reputation Committee.
The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.
Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct risk Conducting robust reviews of Discussed updates from Management was engaged in thorough any current and emerging risks management on conduct risk and discussion and challenge on the conduct arising from the inappropriate considered performance against risk dashboard, and alignment with the provision of financial services key conduct risk indicators, and Culture Dashboard.
the status of initiatives in place The Committee was particularly pleased to address those risks and further with the level of conduct risk insight strengthen the culture of received from the use of data analytic the business.
tools and from the deep dive sessions.
Requested and considered deep The Committee benefited from the dive analyses on conduct risk, presentation of material conduct structured including on progress in scenario assessments, described in the developing intelligence-led Governance in action section of this report initiatives to combat fraud.
Received reports on internal audit activities relating to The Committee challenged management conduct, including details of any to align analysis and control of conduct risk unsatisfactory audit reports and with that of other Principal Risks, such as remediation steps identified.
Market and Credit Risk, and approved the revised Conduct Risk Management Received updates on the Framework and the 2019 Annual implementation of the revised Code Compliance Plan.
of Conduct, The Barclays Way.
Reviewed the Compliance functions annual compliance plan.
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Cultural progress Reviewing managements Debated culture dashboards Following the Committees challenge to progress in embedding and the progress being made improve the use of the Culture Dashboard, a values-based culture across to embed cultural change across it was satisfied with managements progress the organisation.
to evolve and align the culture dashboards with the conduct dashboards Received regular updates on colleague engagement metrics Through consideration of the Your View and the results of employee results in each quarter, the Committee Your View surveys.
was encouraged by the high colleague Received reports on internal audit engagement scores achieved throughout activities relating to culture.
2018 and especially in response to launch of the new Purpose, and by improvements Considered and discussed with made to the perception of colleagues representatives of the Banking working environments, and in reducing Standards Board the results bureaucracy.
The Committee appreciated of their 2017 and 2018 Annual managements acknowledgement that Reviews of Barclays and further improvement is still required in these received periodic updates from areas and of the need to continue to embed management detailing follow and instil the desired culture Group-wide, up against the 2017 key findings.
and was supportive of the work undertaken Received information on by the Group Chief Executive to continue managements initiatives to to drive the desired culture across the improve colleague well-being Barclays Group.
and resilience, including actively encouraging employees to work The Committee regularly discussed the importance of an open and honest culture dynamically and bolstering the supportive environment in which in which colleagues feel able to speak up and raise concerns.
colleagues feel able to talk about the impacts of stress and mental health concerns.
Reputation and Ensuring that Reputation risks Reviewed at each meeting The Committee achieved greater oversight brand and issues are identified and key significant and emerging from enhanced Reputation risk reports, and managed appropriately.
Reputation risks facing Barclays, minutes of meetings of Risk Committees receiving specific information on of major subsidiaries.
business action to address those The Committee held significant discussion issues and the outcomes of on and challenged management to, horizon scanning.
enhance the Reputation Risk framework Regularly evaluated the measures to better align it to other Principal Risks being taken to understand external Frameworks, and approved the refreshed perceptions of the Bank, including Reputation Risk Management Framework.
Considered whether the process for identifying, managing and overseeing Reputation risk was functioning effectively.
Reviewed the refreshed Reputation Risk Management Framework.
Customer Ensuring fair outcomes for Received bi-annual updates The Committee was pleased to see satisfaction customers by monitoring on complaints and challenged a general downward trend excluding PPI complaints volumes, the the performance against in the overall number of complaints standard and quality of key indicators.
received by Barclays during 2018. complaints handling processes, Considered the quality of the Management was challenged to make, root cause analysis of processes in place to address and and made, steady progress in refining complaints, and other relevant resolve customer complaints.
and aligning complaints management and metrics.
Monitored trends in the reporting and the Committee noted that underlying causes of complaints and that further improvement was required.
and considered forward looking analysis to identify events both industry-wide and Barclaysspecific which could influence the volume and timings of complaints.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 75 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Reputation Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Environmentaland Monitoring progress against Received and considered the The Committee was pleased with the social matters, Barclays Citizenship plan and bi-annual summary Citizenship strong successes created by Shared Growth including Citizenship considering and approving the dashboards, assessing status Ambition 2016-2018 and it approved approach to future Citizenship updates on the Shared Growth managements approach to evolving strategy.
Overseeing Barclays Ambition as the plan drew to Barclays Citizenship strategy for 2019, and commitment to managing an end.
supported the extension of our community its impact on broader society, investment initiatives LifeSkills, Connect Reviewed Barclays ratings including conduct in relation with Work and Unreasonable Impact and and relative peer ranking in to corporate and societal ensuring that our public commitments external ESG benchmarks and obligations.
tracked external perceptions on Citizenship through stakeholder The Committee recognised the need for and media analysis.
greater clarity in Barclays public social Reviewed updates at each meeting and environmental commitments and on reputation risk considerations challenged management to assess and of sensitive sector engagement.
improve communication on Barclays positioning.
The Committee approved the policy statements on Coal, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, published in April 2018 and the comprehensive Energy and Climate Change Statement published in January 2019.
You can read more about our approach to ESG, Citizenship and our Shared Growth Ambition on pages 22 to 25 of the Strategic Report, with further detail in our Environmental Social Governance report.
In addition, the Committee also covered the Governanceinaction following matters: received and reviewed minutes of Barclays Structured Scenario Assessments Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Risk Structured Scenario Assessments SSAs Operational Risk: Conduct Capital Committee meetings were developed by the Barclays Group Allocation.
received a report on managements annual Operational Risk Team.
They use scenario Retail Mis-selling.
review of the effectiveness of compliance analysis to explore the risks in extreme but Financial Crime.
with the Volcker Rule restrictions on plausible situations.
The results provide proprietary trading and certain fund the opportunity to understand, assess and The Committee gained valuable insights investments by banks operating in the US manage tail risk as well as contributing to from these presentations on the drivers received a report from management calculations of capital requirements and risk of past cases of misconduct in the banking on Barclays Swap Dealer Annual tolerance across the Barclays Group.
The sector, and ways of strengthening controls Compliance Report SSAs covering operational risk highlight that to guard against extreme risks in the future, instances of misconduct especially arising for instance through enhanced product evaluated the outcomes of the assessment from mistreatment of customers and review processes.
It is very supportive of the of the Committees performance and any markets, and financial crime are among use of SSAs by the business, and the level areas of Committee performance that the most significant tail risks facing most of technical insight of conduct-related risks needed to be enhanced banks today.
they bring to the Committee.
They provide reviewed and updated its terms of an opportunity for the Committee to reference, recommending them to the The Committee has had sight of all prescribed independently challenge and explore the Board for approval.
scenario topics used in the SSAs, and it topics, methodology and results.
The requested presentations on a number of Committee will continue to receive You can read more about Barclays risk those which are conduct-focused.
At its presentations on the material conductmanagement on pages 129 to 148, and in our meetings in June, October, and December, Pillar 3 Report, which is available online at related SSAs during 2019. the Committee received presentations on: barclays.
com annualreport 76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Risk Committee report One of the key roles of the Committee is to review and challenge the risk appetite of the bank: its ability to earn an appropriate return while being able to withstand shocks.
Dear Fellow Shareholders encouraged management to maintain security programme.
This work, which is a high level of vigilance.
In addition, based scheduled to complete by 2019, includes During 2018, the Committee continued to pay careful attention to the potential impact of on concerns of a US economic slowdown a range of actions designed to enable and wider global trade shocks affecting global more accurate prediction of cyberattacks macro-economic developments and market volatility on the risk profile of the bank.
As growth, the Committee also reviewed with and increase the speed of detection of management the Barclays Groups Leveraged cyber events.
in 2017, these issues remain challenging and we continue to work with management to Finance portfolio exposure, which was split One of the key roles of the Committee is between direct portfolio holds and indirect position the bank conservatively to deal with to recommend to the Board the overall risk political and economic uncertainty.
In terms of consumer appetite of the bank: its ability to earn an credit, debt levels had continued to rise the Committee has closely examined the appropriate return while being able to impact of uncertainty stemming from the both in the UK and US.
However, a steady withstand shocks in the market and economic transition to a higher quality book together process of UK withdrawal from the European environment.
In this context, as well as Union EU, as well as the broader global with managements conservative approach reviewing internal stress tests, the Committee to lending continued the good progress political and economic landscape.
In addition, monitors closely the assessment of Barclays it has reviewed the operational risk profile of previous years to strengthen the Barclays PLCs performance under a variety of Groups credit risk profile across the consumer of the bank, and its resilience to internal and regulatory stress tests including those external threats.
Themes that the committee portfolio.
This continued focus on book conducted by the US Federal Reserve CCAR quality is evidenced by a significant reduction evaluated in 2018 included UK corporate and the Bank of England BoE in each case and consumer credit risk, in particular in the in impairment for the year.
meeting the appropriate minimum capital context of uncertainty created as a result of In relation to risk-taking in the Investment requirments and the biennial European the possibility of a disorderly UK withdrawal Banking Authority EBA stress test.
Bank, the Committee monitored the progress from the EU in this context the Committee across a number of initiatives, and noted that is also monitoring operational resilience in Given the high level of reliance on model growth had been appropriately controlled outputs in supporting our stress tests, the relation to leaving the EU without reaching an in line with stated intentions, and adequate agreement, considering issues of operational Committee continued to evaluate progress controls through risk frameworks and made in the improvement of model risk and broader business continuity.
Other key second-line oversight were in place.
risks that the committee is monitoring with management in the Barclays Group.
While During the year, the Committee continued recognising that there is further work to do, potential for wider contagion include those related to increased market volatility and the to monitor the progress being made by the Committee is pleased that substantial management in the identification, assessment progress was made through 2018 as impact of a Chinese slowdown, although direct exposure to the latter is limited and of and management of operational risk.
An evidenced by an increasingly stable model essential component is improvement in the inventory and further improvements in high quality.
The Committee also considered updates on risk themes related to US Risk and Control Self-Assessments RCSAs.
These are now derived from a process-based Consumer Credit and European peripheral and In late 2017, the Committee commissioned redenomination risk, as well as operational approach which will enable management to an external third party assessment of the risks related to cyber security.
These risks better identify and manage operational risks.
Risk function, which was delivered in 2018. are actively monitored and managed and the In addition, the Committee was pleased to see The review concluded that the function Committee maintains regular oversight progress in the implementation of Structured meets regulatory expectations, is meeting of the risk profile and actions taken.
These are or exceeding industry standards, evidences used to evaluate operational risk arising Credit risk management in 2018 was effective and independent oversight with good from more extreme, but plausible situations.
particularly focused on maintenance of the evidence of challenge, with strong stewardship The Committee was able to review outputs defensive positioning of our UK portfolios, and technical competence.
The Committee from the SSAs related to Critical Application continuing the approach which has been encouraged management to develop action Disruption and Large Scale Data Disruption, pursued since the UK Referendum on leaving plans to address the areas highlighted in the both of which are key areas of Board and the EU in June 2016.
Following a high profile assessment where evolution of regulatory regulatory focus in relation to operational single-name corporate failure in 2017, the expectations or best practice will require focus resilience.
Committee also received a detailed analysis in 2019 and these plans will be monitored by from management on Tall Tree exposures The Committee also evaluated Barclays the Committee.
approach to the management of cyber risk, in the Corporate bank, both in the UK and US, to understand the portfolio composition, receiving a briefing on the current cyber threat landscape and Barclays strategy and capability governance and approval processes, as well as key risks and mitigants.
The Committee for responding to the threat.
This included a detailed briefing on the build-out of was satisfied that the portfolio was operating satisfactorily within established limits but transformational improvements to Barclays home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 77 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Risk Committee report Committee performance Committee composition and meetings Committee role and responsibilities The Committees performance during 2018 The Committee is comprised solely of The Committee is responsible for: was assessed by Independent Board Evaluation, independent non-executive Directors.
recommending to the Board the Barclays an independent, external corporate governance You can find more details of the experience Groups risk appetite for financial, consultancy as part of the annual effectiveness of Committee members in their biographies operational and legal risk review.
The results show that the Committees on pages 51 and 52. monitoring financial, operational and legal work is regarded as clear, systematic and risk appetite, including setting limits for Committee allocation of time % thorough, and the Board takes assurance from individual types of risk, e. g. credit, market the quality of the Committees work.
Last and funding risk 1 4 years review highlighted the need to ensure monitoring the Barclays Groups financial, 3 that the way in which the Committee works operational and legal risk profile with the Audit Committee and the Reputation commissioning, receiving and considering Committee continues to capture all significant reports on key financial operational and issues effectively while minimising any overlap.
legal risk issues To address this, the Committee sought to 2 ensure that it continued to work closely with providing input from a financial and the other Board Committees during 2018 operational risk perspective to the 2018 2017 and the results of the review note good Remuneration Committee to assist in its 1 Risk profile risk appetite co-ordination with the Audit Committee, in including capital and deliberations relating to incentive packages.
The results indicate that, in 2019, The Committees terms of reference are available it may be helpful to consider areas where 2 Key risk issues 26 26 at home.
barclays corporategovernance the work of the Committee could be further 3 Internal control risk policies 9 12 streamlined in conjunction with the risk 4 Other including committees of Barclays Bank UK PLC and remuneration and Barclays Bank PLC.
governance issues 9 9 You can read more about the outcomes Based on scheduled meetings of the review of Board, Board Committee and individual Director effectiveness on page 71.
During 2018, the Committee met nine times, Looking ahead and the chart above shows how it allocated In 2019, the Committee will continue to focus its time.
Two of the meetings were held on the impact of the external environment at Barclays New York offices.
Committee on the risk profile of the bank, particularly meetings were attended by representatives as the position in relation to the UK withdrawal from management, including the Group from the EU becomes clearer.
Following the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, feedback from the independent Board Group Chief Internal Auditor, Group Chief evaluation, we will also consider opportunities Risk Officer, Group Treasurer and Group to optimise activities with the risk committees General Counsel, as well as representatives of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank from the businesses and other representatives PLC.
Finally, the committee will continue to from the Risk function.
The lead audit partner evaluate progress made by the Risk function of KPMG the Barclays Groups external in further developing its capabilities and impact.
auditor attended all Committee meetings in 2018 from January to July this was Guy Bainbridge: from August onwards this was Michelle Hinchliffe.
Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Tim Breedon 9 9 Mike Ashley 9 9 Mary Anne Citrino Tim Breedon from 1 November 2018 2 2 Chair, Board Risk Committee Reuben Jeffery III 8 9 20 February 2019 Matthew Lester 9 9 Diane Schueneman 9 9 Including one combined meeting of the Risk Committee and the Reputation Committee.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2018 are described on the following pages.
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Risk appetite and The risk context to Medium To discuss and agree stress loss The Committee reviewed proposed stress testing Term Plan MTP, the financial and mandate and scale limits, enhancements to the Barclays Groups i. e. the level of risk parameters and constraints for Credit Risk, Market Risk and stress testing processes which are designed the Barclays Group and mandate and scale limits for Treasury and Capital risk.
to improve capabilities in this area.
chooses to take in specific business risk exposures: To evaluate the BoE annual cyclical The Committee reviewed and approved, for pursuit of its business the Barclays Groups internal stress test results, and the results recommendation to the Board, the financial objectives, including stress testing exercises, including of a stress test under the EBA results of the MTP internal stress test testing whether the scenario selection and financial biennial stress test submission.
exercise on the basis that Barclays remained Barclays Groups constraints, stress testing within the Barclays Groups Risk Appetite.
Considered and approve internal financial position and themes and the results and stress test themes and the risk profile provide implications of stress tests, The Committee requested and received an financial constraints and scenarios sufficient resilience including those run by the overview of the stress testing principles and for stress testing risk appetite for to withstand the Bank of England BoE and objectives which served to provide a helpful the MTP.
impact of severe the European Banking framework for the review of the stress test To consider the Federal Reserve economic stress.
results submissions to the BoE and EBA.
Boards feedback of the US The Committee approved the 2018 annual Intermediary Holding Companys stress test results for submission to the BoE, Comprehensive Capital Analysis including a range of strategic management and Review CCAR following the actions, in addition to the standard BAU submission of the CCAR stress management actions designed to mitigate test results.
Similarly, the Committee approved the results of the stress test under the biennial EBA stress test submission.
Capital and funding The trajectory to achieving To review on a regular basis, The Committee examined and supported i. e. having sufficient required regulatory and capital performance against plan, the forecast capital and funding trajectory capital and financial internal targets and capital tracking the capital trajectory, any and the actions identified by management resources to meet and leverage ratios.
challenges and opportunities and to manage the Barclays Groups the Barclays regulatory policy developments.
Groups regulatory To assess on a regular basis The Committee considered and approved requirements and its liquidity performance against both the Barclays Group capital adequacy obligations as they internal and regulatory assessment together with the methodologies fall due, to maintain requirements.
and results of the reverse stress testing for its credit rating, to To monitor capital and funding submission of the 2018 Internal Capital support growth and requirements.
Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP as strategic options.
well as the Barclays Groups 2018 Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
Approvals included, for the first time, assessments for Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC on an individual basis, as required by the Regulator.
The Committee also considered and discussed feedback from the Regulator in relation to the ICAAP submission and requested management to provide regular updates on planned improvements to the ICAAP process in response to the feedback.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 79 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Risk Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Political and The potential impact on the To review and discuss plans for In relation to the potential risk impacts economic risk Barclays Groups risk profile of the impacts of Brexit under various of Brexit, considerations were escalated to i. e. the impact on geopolitical developments, as withdrawal scenarios.
include operational resilience to the impact the Barclays Groups well as continuing to monitor the risk of an exit with no agreement in place.
To consider trends in the UK and risk profile of political potential political and economic US economies, including the Other key material risk themes kept and economic impact of Brexit scenarios impact of rate rises.
under review by the Committee included developments and To assess the transmission effects stress in US consumer credit and stress macroeconomic of a Chinese economic slowdown in UK property.
trade war metrics arising from its A new theme of Italian peripheral and influence on the world economy.
redenomination risk was added as a key To review exposures to Emerging risk theme.
Markets as a result of volatility in The Committee directed management these markets arising from the to apply additional focus to monitoring impact of global political and evidence of rising global leverage, credit economic events cycle and geopolitical risks.
Credit risk Conditions in the UK housing To assess conditions in the UK The Committee reiterated to management i. e. the potential market, particularly in London property market and monitor the need to ensure appropriate credit for financial loss if and the South East: levels of signs of stress.
selection and discipline when selecting customers fail to fulfil UK consumer indebtedness, business, and the importance of consumer To monitor how management their contractual particularly in the context of profiling to achieve better risk selection.
was tracking and responding obligations.
the risk of inflation and negative to persistent rising levels of The Committee encouraged management real wage growth: and the consumer indebtedness, to continue with its conservative approach performance of the UK and US particularly unsecured credit to UK lending and supported pre-emptive Cards businesses, including in both the UK and US.
measures to fide-risk the UK Cards portfolio levels of impairment.
To review Leveraged Finance to guard against any downturn in the UK economy.
portfolios in order to assess these were within risk appetite and manageable limits.
To review business development activities in the Corporate and Investment Bank.
Operational risk The Barclays Groups operational To track operational risk key The Committee focused its attention on the i. e. costs arising from risk capital requirements and any indicators.
financial and capital impacts of operational human factors, material changes to the Barclays risk.
In relation to cyber risk, the Committee To consider specific areas of inadequate processes Groups operational risk profile received an update on the transformational operational risks, including fraud, and systems or and performance of specific improvements to Barclays security posture conduct risk, cyber risk, execution external events.
operational risks against agreed and associated controls in this area and risk, technology and data, risk appetite.
endorsed management plans to remediate including the controls that had and implement new controls designed been put in place for managing to enable more accurate prediction of and avoiding such risks.
cyberattacks and increase speed of detection To review Barclays approach of cyber events in order to minimise impact to scenario analyses as a risk on Barclays and client customers.
In relation management tool and assess to Fraud and Transaction Operation risks, a range of Structured Scenario the Committee requested and assessed Assessments which had been a report on Barclays fraud capabilities to created to support assessments reduce losses in these areas.
and management of tail risk within The Committee approved the 2018 the business, stress testing and risk tolerance.
Operational Risk Tolerance Statement, which proposed a higher tolerance of operational risks, provided these have a Risk Reduction Plan based on approved control improvements.
The Committee reviewed and approved two material outsourcing programmes which supported the roll-out of Barclays Cloud outsourcing.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Model risk Model risk governance.
To evaluate the appropriateness The Committee reviewed and approved i. e. the risk of the of the Barclays Model Risk the Model Risk Framework and Tolerance potential adverse Management framework, Statement.
consequences from and monitor progress on the The Committee maintained oversight of financial assessments implementation of an enhanced Model risk and in particular monitored or decisions based modelling framework, including planned improvements to Barclays Model on incorrect or receiving updates on findings Risk Management framework and ongoing misused model in relation to specific modelling upgrade plans.
This included reviewing outputs and reports.
and assessing Barclays material alignment with the PRA Supervisory Statement on stress test models.
The Committee agreed an approach towards other Large Model Frameworks such as ICAAP, ILAAP and stress testing and monitored progress to ensure that the scope of Model Risk Management MRM implementation was expanded to bring into governance non-modelled methods used in other Large Model Frameworks.
The Committee urged management to focus on remediation of models used in financial planning and stress testing where these were currently non-compliant with the regulators guidance.
In relation to progress with MRM implementation, the Committee observed progress with validation of Tier 1 material models which had been documented under new enhanced standards, as well as the documentation of Tier 2 and Tier 3 models.
The Committee also maintained oversight of the models used in the CCAR 2018 submission to ensure these were materially brought into governance by management.
The substantive completion of this exercise was believed to have been a significant factor in the positive CCAR result.
Risk framework and The frameworks, policies To track the progress of significant The Committee assessed during the year governance and talent and tools in place risk management projects, the Barclays Groups risk management to support effective risk including progress on achieving capability in the form of an independent management and oversight.
compliance with the Basel assessment of the design and effectiveness Committee for Banking Supervision of the Risk function.
BCBS239 risk data aggregation The Committee discussed and approved principles and reviewed the results an annual refresh of the Principal Risk of the 2017 Risk and Control Frameworks under the remit of Self-Assessment RCSA process the Committee.
across the Barclays Group together with an update on the approach The annual update to the ERMF was also to the 2018 RCSA process.
To assess risk management matters raised by Barclays regulators and the actions being taken by management to respond.
To review the design of the Barclays Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
Remuneration The scope of any risk adjustments To debate the Risk functions The Committee discussed the report of to be taken into account by the view of performance, making the Chief Risk Officer and considered the Board Remuneration Committee a recommendation to the Board proposal put forward in relation to the when making remuneration Remuneration Committee on the impact of relevant risk factors in decisions for 2018. financial and operational risk determining 2018 remuneration.
factors to be taken into account in remuneration decisions for 2018.
Read more about Barclays risk management on pages 129 to 130 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 81 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2018 Board Risk Committee report In addition, the Committee also covered the Governance in action following matters in 2018: reviewed and assessed Barclays liquidity Risk of the UKs planned departure from the EU pool investment portfolio from a perspective A key focus of the committee in 2018 was In addition, to provide increased focus on of the limit framework defined by Risk the continued oversight of managements issues of operational resilience associated considered and approved a large nonactions to respond to the political and with a disorderly Brexit, a war room investment grade transaction underwriting economic uncertainty following the UKs was established by senior management commitment on the basis of exposure decision to leave the EU, above and beyond to identify those risks which were most within distribution activity limits the Groups intention to continue to serve pertinent to continuity of business, considered detailed report of Tall Trees its customers in the EU through expansion and the committee has reviewed and exposure in Corporate lending and of its banking licence in Ireland.
The discussed the key risks highlighted and Leveraged Finance portfolios Committees oversight has evolved as the managements risk mitigation approach.
final date for the UK exit from the EU comes The risks considered by the Committee considered detailed reports in relation closer, and is summarised below: include operational, legal, people, liquidity to growth opportunities in the Investment and capital related risks.
Bank from a risk activities perspective Throughout the year, management continued to update the committee Finally, as the UK parliamentary process considered a report on the effectiveness on management of UK portfolio risks nears its conclusion, the Committee has of the Committee and any areas of the consistent with the cautious approach received updates from management Committees performance that could recommended in the light of political as to its monitoring of expected market be improved and economic uncertainty.
Relevant risk volatility with additional oversight reviewed and updated its terms of themes were also monitored by the established to review and assess market reference, recommending them to the committee in considering the evolution behaviour, risk exposure, and operational Board for approval.
of the risk profile, in particular those impacts in the event of abnormal volatility related to UK consumer and corporate and transaction volumes.
Read more about Barclays risk management risk, UK property price stress and the on pages 129 to 130 and in our Pillar 3 UK retail sector.
Report, which is available online at barclays.
com annualreport As the potential for a disorderly exit from the EU increased, the Committee encouraged management to further intensify scrutiny over those sectors of the economy most likely to be adversely impacted and received reports highlighting management actions to proactively address these risks.
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report How we comply The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Code As Barclays PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we apply the main principles of The Code, as set out below.
A revised version of The Code was published in 2018, and came into effect for our financial year beginning on 1 January 2019 The New Code.
The New Code, together with The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 The Regulations which was also published in 2018 and came into effect for our financial year beginning on 1 January 2019, mark a major landmark in the UK governments suite of corporate governance reforms which aim to build trust in business.
Barclays PLC will report against the requirements of The New Code and The Regulations in its next Annual Report.
Please refer to the Governance reporting for 2019 section on page 88 for a description of certain enhancements already made to our governance practices to reflect the requirements of The New Code and The Regulations.
A copy of The Code, and The New Code, can be found at frc.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as at the date of this report, we are pleased to confirm that we complied in full with the provisions of The Code.
The Charter of Expectations is reviewed Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The Board of Directors is Rules annually to ensure it remains relevant, and responsible for promoting was recently updated to reflect our new By virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the Annual Report corporate structure, the requirements the highest standards of of The New Code and The Regulations, we comply with the corporate governance corporate governance in statement requirements of the FCAs and industry best practice.
A copy of the Charter of Expectations can be found at Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
the Barclays Group Certain additional information that is required home.
to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.
6 can be Roles on the Board Attendance found on pages 89 to 92.
Executive and non-executive Directors share As members of the Board of Directors we the same duties and are subject to the same New York Stock Exchange NYSE are expected to attend every Board meeting.
However, in line with the principles Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow In 2018, we attended both scheduled and of The Code, a clear division of responsibilities UK corporate governance practices instead additional Board meetings which were often has been established.
The Chairman is of those applied in the US.
However, any called at short notice and attendance was responsible for leading and managing the significant variations must be explained in very strong, as recorded in the table on the work of the Board, while responsibility for the Barclays PLC Form 20-F filing, which can be following page.
The Chairman met privately day-to-day management of Barclays has been accessed from the Securities and Exchange with the non-executive Directors ahead of delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
The Commissions EDGAR database or on our each scheduled Board meeting and if, owing Group Chief Executive is supported in this role website, home.
to exceptional circumstances, a Director was by the Barclays Group Executive Committee.
not able to attend a Board meeting he or she Further information on membership of the ensured that their views were made known Leadership Barclays Group Executive Committee can be to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Role of the Board As highlighted earlier in this report, the Board As a Board we have set out our expectations of Directors is responsible for promoting the of each Director in Barclays Charter of highest standards of corporate governance Expectations.
This includes role profiles and in the Barclays Group.
We act in a way that the behaviours and competencies required we consider promotes the success of Barclays for each role on the Board, namely the for the benefit of shareholders as a whole, Chairman, Deputy Chairman to the extent and are accountable to the shareholders for one is required, Senior Independent Director, creating and delivering sustainable value.
non-executive Directors, executive Directors We are responsible for the overall leadership and Committee Chairs.
Pursuant to the of the Barclays Group, including establishing Charter of Expectations, non-executive its purpose, values and strategy, and satisfying Directors provide effective oversight, strategic ourselves as to the alignment of Barclays guidance and constructive challenge, examine culture to its purpose, values and strategy.
proposals on strategy and empower the In 2018, the Board approved a new common executive Directors to implement the strategy purpose for the Barclays Group Creating approved by the Board, whilst holding the Opportunities to Rise which reflects executive Directors to account.
The Senior Barclays entrepreneurial spirit, relentless Independent Director provides a sounding quest for better, customer and client centricity, board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary and our commitments to society at large and for the other Directors when necessary and is to our colleagues.
available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been addressed through the The Board is also responsible for ensuring normal channels.
that management maintains a sound system of audit, risk management, compliance and internal control.
For further information about the role of the Board and its responsibilities, together with the Board governance framework, please see page 53 to 55. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 83 Governance: Directors report How we comply Scheduled Additional meetings Scheduled meetings Additional eligible meetings % eligible meetings Board attendance Independent to attend attended attendance to attend attended Chairman John McFarlane On appointment 15 15 100 6 6 Executive Directors Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 15 15 100 4 4 Jes Staley Executive Director 15 15 100 4 4 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley Independent 15 15 100 5 5 Tim Breedon CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 5 Sir Ian Cheshire Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Mary Anne Citrino Independent 8 8 100 2 2 Mary Francis CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Crawford Gillies Senior Independent Director 15 15 100 6 6 Sir Gerry Grimstone Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Reuben Jeffery III Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Matthew Lester Independent 15 15 100 6 5 Dambisa Moyo Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Diane Schueneman Independent 15 15 100 6 4 Mike Turner CBE Independent 15 15 100 6 6 Secretary Stephen Shapiro 15 15 100 6 6 As required by The Code, the Chairman was independent on appointment.
Board Committee cross-membership The table below shows the number of cross-memberships of our non-executive Directors across our Board Committees.
Board Board Board Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Reputation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Risk Committee 3 3 1 1 Board Reputation Committee 1 1 2 Board Remuneration Committee 2 2 Board Nominations Committee 3 Effectiveness Diversity across the Barclays Group, remains Composition of the Board The Code, the independence of Tim Breedon, In line with the requirements of The Code, Reuben Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo all of a key area of focus.
The Barclays Group recognises and embraces the benefits of a majority of the Board are independent whom have served on the Board for more than non-executive Directors.
The Board currently six years was subjected to a more rigorous a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board level as an essential element in maintaining comprises a Chairman, who was independent review.
The Board remains satisfied that the on appointment as required by The Code, lengths of their tenure have no impact on their a competitive advantage.
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the composition two executive Directors and 12 non-executive respective levels of independence or the Directors.
We consider the independence of effectiveness of their contributions.
of the Board and the Board Committees.
It frequently considers a skills matrix for the our non-executive Directors annually, using All appointments to the Board are based the independence criteria set out in The Board, which identifies the core competencies, on merit and objective criteria, in the context skills, diversity and experience required for Code and by reviewing performance against of the strategy of the Barclays Group and behaviours that we have identified as essential the Board to deliver its strategic aims and the diversity of gender, social and ethnic govern the Barclays Group effectively.
Certain in order to be considered independent.
As part backgrounds, cognitive and personal of this process, the Board keeps under review attributes identified in the skills matrix have strengths, as well as skills, knowledge and a target weighting attached to them and these the length of tenure of all Directors, which experience required for the Board to be is a factor that is considered as part of are regularly updated to reflect the needs of effective.
Appointments are made following the Barclays Group.
The size of the Board is its deliberations when determining the a formal, rigorous and transparent process.
independence of our non-executive Directors.
not fixed and may be revised from time to time to reflect the changing needs of the In accordance with the recommendations of 84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information business.
The Committee reviews the skills Time commitment Induction matrix when considering a potential new All potential new Directors are asked to On appointment to the Board, all Directors appointment to the Board, as well as disclose their significant commitments, receive a comprehensive induction which reviewing the current and expected Board and to give an indication of the time spent is tailored to the new Directors individual and Board Committee composition.
The induction schedule is helps to determine a timeline for proposed Committee will then take this into account designed to quickly provide the new Director appointments to the Board.
when considering a proposed appointment with an understanding of how the Barclays on the basis that all Directors are expected Group works and the key issues that it To the extent that the Nominations Committee to allocate sufficient time to their role faces.
The Company Secretary consults identifies any gaps in the Boards profile on the Board in order to discharge their the Chairman when designing an induction which may be a result of the forthcoming responsibilities effectively.
This includes schedule, giving consideration to the retirement of a Director, or in response to attending, and being well-prepared for, all particular needs of the new Director.
When changing market needs that information is Board and Board Committee meetings, as well a Director is joining a Board Committee, used to inform the search for a new Director as making time to understand the business, the schedule includes an induction to the or Directors.
For example, as at the date of meet with executives and regulators, and operation of that committee.
this report, there are four female Directors complete ongoing training.
As stated in On completion of the induction programme, 27% against a target of having 33% female our Charter of Expectations, the time representation on the Board by 2020, to which the Director should have sufficient knowledge commitment associated with their respective and understanding of the nature of the we remain committed.
roles is agreed with each non-executive business, and the opportunities and challenges Directors are subject to election or re-election Director on an individual basis.
All significant facing Barclays, to enable them to effectively each year by shareholders at the AGM.
Having new commitments require prior approval.
contribute to strategic discussions and served on the Board for nine years, Reuben Set out below is the average expected time oversight of the Barclays Group.
Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo will both be commitment for the role of non-executive retiring from the Board at this years AGM and Directors and the other non-executive Following her appointment in 2018, Mary will not, therefore, be standing for re-election.
For these additional Anne Citrino received such an induction.
She positions there is an expectation that, in met with the Company Secretary, the current In recent years, the Board has assessed order to effectively fulfil extra responsibilities, non-executive Directors and members of the its effectiveness, and that of the Board additional time commitment is required.
Barclays Group Executive Committee, and Committees and the individual Directors, certain other senior executives, as part of that annually in a process facilitated by an Time commitment process.
An extensive induction programme independent third party.
This has been driven Role Expected time commitment for Nigel Higgins is underway.
by the Boards belief that an effective Board Chairman Equivalent to up to 80% Training and development is key to the delivery of a companys strategy.
of a full time position A full external review of the effectiveness of In order to continue to contribute effectively Senior As required to fulfil the role to Board and Board Committee meetings, the Board, the Board Committees and the Independent individual Directors was assessed in Q4 of Directors are regularly provided with the Director opportunity to take part in ongoing training 2018 in a process facilitated by Independent Non- 30 days per year membership Board Evaluation, an independent, external and development and can also request executive of one Board Committee specific training that we may consider corporate governance consultancy.
The review Director included, increasing to assessed whether each of the Directors necessary or useful.
As part of our annual 40 days a year if a member performance review with the Chairman, continues to discharge their respective duties of two Board Committees and responsibilities effectively, and concluded we discuss any particular development needs Committee At least 60 days per year that can be met through either formal training that they do.
The results of the review were Chairs including non-executive considered when deciding whether individual or meeting with a particular senior executive.
Director time commitment In 2018, Directors received ongoing training in Directors would offer themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
More information relation to legal and regulatory developments The Chairman must commit to expend in the form of regular briefings.
Topics on the 2018 Board effectiveness review, and whatever time is necessary to fulfil his duties the Boards progress against the findings of included whistleblowing and the Senior and, while this is expected to be equivalent Managers and Certification Regime.
the 2017 effectiveness review, can be found to up to 80% of a full time position, the role on page 71. as Chairman of the Barclays Group, and Conflicts of interest leadership of the Board, have priority over Our biographies containing our relevant skills In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, other business commitments.
In exceptional and experience, Board Committee membership and the Articles of Association, the Board has circumstances, we are all expected to commit and other principal appointments can be the authority to authorise conflicts of interest.
significantly more time to our work on found on pages 51 and 52.
Details of changes Directors are required to declare any potential the Board.
to the Board in 2018 and year to date are or actual conflicts of interest that could disclosed on page 89. interfere with their ability to act in the best As mentioned above, Directors are now obliged interests of the Barclays Group.
The Company to obtain pre-clearance prior to taking on any The service contracts for the executive Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which additional commitments, including but not Directors and the letters of appointment for is a record of actual and potential conflicts, limited to directorships, and to indicate in the the Chairman and non-executive Directors are together with any Board authorisation of clearance request the likely time commitment available for inspection at our registered office.
The authorisations are for an involved.
The Company Secretary maintains indefinite period but are reviewed annually a record of each Directors commitments.
by the Nominations Committee, which also For the year ended 31 December 2018, and as considers the effectiveness of the process at the date of this report, the Board is satisfied for authorising Directors conflicts of interest.
that none of the Directors is over-committed The Board retains the power to vary or and that each of the Directors allocates terminate the authorisation at any time.
sufficient time to his or her role in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 85 Governance: Directors report How we comply Information provided to the Board The Barclays Group is committed to operating The review of the effectiveness of the risk The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out within a strong system of internal control management and internal control system is in our Charter of Expectations, confirms his that enables business to be transacted and achieved through reviewing the effectiveness responsibility for ensuring that Board agendas risk taken without exposure to unacceptable of the frameworks, principles and processes are primarily focused on strategy, performance potential losses or reputational damage.
contained within The Barclays Guide, the and key value creation issues and that Barclays has an overarching framework that ERMF and the Barclays Control Framework.
members of the Board receive accurate, timely sets out the approach of the Barclays Group Key considerations of the most recent and high-quality information.
In particular, to internal governance, The Barclays Guide, review were: we require information about Barclays which establishes the mechanisms, principles The operation of Controls Committees performance to enable us to take sound and processes by which management of the Barclays Group and the key legal decisions, monitor effectively and provide implements the strategy set by the Board entities, businesses and functions in the advice to promote the success of the Company.
to direct the organisation, through setting Barclays Group to monitor, review and Working in collaboration with the Chairman, the tone and expectations from the top, challenge the effective operation of key the Company Secretary is responsible for delegating its authority, exercising oversight risk management and control processes, ensuring good governance and consults and assessing compliance.
including the results of audits and Directors to ensure that the Board receives the reviews undertaken by BIA which include A key component of The Barclays Guide is information it requires in order to be effective.
assessments of the control environment the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and management control approach and Throughout the year, both the executive ERMF.
The purpose of the ERMF is to examinations and assessments undertaken Directors and senior executives keep the identify and set minimum requirements by our primary regulators, on an ongoing Board informed of key developments in the in respect of the main risks to achieving the basis.
The remediation of issues identified business through regular reports and updates.
strategic objectives of the Barclays Group.
within the control environment is regularly The key elements of the Barclays Groups These are in addition to the presentations that monitored by management and the the Board and Board Committees receive as system of risk management and internal Audit Committee.
control, which are aligned to the part of their formal meetings.
Directors are able to seek independent and professional recommendations of The Committee of Testing of the operation of executive Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway advice at Barclays expense, if required, to committees to provide assurance that the enable them to fulfil their obligations as Commission, Internal Control Integrated committees are operating as per their Terms Framework 2013 COSO, are set out in the members of the Board.
of Reference and are effectively overseeing risk frameworks relating to each of our eight the control environment and associated Principal Risks and the Barclays Control risk management and internal control Accountability Framework, which details requirements processes, where appropriate.
Internal governance processes have been for the delivery of control responsibilities.
A review of the key governance processes developed to ensure the effective operation Barclays Group-wide frameworks, policies and principles which comprise The Barclays of the individual boards and board committees and standards enable Barclays to meet Guide to confirm that the processes have of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC regulators expectations relating to internal operated effectively.
and Barclays Bank PLC respectively, in control and assurance.
Regular reports are made to the Board recognition of the fact that this is key to the Effectiveness of internal controls covering significant risks to the Barclays development and execution of the Barclays Key controls are assessed on a regular basis Group.
The Risk Committee and the Groups strategy.
Generally, there is one for both design and operating effectiveness.
Reputation Committee examine reports set of rules for the Barclays Group: Barclays Issues arising out of business risk and control covering the Principal Risks as well as reports Group-wide frameworks, policies and assessments and other internal and external on risk measurement methodologies and risk standards are required to be adopted sources are examined to identify pervasive appetite.
The Audit Committee oversees the throughout the Barclays Group unless local themes.
Where appropriate, control issues control environment and remediation of laws or regulations or the ring-fencing are reported to the Audit Committee.
You related issues, and assesses the adequacy obligations applicable to Barclays Bank UK can read more about the work of the Audit of credit impairment.
Further details of risk PLC require otherwise, or the Barclays Group Committee on pages 58 to 67. management procedures and potential risk Executive Committee decides otherwise in factors are given in the Risk review section a particular instance.
Risk management and internal on pages 129 to 222. control framework Risk management and internal control The ERMF is the risk management and Controls over financial reporting The Directors are responsible for ensuring that internal control framework for the Barclays A framework of disclosure controls and management maintains an effective system Group.
There are eight Principal Risks under procedures is in place to support the approval of risk management and internal control and the ERMF: Credit risk, Market risk, Treasury of the financial statements of the Barclays for assessing its effectiveness.
Such a system and Capital risk, Operational risk, Model risk, Group.
Specific governance committees are is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, Reputation risk, Conduct risk and Legal risk.
responsible for examining the financial reports rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to and disclosures to ensure that they have been achieve business objectives and can only The Audit Committee formally reviews the subject to adequate verification and comply provide reasonable and not absolute assurance risk management and internal control system, with applicable standards and legislation.
against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and to These committees report their conclusions date, the Barclays Group has operated to the Audit Committee, which debates its a system of internal control that provides conclusions and provides further challenge.
reasonable assurance of effective operations Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves covering all controls, including financial and results announcements and the Barclays PLC operational controls and compliance with annual report, and ensures that appropriate laws and regulations.
Processes are in place disclosures have been made.
This governance for identifying, evaluating and managing the process ensures that both management and Principal Risks facing the Barclays Group the Board are given sufficient opportunity to in accordance with the Guidance on Risk debate and challenge the financial statements Management, Internal Control and Related of the Barclays Group and other significant Financial and Business Reporting published disclosures before they are made public.
86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Managements report on internal control During 2018, discussions with investors Remuneration over financial reporting included, but were not limited to: the improved The Board has delegated responsibility Management is responsible for establishing operating performance of the Barclays Group for the consideration and approval of the and maintaining adequate internal control in the first nine months post-structural remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, over financial reporting.
Internal control over reform: the continued digitisation of the executive Directors, other senior executives financial reporting is a process designed under Bank and ongoing investment in technology and certain Barclays Group employees to the the supervision of the principal executive and as well as the value being created by Barclays Remuneration Committee.
The Board as principal financial officers to provide reasonable Execution Services in improving the mix and a whole, with the non-executive Directors assurance regarding the reliability of financial efficiency of our cost base.
We discussed abstaining, considers annually the fees paid reporting and the preparation of financial how these actions have, collectively, created to non-executive Directors.
Information on the statements for external reporting purposes the capacity for investment in growth activities of the Remuneration Committee in in accordance with International Financial opportunities, helping drive long-term 2018 can be found in the Remuneration report Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the sustainable returns for shareholders.
Investors on pages 99 to 126, which forms part of this European Union and issued by the International also discussed topics including prudent risk Governance section of the Annual Report.
Internal control management and steps taken to mitigate over financial reporting includes policies and the potential impact from the uncertainty procedures that pertain to the maintenance surrounding Brexit, as well as ESG factors, Relations with shareholders of records that, in reasonable detail: our corporate and investment bank strategy, The Board recognises the importance our valuation and capital levels.
Accurately and fairly reflect transactions of listening to, and understanding the and dispositions of assets.
Investor meetings focused on corporate views of, our shareholders such that this Provide reasonable assurances that governance also took place throughout the information can be used to inform the year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent transactions are recorded as necessary to Boards decision-making.
permit preparation of financial statements Director, other Board representatives and the Shareholders Company Secretary.
in accordance with IFRS and that receipts The Board is committed to promoting and expenditures are being made only We held conference calls webcasts for our effective channels of communication with in accordance with authorisations of quarterly results briefings and an in-person our shareholders and upholding good management and the respective Directors.
presentation for our 2017 full year results corporate governance as a means of building Provide reasonable assurance regarding in February 2018, all hosted by the Group stronger and more engaged relationships with prevention or timely detection of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director them.
Our comprehensive Investor Relations unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition who also maintain a dialogue with investors engagement with the market helps us to of assets that could have a material effect throughout the year.
In addition, the Group understand investor views about Barclays, on the financial statements.
Finance Director held a quarterly breakfast which are communicated regularly to the briefing for sell-side analysts.
Our shareholder communication Internal control systems, no matter how well investors, we held conference calls at our designed, have inherent limitations and may guidelines, which underpin all investor full year and half year results hosted by the engagement, are available on our website not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness at home.
Following each event, a transcript of the to future periods are subject to the risk that Institutional investors discussion was uploaded to our website.
internal controls may become inadequate In 2018, our Investor Relations engagement because of changes in conditions, or that the The Investor Relations section of our website with institutional investors took place degree of compliance with the policies or is an important communication channel throughout the year, both following our procedures may deteriorate.
that enables the effective distribution of quarterly results as well as outside of the information to the market in a clear and Management has assessed the internal reporting cycle.
We increased our level of consistent manner.
Executive management control over financial reporting as of engagement with shareholders year over presentations, speeches and, where possible, 31 December 2018.
In making its assessment, year, allowing the opportunity for existing webcast replays are uploaded to our website management utilised the criteria set out in and potential new investors to engage with on a timely basis.
the 2013 COSO framework and concluded Barclays regularly, promoting dialogue on that, based on its assessment, the internal longer-term strategic developments as well Private shareholders control over financial reporting was effective as on the recent financial performance of During 2018, we continued to communicate as of 31 December 2018. the Barclays Group.
with our private shareholders through our shareholder mailings.
Shareholders can also The Directors, in conjunction with the senior The system of internal financial and choose to sign up to Shareview so that they operational controls is also subject to executive team and Investor Relations, receive information about Barclays PLC and participated in varied forms of engagement, regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
their shareholding directly by email.
Further information on supervision by the including investor meetings, seminars and conferences across many geographic financial services regulators is provided On a practical level, over 60,000 shareholders under Supervision and Regulation in the locations, reflecting the diverse nature of did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up our equity and debt institutional ownership.
Risk review section on pages 215 to 222.
SNTU cheque following the Rights Issue in In 2018, we placed greater emphasis on September 2013.
In 2018, we continued the Changes in internal control over financial shareholder engagement with a broader tracing process to reunite these shareholders reporting range of divisional management presenting with their SNTU monies and any unclaimed There have been no changes in the Barclays to investors, deepening understanding of dividends and by the end of the year, we had Groups internal control over financial Barclays investment case, and promoting returned approximately 65,000 to our reporting which have materially affected or greater awareness and understanding of shareholders, in addition to approximately are reasonably likely to materially affect the our operating businesses.
212,000 returned in 2017, 1.65m returned Barclays Groups internal control over financial in 2016 and 2.2m in 2015. reporting during the year.
The Barclays Group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2019 and has updated and modified certain controls over financial reporting as a result of the new accounting standard, embedding them into the existing control environment.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 87 Governance: Directors report How we comply Each year we launch a Share Dealing Service the Barclays Group and any questions they Voting on the resolutions will again be by aimed at shareholders with relatively small may have.
A number of Directors, including poll and the results will be announced shareholdings for whom it might otherwise the Chairman, are available for informal via the Regulatory News Service and made be uneconomical to deal.
One option open to discussion either before or after the meeting.
available on our website on the same day.
shareholders is to donate their sale proceeds We encourage any shareholders who are All resolutions proposed at the 2018 AGM, to ShareGift.
As a result of this initiative, unable to attend on the day to vote in which were considered on a poll, were passed 46,957 was donated in 2018, taking the advance of the meeting via home.
barclays with votes For ranging from 88.48% to total donated since 2015 to over 345,000. investorrelations vote or through Shareview 99.94% of the total votes cast.
Our AGM The 2019 AGM will be held on Thursday The Board and the senior executive team For further details on how we engaged with our 2 May 2019 at 11.00am at the QEII Centre continue to consider our AGM as a key date shareholders and other stakeholders in 2018, in London.
The Notice of AGM can be found please refer to page 16 of the Strategic Report.
The AGM in a separate document, which is sent out at provides us with our main opportunity to least 20 working days before the AGM and engage with shareholders, particularly our also made available at home.
private shareholders, on the key issues facing Governance reporting for 2019 and the results of the Your View surveys Having reviewed our existing governance The Barclays Group has a long-standing arrangements against the requirements commitment to the importance and value including the survey conducted in 2018. of The New Code and The Regulations, of colleague engagement.
It is colleagues In addition to the Culture Dashboard and and industry best practice, a number of that drive our success.
You can read more Your View, we plan to introduce further amendments to documentation and certain about our commitment to colleagues in the qualitative mechanisms including the enhancements to practices have already Our culture and people section on page 11. establishment of regional focus groups, been implemented.
Changes to the Charter As part of this long-standing commitment, and obtaining formal feedback on core topics of Expectations, the Boards Schedule senior management developed an extensive from Unite and the Barclays Group European of Matters Reserved, and each Board engagement matrix.
Consequently, there are Forum to enhance the information that Committees terms of reference have a number of existing channels for engagement is already gathered.
Enhancements to practices, with colleagues and for ensuring that the including but not limited to the below, Board is made aware of views expressed.
In relation to understanding other stakeholders views, the impact of our either have been or will be implemented This engagement matrix with colleagues during 2019 and we will report against includes multi-channel communications, behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues and society is The New Code in our next Annual Report.
town halls and question and answer sessions, country and site visits, ex officio committee monitored by the Board with support from Board composition.
As mentioned above, the Reputation Committee, which tracks memberships, Your View surveys, focus Directors are now obliged to obtain pregroups, mentoring programmes, talent key indicators across the areas of culture, clearance prior to taking on any additional citizenship, conduct, and customer and client programmes, Diversity and Inclusion commitments, including but not limited to programmes, the Well-being programme, satisfaction on an ongoing basis.
In 2018, directorships, and to indicate in the clearance we built on conversations started at the and workforce change engagement.
request the likely time commitment involved.
AGM to engage in a continual dialogue This will help to ensure that Directors allocate We have an established partnership approach with NGOs and other interest groups, to to industrial relations.
In the UK, we have sufficient time to their role on the Board and improve our understanding of emerging and discharge their responsibilities effectively.
a formal Partnership with Unite which has existing environmental and societal topics.
been in place for over 18 years.
Our code of conduct, The Barclays Throughout the year, we regularly engaged we have a consultation forum European with these stakeholders through participation Way, provides a clear path towards achieving Works Council known as the Barclays Group a dynamic and positive culture within the in forums and round tables and joined European Forum.
Through these partnerships, industry, sector and topic debates and this Barclays Group, outlining our common and at individual country level with local purpose Creating Opportunities to Rise will continue in 2019. recognised trade unions and works councils, and values, which govern our way of we consult regularly on a wide range Remuneration.
The Barclays Way, and Barclays of topics.
the Remuneration Committees terms Purpose and Values, will be reviewed by the of reference, the Remuneration Committee Board annually.
The Board already receives In 2018, an all-colleague Your View survey now has responsibility for reviewing regular reports on the alignment of Barclays was conducted.
The effectiveness of our workforce remuneration and related policies, culture with its purpose, values and strategy, existing colleague engagement mechanisms ensuring the alignment of incentives and but will also start receiving annual thematic was reflected in a 79% sustainable rewards with culture, and ensuring that updates as to workforce policies and their engagement score.
The results of the survey these matters are taken into account when alignment with our purpose, values and were presented to senior management, and considering and approving the remuneration strategy.
To the extent that the Board takes used as one of a number of inputs to inform arrangements of the executive Directors.
any action with regard to culture during the overall colleague engagement and progress It is proposed that the Remuneration course of a year, this will be explained in the with embedding our desired culture.
Committee report to the Board on these relevant Annual Report.
The Barclays Group has established matters in order to further support the Stakeholder engagement.
From next year, mechanisms in place to report to the Board.
Board in satisfying its obligation to assess the annual report will include disclosures as In particular, the Board receives qualitative and and monitor culture.
Next years Annual to how the Directors have discharged their quantitative feedback on matters of interest Report will include an enhanced Directors duty under section 172 of the Companies Act to colleagues through the Culture Dashboard, remuneration report and a summary 2006 and how the interests of customers which measures and tracks our progress in of any discretion that has been exercised and clients, colleagues, suppliers and other embedding the desired culture, talent and in the award of Director remuneration.
stakeholders have informed the Boards succession updates, Diversity and Inclusion decision-making.
updates, periodic engagement updates 88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Board of Directors The Directors present their report together with the The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their biographical details, are set audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018. out on pages 51 and 52 and are incorporated Other information that is relevant to the Directors report, and which is incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to by reference into this report, can be located as follows: Directors during the year are set out below.
Page Effective date of appointment Employee involvement 93 Name Role resignation Mike Turner Non-executive Appointed Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 96 Director 1 January 2018 Financial instruments 283 Mary Anne Non-executive Appointed Citrino Director 25 July 2018 Hedge accounting policy 287 Appointment and retirement of Directors Remuneration policy, including details of the remuneration of each Director The appointment and retirement of Directors and Directors interests in shares 99 is governed by the Companys Articles of Corporate governance report 47 Association the Articles, The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Code, the Risk review 127 Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Viability statement 42 The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the following pages: the power to appoint additional Directors or Page to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director holds office only until the Long-term incentive schemes 110 next AGM and may offer himself herself for Waiver of Director emoluments 123 re-election.
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Allotment for cash of equity securities 326 subject to annual re-election.
All Directors will Waiver of dividends 89 stand for election or re-election at the 2019 AGM with the exception of Reuben Jeffery III and Dambisa Moyo who, having served on the Board for nine years, will both be retiring from the Board at this years AGM.
Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 Shareholders may have their dividends Directors indemnities requires the Directors to present a Strategic reinvested in Barclays by joining the Qualifying third party indemnity provisions report in the Annual Report and Financial Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme as defined by section 234 of the Companies Statements.
The information can be found the Programme.
The Programme enables Act 2006 were in force during the course of on pages 2 to 39. shareholders, if they wish, to receive new the financial year ended 31 December 2018 for fully-paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC the benefit of the then Directors and, at the The Company has chosen, in accordance with instead of a cash dividend, without incurring date of this report, are in force for the benefit section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, dealing costs or stamp duty.
of the Directors in relation to certain losses and as noted in this Directors report, to and liabilities which they may incur or have The nominee company of certain Barclays include certain matters in its Strategic report incurred in connection with their duties, that would otherwise be disclosed in this employee benefit trusts holding shares in powers or office.
In addition, the Company Barclays in connection with the operation Directors report.
maintains Directors & Officers Liability of the Companys share plans has lodged An indication of likely future developments Insurance which gives appropriate cover for evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by may be found in the Strategic report.
legal action brought against its Directors.
it that have not been allocated to employees.
The total amount of dividends waived during The particulars of important events affecting Qualifying pension scheme indemnity the Company since the financial year end can the year ended 31 December 2018 was provisions as defined by section 235 of the 0.85m 2017: 0.68m.
be found in the Strategic report and Note 27, Companies Act 2006 were in force during Legal, competition and regulatory matters.
the course of the financial year ended Barclays understands the importance of 31 December 2018 for the benefit of the then Profit and dividends the ordinary dividend for our shareholders.
Directors, and at the date of this report are in Statutory profit after tax for 2018 was Barclays is therefore committed to maintaining force for the benefit of Directors of Barclays 2,372m 2017: loss 894m.
The 2018 full an appropriate balance between total cash Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee year dividend of 4.0p per share will be paid returns to shareholders, investing in the of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
on 5 April 2019 to shareholders whose names business, and maintaining a strong capital The Directors of the Trustee are indemnified are on the Register of Members at the close position.
Going forward, Barclays intends against liability incurred in connection with of business on 1 March 2019.
With the 2018 to pay an annual ordinary dividend that the Companys activities as Trustee of the half year dividend totalling 2.5p per ordinary takes into account these objectives, and Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
share, paid in September 2018, the total the medium-term earnings outlook of the distribution for 2018 is 6.5p 2017: 3.0p per Barclays Group.
It is also the Boards intention Similarly, qualifying pension scheme ordinary share.
The half year and full year to supplement the ordinary dividends with indemnities were in force during 2018 for dividends for 2018 amounted to 768m additional returns to shareholders as and the benefit of Directors of Barclays Executive 2017: 509m.
Schemes Trustees Limited as Trustee of Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia The Board notes that in determining any Staff Pension Fund 1965, Barclays Capital proposed distributions to shareholders, International Pension Scheme No.
1, and the Board will consider the expectation Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement of servicing more senior securities.
The Directors of the Trustee are indemnified against liability incurred in home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 89 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information connection with the Companys activities as Current Previous Previous Previous reporting reporting reporting reporting Trustee of the schemes above.
a year year year year Political donations 2018 2017 2016 2015 b The Barclays Group did not give any money Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for political purposes in the UK, the rest of the Total CO e tonnes 292,151 344,816 401,340 469,502 2 c EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 25,553 24,779 26,814 29,146 2 political donations to political parties or other d Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 197,365 249,396 307,190 341,978 2 political organisations, or to any independent e Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 69,233 70,641 67,337 98,379 2 election candidates, or incur any political Intensity Ratio expenditure during the year.
Total Full Time Employees FTE 83,500 79,900 119,300 85,800 f In accordance with the US Federal Total CO e per FTE tonnes 3.50 4.32 3.36 5.47 2 d Election Campaign Act, Barclays provides Scope 2 CO e market based emissions tonnes 249,294 297,128 326,201 2 administrative support to a federal Political Notes Action Committee PAC in the US funded a The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September.
The carbon reporting year is not by the voluntary political contributions of fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors report.
The PAC is not controlled b The methodology used to calculate our GHG is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG.
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, defined by the World Resources Institute World Business Council for by Barclays and all decisions regarding the Sustainable Development ERI WBCSD.
We have adopted the operational control approach on reporting amounts and recipients of contributions are boundaries to define our reporting boundary.
Where properties are covered by Barclays consolidated financial directed by a steering committee comprising statements but are leased to tenants, these emissions are not included in the Barclays Group GHG calculations.
employees eligible to contribute to the PAC.
Where Barclays is responsible for the utility costs, these emissions are included.
We continuously review and update our perfomrnce data based on updated carbon emmissions factors, improvements in data quality and updates to Contributions to political organisations estimates previously applied.
For 2019 we have applied the latest DEFRA and IE emmission factors.
Where our reported by the PAC during the calendar performance has changed by more than 1% we have restated the balances and baseline.
On 1 June 2017, we completed the sale of a 33.7% stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited BAGL resulting in a Environment non-controlling position.
In 2017, we restated our CHG emissions through the 2015 baseline to account for this and Barclays focuses on addressing environmental BAGL emissions are not reported from 2015 onwards in order to ensure accurate tracking against our 30% carbon reduction commitment.
In addition, we have restated our Scope 3 emissions to remove erroneous air data which issues where we believe we have the greatest was identified as part of 2018 reporting process.
We focus c Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles from the UK only, which is the most material on managing our own carbon footprint and contributor.
Fugitive emissions reported in Scope 1 cover emissions from the UK, Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe.
d Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use.
Market-based emissions have been reducing our absolute carbon emissions: reported for 2018, 2017 and 2016 only.
developing products and services to help e Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel global flights and ground transport from the UK, USA enable the transition to a low-carbon and India.
USA and India ground transport covers onwards car hire only which has been provided directly by the economy, and managing the risks of climate supplier.
Ground transportation data excluding Scope 1 company cars covers only countries where robust data is available directly from the supplier.
change to our operations, clients, customers f Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location-based emission factors only.
We invest in improving the energy efficiency Research and development On a poll, every member who is present or of our operations and offset the emissions In the ordinary course of business, the represented and who is entitled to vote has remaining through the purchase of carbon Barclays Group develops new products and one vote for every share held.
We also have a long-standing services in each of its business divisions.
of joint holders, only the vote of the senior commitment to managing the environmental holder as determined by order in the share Share capital and social risks associated with our lending register or his her proxy may be counted.
Share capital structure practices, which is embedded into our Credit If any sum payable remains unpaid in The Company has ordinary shares in issue.
A governance structure is in relation to a members shareholding, that The Companys Articles also allow for the place to facilitate clear dialogue across the member is not entitled to vote that share issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen business and with suppliers around issues or exercise any other right in relation to preference shares together, preference of potential environmental and social risk.
a meeting of the Company unless the Board shares.
No preference shares have been otherwise determines.
issued as at 19 February 2019 the latest We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions GHG that we are responsible practicable date for inclusion in this report.
If any member, or any other person appearing Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% to be interested in any of the Companys for as set out by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report of the total issued share capital as at ordinary shares, is served with a notice under Regulations 2013.
We provide fuller disclosure 31 December 2018 and as at 19 February 2019 section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 on i financing solutions for the lower carbon the latest practicable date for inclusion in this and does not supply the Company with the economy, ii environmental risk management report.
information required in the notice, then the and iii management of our carbon and Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct Details of the movement in ordinary share environmental footprint in the Barclays that that member shall not be entitled to capital during the year can be found in Note Environmental Social Governance ESG attend or vote at any meeting of the Company.
Report available on our website at home.
The Board may further direct that if the shares barclays.
We have also Voting of the defaulting member represent 0.25% provided initial disclosures aligned with Every member who is present in person or or more of the issued shares of the relevant the Task Force on Climate-related Financial represented at any general meeting of the class, that dividends or other monies payable Disclosures in the Strategic report and Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one on those shares shall be retained by the ESG report.
Every proxy present Company until the direction ceases to have has one vote.
The proxy will have one vote for effect and that no transfer of those shares and one vote against a resolution if he she shall be registered other than certain has been instructed to vote for or against the specified excepted transfers.
A direction resolution by different members or in one ceases to have effect seven days after the direction by a member while another member Company has received the information has permitted the proxy discretion as to how requested, or when the Company is notified to vote.
that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
