57 Executive Committee Regional Managing Directors The Executive Committee consists of: The Group operates through six geographic housebuilding regions and a commercial division, each of which has a Managing Director as follows: 1 David Thomas 5 Jeremy Hipkiss 7 Doug McLeod 9 Bernard Rooney 11 Chris Burton Chief Executive Officer Group Sales and Marketing Director Regional Managing Director, Scotland Regional Managing Director, Central Regional Managing Director, West See page 59.
Jeremy is responsible for the Groups Doug is responsible for the Groups Bernard is responsible for the Groups Chris is responsible for the Groups overall sales, marketing and customer operations in the Scotland Region which operations in the Central Region which operations in the West Region which experience strategy and delivery.
In addition, he consists of four divisions.
2 Steven Boyes In addition to these responsibilities, Jeremy heads up Barratt Partnerships which is Career and experience Career and experience Deputy Chief Executive and has executive responsibility for IT and responsible for identifying and securing Doug joined the Group in January 1974.
Chris joined the Group in 1985.
ChiefOperating Officer our business improvement programme, public land and partnering opportunities.
Formerly Regional Director of Barratt Formerly Managing Director of Barratt Building Excellence.
Scotland and Managing Director of Career and experience Yorkshire West for 13 years, he was Career and experience Barratt North Scotland, he was appointed Bernard joined the Group in 1981. appointed to his current role in July 2012.
3 Jessica White Jeremy joined the Group in 2008 and to his current role in January 2017.
Formerly Managing Director of Barratt has wide experience in marketing and Newcastle, he was appointed to his 12 Gary Ennis Chief Financial Officer retail operations.
Jeremy held a similar current position in July 2010.
8 Mike Roberts See page 59. role at the Spirit Group.
Prior to that, Regional Managing Director, Jeremy worked for Allied Domecq PLC Regional Managing Director, Northern LondonandSouthern 10 Richard Brooke and Marstons PLC having graduated in 4 Rob Tansey Mike is responsible for the Groups Gary is responsible for the Groups Economics at Leeds University.
Regional Managing Director, East operations in the Northern Region which operations in the London and Southern Group HR Director consists of four divisions.
He is also Richard is responsible for the Region which consists of five divisions.
Rob has responsibility for the Groups 6 Tina Bains responsible for the Groups commercial Groups operations in the East Region human resources strategy including and construction functions.
which consists of seven divisions.
Career and experience Company Secretary recruitment, remuneration and benefits, He is also responsible for the Groups Gary joined the Group in 1995. talent and performance management and Career and experience See page 59. procurement function.
Formerly Managing Director of Barratt training and development programmes.
Mike joined the Group in June 2004.
North London he was appointed Formerly Managing Director of Barratt Career and experience Regional Managing Director for Southern Career and experience North East, he was appointed to his Richard joined the Group in 2007 in January 2006 and of London in Rob joined the Group on 1 August 2012 current role in January 2017. following the acquisition of Wilson October 2016. from Dairy Crest Plc where he was Group Bowden plc, where he was Operations HR Director for six years.
Before joining Director and previously Finance Director 13 Nick Richardson Dairy Crest, Rob was HR Director at Travis for David Wilson Homes Limited.
He was Perkins Plc and previously held senior HR appointed to his current position in Managing Director, roles at Celesio AG and Wickes.
WilsonBowden Developments a member of the CITB Council until Nick is responsible for the commercial December 2017. business, Wilson Bowden Developments.
12 6 Career and experience 1 9 13 11 7 8 4 Nick joined Wilson Bowden plc in 2 1991 and was appointed to his current role in 1999.
Nick joined the Group in 2007 following the acquisition of Wilson Bowden plc.
10 5 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
