25 Priorities and principles in action Customer first KPI Progress in FY18 Objectives The challenge HBF 5 Star homebuilder Only major national housebuilder Continue to deliver high quality homes Britain needs more homes to tobe awarded the maximum HBF 5 and developments address its housing shortage.
Star status fornine consecutive years Use insight gained from customers There is continued demand in Continued investment in our todrive continuous improvement the market, good mortgage customer journey toour policies and procedures availability and an under Further investment in customer Improve the capability of our teams supply of new homes.
service training across the business through training and development Whilst the industry needs Develop automated solutions to toincrease volumes, it must Why we measure improve the speed and consistency maintain customer service ofour service delivery Customer satisfaction is and build quality whilst fundamental to the business.
Create sustainable, energy efficient addressing industry wide HBF Homebuilder survey places to live that satisfy the needs skills challenges.
is an industry recognised, ofcustomers and communities independently measured indicator of our customer service and Strategic priority build quality.
The quality of our homes and our high levels of customer service are key to our ongoing success.
We seek to anticipate our customers evolving needs by continuously improving the homes and places we build.
Image: The Smart family purchased their new home at Oakfield Village, the brand new garden city inspired development in Aylesbury.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 26 Priorities and principles in action continued Customer first We are a 5 Star housebuilder Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is a key performance indicator for our business, it is embedded from site through to divisional and Group Over 90% performance and is reviewed weekly at all levels.
Our focus on high levels of service of our customers would recommend is not only positive for our customers, it usto friends and family provides earnings sustainability, reduces the cost of customer after-sales care and ensures that excellent operational processes are in place.
All of our teams are responsible Understanding our customers for delivering customer satisfaction and we operate a Customer Service Academy We place customers at the heart of comprising both classroom and online everything we do and the first stage training to ensure that our employees ofthis is to get detailed understanding understand how to deliver right first time, oftheir requirements.
To support this, every time.
wehave developed a rigorous programme ofresearch to gather insight at every stage In 2018, we achieved the maximum HBF of our customer journey.
This provides 5 Star homebuilder award for the ninth insight into our marketing, sales, customer consecutive year which means that over service, product design and development 90% of our customers would recommend layouts.
We are committed to acting on our us to friends and family.
We are focused customers feedback to drive improvements on notonly maintaining this award for the th and inform decision making, to ensure we 10 consecutive year in 2019, but continue are responding to our customer needs and to drive further improvements through positioning the business going forward.
the business by developing automated, streamlined processes and refining our We also undertake extensive local market quality control inspections.
research when we buy land and have dedicated, local specialists to ensure we Best in class are building the right houses in the right We know that our people are key to areas for our customers.
We are focused providing an excellent customer service on providing appropriate infrastructure and experience.
We therefore continue to invest facilities to satisfy customer needs, so we in training and development programmes are building homes which our customers for our Construction, Sales & Marketing want to buy and are satisfied with once and Customer Care teams to ensure they they move in.
This increases our business remain best in class.
We have also continued resilience as we are building the right homes our relationship with the NHBC to deliver a and developments for our customers of joint training initiative for our Customer Care the future.
We place customers at the teams which ensures that any issues which occur after customers move in are dealt with heart of everything we do.
All of as quickly and efficiently as possible.
Stuart Skeet and Mittra Monteiro with site manager Ben Davis our teams are responsible for at our White Horse View site in Westbury.
The couple were delighted with the service they received, Barratt is a 5 Star delivering customer satisfaction.
housebuilder, so we knew we were in good hands but the service we have received has been truly exceptional.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 27 Energy efficiency Building the right homes and To increase energy efficiency, reduce developments for our customers carbon emissions and lower energy costs for our customers, we follow a Fairfields, Milton Keynes fabric first approach to building design which maximises the performance of the Fairfields is located on the North-West components and materials that make up side of Milton Keynes, offering a full market the building fabric itself, before considering mix of houses ranging from one to five bed the use of mechanical or electrical building homes.
Situated close to the market town of services systems.
A fabric first approach Stony Stratford and a short drive away from includes higher levels of insulation, higher central Milton Keynes.
Fairfields has great performing windows and doors, increased accessibility to major towns and cities from air tightness and maximising passive the train station, is close to major road links solar gains.
We continue to review and and is located in an area where the supply of apply new technologies that help deliver new homes are desperately needed over the energy efficiency such as waste water medium term.
heat recovery, improved insulation around Addressing local needs windows and doors and energy efficient boilers.
As a result, 98% of our standard Ideal for families and first time buyers housetype range currently in use are A wide range of amenities at nearby designed with the intention to meet an EPC Stony Stratford rating of B or above when constructed.
This makes them eligible for the Barclays New Fairfields Primary School open Green Home Mortgage product, introduced Providing extensive local infrastructure during this year to provide an interest rate discount and additional incentive Accessibility for customers to purchase an energy efficient home.
When customers occupy 5 airports within a 90 minute drive their new homes they receive a guide to its sustainability features.
Easy access to the M1 and the A5 All these measures we are undertaking Central London in 33 minutes via rail are not only helping us safeguard the environment but are also positive for the customer in reducing their ongoing energy costs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
