12 How we create and preserve value Our business model encompasses our vision and focuses on delivering value across the housebuilding value chain, creating sustainable returns for shareholders and making a positive difference in the communities in which we operate.
Critical inputs What we do Long term sustainable value We have certain critical resources and We create long term value for our 2 relationships we need to manage and maintain stakeholders.
1 to ensure our business model can be run Targeted land Total shareholder returns efficiently.
These inputs are controlled through buying and T wo and a half times ordinary our implementation of both our strategy and effective planning dividend cover.
S pecial cash payment programme in the Financial capital five year period to November 2019.
Our people 3 I n total 1.9bn Capital Return Plan Local government and engagement toNovember 2019.
Landowner engagement 5 2 Customers and society Availability of building materials Industry Outstanding Quality homes and customer care.
Mortgage availability and affordability leading customer design experience Contractors Local investment in infrastructure Our Vision: Our vision is to lead the future andregeneration.
Community relations of housebuilding by putting Job creation and skills enhancement.
customers at the heart of Taxation revenues.
Strategic priorities and principles This defines our actions and behaviours, developing the way we do business.
The model is underpinned by our strategic priorities of Customer first, Great places, Leading construction and Investing in our people and supported by our set of principles and financial discipline see pages 23 to 47 for more details.
Our six key sustainability issues that matter most 3 1 4 to our stakeholders are integrated into the way Construction we work.
We focus on delivering value across the Innovative sales excellence, housebuilding value chain, creating sustainable 1 S ee sustainability section on our website and marketing innovation www.
co. uk sustainability value for our shareholders and by making a and efficiency our-publications.
positive difference in the communities in which 2 T he Board take the impact on key stakeholders into account when making decisions, for more information we operate.
We believe collectively these define please see pages 70 to 73. our business and help make Barratt different.
3 See page 22 for further details.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 13 1 2 3 4 5 Targeted land Construction Industry leading Outstanding Innovative sales excellence, buying and customer design and marketing effective planning innovation experience and efficiency What we do What we do What we do What we do What we do We purchase land in targeted locations We design outstanding homes We build quality homes efficiently, with We constantly innovate our sales and We focus on maintaining the very which at least meet our hurdle rates and places for our customers, centralised procurement and sharing marketing methods to customers highest levels of quality seeking and enable us to satisfy the needs of our using standard house designs.
of best practice, whilst ensuring and invest in IT to help deliver strong to understand customer needs customers and communities.
We work Through customer research we high standards of health and safety.
and provide a first class customer closely with local communities and continually strive to innovate and Our experienced teams help ensure experience throughout the home We have strong, well-recognised authorities to deliver effective planning develop these designs.
efficient delivery of our developments and buying process.
brands Barratt Homes, David Wilson permissions that enable us to create continue to work with our suppliers to This means our high quality products Homes and Barratt London that have We are the only major national sustainable places for our customers develop and test various forms of offsite are well designed to fit our customers carefully defined market positions.
housebuilder to achieve the maximum to live.
and modern methods of construction.
lifestyles with developments that 5 Star HBF rating for customer The value this creates Our capability to deliver developments enhance the local community, with our We have long standing relationships with satisfaction for nine consecutive years.
Good sales rates and revenues of all levels of complexity from standard aim that all new developments achieve material suppliers which are centrally The value this creates delivering improved returns.
housing to large and highly complex our Great Places Silver rating by 2020. contracted, managing our cost base and Improved revenues and efficiency London schemes and successful ensuring continuity of supply.
We also Efficient sales process enhances the The value this creates through reduced remedial costs.
JV partnerships, along with our have strong, long standing relationships customer journey from reservation Ability to achieve the best possible geographical portfolio, means we can with local sub-contractors.
Customers who are satisfied with through to completion.
prices for the quality homes we sell manage risk through our diversity.
their new homes and who would Training and development The value this creates anddrive returns.
recommend us to their friends and The value this creates programmes for our Construction, Improving return on capital employed Successful development enhances families, generating further sales.
Sales & Marketing and Customer through capital efficiency.
Improve operating margin over the local relationships and reputation, Sustainable brand recognition and Care teams to ensure they remain medium term, increasing returns Security of materials and helping source future sites, obtain trusted reputation.
for our shareholders and generating sub-contractor supply.
effective planning permissions, taxation revenues.
The associated risks Improving the speed and consistency The associated risks community support and customers.
Delivery of quality housing to help of our service delivery.
Positive legacy for local communities D E J A D J address Britains housing shortage.
High standards of health and safety.
bybuilding great places to live.
Investment in local facilities Job creation and support.
Efficient house design reduces and infrastructure resulting energy consumption and helps to Helping address the construction from development.
provide amore sustainable future industry skills shortage through Regeneration of brownfield sites.
for our customers and lower carbon employing and training apprentices emissions over the lifetime of the and graduates and improving the The associated risks homes we build.
Key A B C D F H J The associated risks The associated risks Economic environment, including housing A demand and mortgage availability D F G I J A B D E G H I J B Land availability C Availability of finance and working capital Attracting and retaining D high-calibre employees Availability of raw materials, E sub-contractors and suppliers F Government regulation and planning policy G Construction H Joint ventures and consortia I Safety, health and environmental J IT 1 A ll the associated risks are discussed in greater detail in the Risk management section on pages 48 to 56.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
