29 Priorities and principles in action continued Great places KPI Progress in 2018 Objectives The challenge Owned and controlled land bank Land market remained attractive Maintain a regionally balanced land The future of our business throughout FY18 portfolio with a supply of owned land depends upon securing the of c. 3.5 years and a further c. 1.0 year 4.8 years Detailed or outline planning of controlled land right land in areas where 2017: 4.5 years permission onallof our FY19 quality homes are most expected completions and93.7% Continued roll-out of the new housing needed whilst exceeding our ofFY20 expected completions product ranges across the country Land approved for purchase investment hurdle rates.
plots Increased proportion of completions Medium term target to increase the 24,387 from strategic land percentage of completions from 21,478 20,951 18,497 strategic land to 30% 16,956 Strategic priority Roll-out of our new housing ranges underway Continue to be recognised for Our priority is building long designing great places which enhance term relationships to secure local communities.
All completed 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 good value land and planning developments to achieve our Great consents where people Places Silver rating by 2020 Target aspire to live.
We design Seek to create a net positive impact developments which look 20,000 plots approved on biodiversity and ecology across all for purchase great, are a pleasure to new developments where there is no live on, and will enhance prior planning permission from 2020 local communities foryears Status: Achieved to come.
Why we measure Monitors that the Group is approving an appropriate amount of land for purchase to support future business activity.
Ensure land is approved at minimum hurdle rates.
Image: Marston Fields is a development of three, four and five bedroom homes in the village of Marston Moretaine near to Milton Keynes which has excellent transport links.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 30 Priorities and principles in action continued Great places areas where we want to build and approved all of our expected completions in FY19 and Securing land Placemaking principles are the purchase of another 579 strategic 93.7% of expected completions in FY20.
We continue to see high quality land fundamental to our business: gross acres in FY18.
In the year, 2,788 plots opportunities across the country.
We have Designing great places 2017: 6,757 plots were transferred from our customers want to live in highly specialised divisional land teams strategic land to our owned land bank Placemaking principles are fundamental with extensive local knowledge and great places, and the vendors and 27% of our completions 2017: 25% to our business: our customers want to strong relationships with landowners.
during the year werefrom strategically live in great places, the vendors of the land of the land we purchase want This combined with detailed research into sourced land.
wepurchase want to work with developers local market conditions means we are to work with developers who who leave behind a positive legacy of design We use land creditors to defer payments able to secure land, which can drive higher quality and local people want developments leave behind a positive legacy for land acquisitions where appropriate to returns for our business.
We target locations that enhance their communities.
drive ahigher ROCE and as at 30 June 2018, where we can provide housing the local ofdesign quality.
the land creditor position totalled 996.7m We are focused on placemaking throughout communities desperately need, with good 30 June 2017: 1,064.0m representing 34% our business and use our internal Great access to transport and local amenities.
ROCE on completed 30 June 2017: 37% of the owned land bank.
Places design standards, assessing every This ensures strong customer demand for At 30 June 2019, we expect this to be between development against these at the preour developments going forward.
Our land sites acquired since 2009 30-35% of the owned land bank, however, we application stage.
These design standards buying also reflects Government policy seek to reduce this further and target 25-30% are aligned with Government endorsed towards affordable housing and firstof the owned land bank in the medium term.
standards for creating well designed time buyers.
residential places and we run annual awards 34.7% Effective planning permission We continue to target a regionally balanced to recognise our best developments.
land portfolio with a supply of owned land 2017: 35.7% Bringing land through the planning system Our approach goes far beyond the design of c. 3.5 years and a further c. 1.0 year of quickly and into production is important to of individual homes.
We consider how controlled land.
At 30 June 2018, we achieved support our business objectives.
The new each development will reflect and enhance this target with a 4.8 years land supply NPPF published in July provides confidence the character of the local area and how Acres of strategic land excluding JVs comprising 3.7 years owned that the planning system will continue to houses relate to the surrounding spaces land and 1.1 years controlled land, with the provide a strong supply of consented units within and beyond the development.
owned land bank including land with both into the land market.
In particular, the We consider how communities will function outline and detailed planning consents.
Housing Delivery Test and new standardised 12,435 at our developments and the long term approach assessing housing needs will drive Land approved for purchase environmental, social and economic impacts up the levels of planning consents in some 2017: 11,737 Year ended Year ended of the way people live.
We review our strong market areas where housing delivery 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 development layouts to ensure they achieve has to date been restricted due to a low Total 933.9m 957.2m both design quality and efficient land use, land supply.
and have an internal Urban Design team to Total plots 20,951 18,497 However, whilst the increasing supply of provide specialist expertise.
During the year consented land is positive it often takes too we completed our market research amongst In FY18, we approved the purchase of 20,951 long after planning consent is granted to customers and stakeholders on two of our plots, up 13.3% on the prior year.
This reflects discharge the planning conditions to enable developments to understand the impact the excellent land opportunities we are building to start.
We are hopeful that recent of our placemaking capability.
The output seeing across the country and is supportive and forthcoming regulations on this matter demonstrated the significant positive impact of our ambitions of disciplined volume growth will assist.
this has on the perception of our brands and over the medium term.
We have maintained good momentum in We continue to increase our proportion of achieving planning consents and during the We have recruited an in-house Group completions from higher margin strategic year we secured planning on 16,997 plots Ecology and Biodiversity Manager to help land and are targeting 30% of completions in 2017: 19,861 plots.
We now have detailed us further embed positive engagement and the medium term.
We continue to see many oroutline planning permission in place for consistent good practice approaches across high quality strategic opportunities in the the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 31 We continue to roll out the new housing New housing ranges ranges across the business with the new Enhancing biodiversity on site In 2016, the Group undertook a review Barratt range now planned for 187 2017: 132 of its Barratt and David Wilson housing sites across the country and we currently with hundreds of metres of new hedging Kingsbrook ranges.
The new ranges maintain our high have 101 2017:51 sites under construction.
and there is bat-friendly street lighting.
standards of design whilst being faster to Enhancing biodiversity is important to The planned roll-out of the new product The first roadside verges have also been build, help us reduce build cost and waste us in both protecting our environment ranges will increasingly benefit margin planted, but not with conventional grass, and are more suitable to modern methods for future generations and in creating going forward.
instead with native wild flowers for bees ofconstruction.
Improvements to the designs Great Places to live for our customers and butterflies.
include simplifying build by removing bay today.
Kingsbrook in Buckinghamshire There are green corridors which extend windows and lightboxes from the majority is one development where we are actively Our land bank through the developments, together of our Barratt homes as well as reducing working with the RSPB to enhance 30 June 30 June with hedgehog highways so that wildlife, roof pitches.
We have also increased biodiversity on site.
Its also one of our 2018 2017 including frogs and newts, can move from standardisation across the Group in terms of largest developments, due to deliver Owned and unconditional garden to garden with ease.
We have also components such as front doors and window some 2,450 homes over ten years centred 61,504 58,965 landbank plots installed 45 newly designed swift nesting frames.
These changes have minimal impact around three villages.
In and around the boxes in homes in FY18 to help conserve to the customer experience but significantly Conditionally contracted first village, Oakfield, installation of wildlife 17,928 16,078 landbank plots this species, numbers of which have halved increase build efficiencies, both in terms friendly features is well underway.
in 20 years, as they return to the UK to of material and labour costs.
We have also Owned and controlled Hundreds of native trees have been planted 79,432 75,043 breed every summer.
significantly reduced the number of different land bank plots as well as the first community orchard for housetypes for both our Barratt and David the development.
The roadsides are lined Number of years supply Wilson brands.
based upon completions in the 4.8 years 4.5 years financial year Another benefit of the new housing ranges is that they are easier to plot, and we also JV owned and controlled 5,137 5,709 released new plotting guides with the launch landbank plots of the product.
This means we are able to Strategic land acres 12,435 11,737 plot on our sites more efficiently and have specific occasional housetypes for unusual Land bank carrying value 2,963.4m 2,895.6m plots such as corners or end of terrace.
We are now able to build more houses per acre without compromising the development by overcrowded housing or unsightly street scenes.
Urban Design considerations have also been considered to provide housetypes that account for all site situations, ensuring Great Places can always be achieved.
The new range is being well received by customers and contractors alike.
Customers are positive about new design features, such as more open-plan living areas, whilst contractors like the simpler designs and footprints as they are less complex, making them easier and quicker to build.
The Igloo Hedgehog House provides hedgehogs and other mammals with a safe haven as a covered feeding station or place to hibernate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
