33 Priorities and principles in action continued Leading construction KPI Progress in FY18 Objectives The challenge Total completions including joint Focused on a right first time Modest growth in wholly owned ventures units The housing shortage has approach todrive operating efficiency completion volumes increased demand for new Long term relationships with Continue to lead the industry homes, which has resulted 17,579 suppliers andsub-contractors insite management in pressures upon the 2017: 17,395 Trialling and implementing new 20% of units using offsite construction availability ofmaterials construction methods Large Format techniques by 2020 and continue to and skilled labour Target Block, Light Steel Gauge Frames develop and trial modern methods andsubcontractors.
and increasing production with of construction Disciplined growth in timber frame completion volumes Maintain and develop sustained Reduced construction waste intensity businesspartnerships with suppliers Strategic priority to 6.06tonnes per 100 sq.
m. andsub-contractors Status: Achieved We deliver the highest areduction of 1.9% To reduce construction waste quality homes by focusing Why we measure 97% of waste diverted from landfill intensity tonnes per 100 sq.
m. on excellence across all 2017: 95% build by 20% by 2025 compared Reflects activity and growth aspects of construction.
We are embracing new Reduce carbon intensity from our Method by which business methods of onsite and offsite construction operations, sites and capacity is monitored.
construction to increase offices, and business mileage by 10% build efficiency.
by 2025 compared toFY15 baseline Image: We have developed an offsite garage solution with our partner Tarmac and have successfully piloted on two sites.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 34 Priorities and principles in action continued Leading construction skills we need.
Well managed sites also We put customer satisfaction keep people safe, the number one priority at the heart of our forthe business.
construction processes with Innovating to improve efficiency a focus on getting it right The need to build more homes more efficiently in Britain requires innovative first time, which also drives approaches that enable us to respond to operating efficiencies in the skills and materials shortages, maintain safe working environments and continue build process.
We need to to produce high quality homes for our increase build efficiency while customers, whilst delivering returns for our investors.
maintaining safety and quality Technologies new to Barratt go through standards and responding to a rigorous New Product Introduction skills shortages.
testing and analysis process before full implementation.
Studies are conducted with a number of key stakeholders including the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards NHBC, BBA, TRADA and UK Finance, who for our site managers for 2018 add a further level of analysis, factoring in any Henry Patecki, winner of the National Supreme Award in the Large Builder category in FY18.
implications for mortgages, insurance and customer satisfaction.
The new housing ranges have also been Waste and resource efficiency designed to allow for greater integration 83 We remain focused on helping to address It is important that we continue to focus on with modern methods of construction.
the skills shortage facing the industry and our waste and resource efficiencies from The advantages here, among others, include 2017: 74 one way in which we are doing this is through an environmental and social responsibility certainty of programme, build quality, continuing to invest in trials for modern perspective, however, it is also beneficial to reduction of waste and speed of build.
During the year, the business in reducing costs and addressing wehave taken our pilot trials of Large Format Delivering high quality homes The drawings and plans for the Barratt range materials shortages.
As a growing industry Block, Light Gauge Steel Frame and Offsite of homes have been completely transferred the demands on materials are high and any We remain focused on delivering high quality Insulated Ground Floors and applied them to to new cutting edge software to support reduction in waste material can help reduce homes from well managed sites and continue a number of sites across our Group.
In FY18, our push towards intelligent drawings and these demands.
to lead the industry, winning 83 2017: 74 we delivered over 1,900 units using modern Business Information Modelling.
The new NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This is the Barratt has successfully reversed a trend methods of construction including timber th software will allow our drawings to have 14 consecutive year that we have won more in rising construction waste intensity frame.
These methods are more efficient functionality which can support easier of these awards than any other housebuilder, theamount we create for each 100 sq.
m. toput together than traditional construction management of drawings and more detail making us the clear industry leader in site built onconstruction sites.
This has been methods, reduce our reliance on certain subon site.
Furthermore, the site manager achieved through prioritising waste tonnage contractor trades and allow consistent flow at our Forest Chase, Leicester development, We are constantly engaging with our reduction, in partnership with our waste of delivery.
We continually assess innovative Henry Patecki, was awarded the coveted suppliers to find, understand and consider management contractor, and identifying ways construction methods and successful trials National Supreme Award in the Large innovative products and services that can to design out waste, in addition to continued have continued on two sites delivering Builder category in FY18.
Delivering high be used to increase our efficiency on site rigour on waste segregation and recycling.
offsite garages with our partner Tarmac.
quality homes is a key priority for business whilst still maintaining our high quality and A roll out of this innovative offsite garage By being more efficient in skip utilisation and resilience going forward in attracting customer satisfaction requirements.
solution both by us and the broader industry segregation, we have increased our diversion ongoing customer demand for our homes.
would significantly help reduce demand on of waste from landfill to 97% 2017: 95%, Meanwhile contractors prefer to work on bricklayers in short supply.
well managed sites, helping us attract the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 35 and construction waste intensity continues Partnering with our supply chain tofall this year to 6.06 tonnes per 100 sq.
m. Improving safety and designing out waste through innovative We have a centralised procurement team a 1.9% reduction and 14.5% reduction stairwell protection which has built long term relationships compared to baseline in FY15.
Our plan with our suppliers.
Managing and building isfocused on standardisation to design out The Wellsafe system brings health and After challenging our suppliers to develop long term, successful partnerships are waste, employee engagement particularly safety benefits in terms of providing a new means to protect stairwells we essential in a growing industry which has commercial and site construction teams, safe platform which covers the stairwell tested prototypes for two of the best in a continued demand pressures on certain andsupplier engagement.
factory environment, ensuring they could materials and in ensuring security of supply.
This gap is traditionally covered by what meet loading and design requirements.
Our multi-functional waste reduction project Working closely with our suppliers also are known as sacrificial joists to form Trials then took place with both Barratt and team, sponsored by our Chief Operating ensures the consistency of specification and a temporary section of the first floor.
our suppliers ensuring the systems were Officer, drives progress quarterly.
Given our technical performance of the materials used The system removes the risk of falls optimised.
Staircrafts Wellsafe system early achievement of our 2020 target last year in our homes.
We also use many local subwhilst sacrificial joists are removed, was chosen as the preferred solution.
we have set a new target to reduce our waste contractors in the construction of our homes, reduces waste and provides a surface on intensity on FY15 levels, by 20% by 2025. with whom our divisions partner at a local In FY18, the Wellsafe system has been which loads can be imposed, such as fall level to ensure the availability of the skilled used to complete 493 homes, avoiding We continue to action findings from our 2016 protection whilst installing roof trusses.
Further details on how 35.5 tonnes of timber waste from waste analysis study at Saxon Gate, near York, we are focused on being a Trusted Partner When the staircase is fitted, these joists are sacrificial joists.
including reinforcing efficient installation can be found in Our Principles on page 41. removed and disposed of which amounts of insulation, improving kitchen design to around 72 kg of timber waste for the specifications, and reducing wasted timber Our non-financial KPI to achieve HBF average three bedroom home.
joists through the use of a reusable stairwell maximum 5 Star customer satisfaction is protection system across seven divisions.
consistent with our commitment to achieving We have undertaken workshops with our the highest legal and ethical standards.
suppliers to identify priorities for reducing It is our policy to conduct business in a fair, lightweight mixed packaging waste and have honest and open way, without the use of trialled the removal of plastic wrapping from bribery or corrupt practices to obtain an timber trusses over the summer months.
All employees are required to undertake training on these matters.
Estimated waste savings Waste reduction project FY17 FY18 Plasterboard sized to reduce off-cuts tonnes 487 621 Pallets salvaged and re-used number 232,911 251,406 Paint tin recycling number 11,134 15,193 Construction waste intensity tonnes per 100 sq.
m. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 2025 Target Waste intensity 7.09 7.11 6.18 6.06 5.67 Construction waste diversion from landfill % FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Ongoing Target Diversion from landfill 95 95 95 97 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
