112 Other statutory disclosures Directors Report withhold payment of all or any part of any our approach to diversity and details The Groups financial assets, financial dividends or other monies payable in respect of diversity within the Group page 39 : liabilities and derivative financial instruments The Directors Report for the financial year of the Companys shares from a person with our employee engagement page 37 : an are detailed in sections 3 and 5 within the ended 30 June 2018 comprises pages 57 a 0.25% interest if such person has been indication of likely future developments in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Details of to 118 inclusive, together with the sections served with a restriction notice after failure Group including in the field of research and the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and incorporated by reference.
Any matters on to provide the Company with information development page 34 and the Groups risk cash flow risks are set out in note 5.5 to the which the Directors are required to report on concerning interests in those shares required management pages 48 to 56.
annually, but which do not appear in any other to be provided under the Act.
The Company has also published its section of this report are detailed below.
Annual General Meeting statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Results and dividends Act 2015, detailing the steps the Group is The 2018 AGM will be held at The Royal Activities of the Group taking to mitigate the risk of modern slavery The profit from continuing activities for College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews The Company is the holding company of occurring in its supply chain and business the year ended 30 June 2018 was 671.5m Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE the Group.
The Groups principal activities operations.
on Wednesday, 17 October 2018 at 11 a. m. comprise acquiring and developing land, to key teams and supply chain partners in The notice convening the 2018 AGM is set out An interim dividend of 8.6 pence per planning, designing and constructing order to build awareness and strengthen due in a separate letter to shareholders.
residential property developments and share was paid on 18 May 2018 to those diligence processes, including participation shareholders on the register as at close of selling the homes it builds throughout in the Supply Chain Sustainability Schools Directors and their interests Britain.
These core activities are supported business on 20 April 2018 2017: 7.3 pence special interest group on Modern Slavery per share.
The Directors recommend the by the Groups commercial development, Details of the Directors who held office Act 2015.
This statement can be found urban regeneration, procurement, design payment of a final dividend of 17.9 pence per during the financial year ending 30 June 2018 at www.
co. uk share 2017: 17.1 pence per share in respect andstrategic land capabilities.
and as at the date of this report can be found sustainability our-policies.
of the financial year ended 30 June 2018. on pages 58 and 59.
The Company has also published its Dividends and distributions The Directors also recommend the payment The beneficial interests of the Directors and first Gender Pay Gap Report in line of a special dividend of 17.3 pence per share connected persons in the ordinary share Subject to the provisions of the Act, the with the Equality Act 2010 Gender 2017: 17.3 pence per share under the Capital capital of the Company, together with the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from Pay Gap Information Regulations Return Plan see page 47 for further details.
interests of the Executive Directors in share time to time declare dividends for payment 2017.
The full report can be found at options and awards of shares as at 30 June to the holders of the ordinary shares of 10 www.
co. uk Both the final dividend and the special 2018, and as at the date of this report are pence each, of an amount which does not dividend will, subject to shareholder approval sustainability our-publications and disclosed in the Remuneration report on exceed the amount recommended by the a summary is provided in the Strategic at the 2018 AGM, be paid on 6 November pages 105 to 108.
Taking into account current market 2018 to those shareholders on the register report on pages 39. and shareholder expectations, our dividend at the close of business on 12 October 2018.
At no time during or at the end of the year In addition, details of the Companys policy is to pay a full year dividend covered If approved, the total dividend including the did any Director have a material interest in approach to dealing with environmental 2.5 times by earnings as well as special special dividend for FY18 is 43.8 pence per a contract of significance in relation to the issues in its operations and the impact of dividends when the financial position of the share 2017: 41.7 pence per share.
and management of risks associated with Company justifies the payment, subject to environmental, social and governance shareholder approval.
The Board may pay Strategic Report matters are contained in the Strategic interim dividends, and also any fixed rate Report on pages 48 to 56 in addition to being The Groups Strategic Report is set out on dividends, whenever the financial position found in the sustainability section of the pages 1 to 56 of this Annual Report and of the Company justify their payment in the Companys website.
Accounts and contains certain disclosures opinion of the Board.
If the Board acts in required to be contained in the Directors good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares Report as follows: details of the Groups with preferred or pari passu rights for losses greenhouse gas emissions page 43 : arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board may Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 113 Appointment and removal of Directors Powers of the Directors Related party transactions Political donations and expenditure In accordance with the Articles there shall Subject to the Articles, the Act and any The Board and certain members of Senior Our policy is that the Group will not make be no less than two and no more than 15 directions given by special resolution, the Management are related parties within the donations to any political party and no Directors appointed to the Board at any business of the Company is ultimately definition of IAS 24 Revised Related Party political donations or expenditure were made one time.
Directors may be appointed by managed by the Board who may exercise Disclosures IAS 24 and the Board are or incurred during the year.
the Company by ordinary resolution or by all the powers of the Company, whether related parties within the definition of Chapter Offices the Board.
The Board may from time to relating to the management of the business 11 of the UK Listing Rules Chapter 11. time appoint one or more Directors to hold of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, There is no difference between transactions The Group had 27 offices excluding those employment or executive office for such the Board may exercise all the powers of the with key personnel of the Company and offices undertaking an administrative period subject to the Act and on such Company to borrow money and to mortgage transactions with key personnel of the Group.
function only located throughout Britain terms as they may determine and may or charge any of its undertakings, property, at the end of the financial year.
The Group During the year, the Group did not enter into revoke or terminate any such appointment.
assets and uncalled capital and to issue also has a representative office in Beijing any transactions which, for the purposes Directors are not subject to a maximum debentures and other securities and to give and Shanghai, China.
A full list of the of IAS 24, is considered to be a related age limit.
security for any debt, liability or obligation of Groups offices and their locations can be party transaction.
the Company to any third party.
obtained from the Company Secretary at In addition to the power under the Act for No related party transactions that require the Companys registered office or from its shareholders to remove any Director by disclosure, have been entered into during the Qualifying third party indemnity website www.
ordinary resolution upon the giving of special year under review.
notice, under the Articles the Company may, provisions by special resolution, remove any Director At the date of this Annual Report and Disclosure of information to auditor before the expiration of their term of office.
Accounts, there are qualifying third party The office of Director shall be vacated if: So far as each of the Directors is aware, indemnity provisions governed by the i they resign or offer to resign and the there is no relevant audit information that is, Act which are or were in place during the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii their information needed by the Companys auditor financial year, under which the Company has resignation is requested by all of the other in connection with preparing its report of agreed to indemnify the Directors, former Directors and all of the other Directors which the Companys auditor is not aware.
Directors and the Company Secretary, are not less than three in number: iii they together with those who have held or hold Each Director has taken all reasonable are or have been suffering from mental or these positions as officers of other Group steps that they ought to have taken in physical ill health: iv they are absent without companies or of associate or affiliated accordance with their duty as a Director to permission of the Board from meetings of companies and members of the Executive make themselves aware of any relevant audit the Board for six consecutive months and the Committee, to the extent permitted by law information and to ensure that the Companys Board resolves that their office is vacated: and the Articles, against all liability arising in auditor is aware of that information.
v they become bankrupt or compound respect of any act or omission in the course This confirmation is given and should be with their creditors generally: vi they are of performing their duties.
In addition, the interpreted in accordance with the provisions prohibited by law from being a Director: vii Company maintains directors and officers of section 418 2 of the Act.
they cease to be a Director by virtue of the liability insurance for each Director of the Act: or viii they are removed from office Group and its associated companies.
No Director of the Company or of any Details relating to the retirement, election associated company shall be accountable to and re-election of Directors at each AGM can the Company or the members for any benefit be found in the Nomination Committee report provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt on pages 76 and 77. of any such benefit shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director of the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 114 Other statutory disclosures continued Capital structure Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that No member shall be entitled to vote at any require: ii is in respect of only one class rights attached to any existing class of shares general meeting or class meeting in respect of share: iii if joint transferees, is in favour The Company has a single class of share may be varied either with the written consent of any shares held by them if any call or of not more than four such transferees: capital which is divided into ordinary shares of the holders of not less than three-fourths other sum then payable by them in respect or iv where the transfer is requested by of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are in in nominal value of the issued shares of of that share remains unpaid or if they have a person with a 0.25% interest as defined registered form and are fully paid.
Details of that class excluding any shares of that been served with a restriction notice as in the Articles if such a person has been the Companys issued share capital and of class held as treasury shares, or with the defined in the Articles after failure to provide served with a restriction notice after failure the movements in the share capital during sanction of a special resolution passed at the Company with information concerning to provide the Company with information the year can be found in note 5.6 to the a separate general meeting of the holders interests in those shares required to be concerning interests in those shares required Financial Statements on page 162.
Subject to of those shares.
The rights conferred upon provided under the Act.
to be provided under the Act, unless the the Articles, the Act and other shareholders the holders of any shares shall not, unless transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant rights, shares are at the disposal of the otherwise expressly provided in the rights to an arms length sale as defined in Transfer of shares Board.
At each AGM the Board seeks attaching to those shares, be deemed to be the Articles.
authorisation from its shareholders to allot Shares in the Company may be in varied by the creation or issue of further There are no special control rights in relation shares.
At the AGM held on 15 November uncertificated or certificated form.
Title to shares ranking pari passu with them.
to the Companys shares and the Company 2017, the Directors were given authority uncertificated shares may be transferred by is not aware of any agreements between to allot shares up to a nominal value of means of a relevant system and certificated Voting holders of securities that may result in 33,669,173 representing one-third of the shares may be transferred by an instrument restrictions on the transfer of securities.
nominal value of the Companys issued Subject to any special terms as to voting upon of transfer as approved by the Board.
share capital as at 30 September 2017, such any shares which may be issued or may at the The transferor of a share is deemed to authority to remain valid until the end of relevant time be held, every member present remain the holder until the transferees Shareholder authority for purchase the 2019 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of in person or by proxy at a general meeting or name is entered into the Companys register ofown shares business on 15 February 2019.
A resolution to class meeting has one vote upon a show of of members.
At the Companys AGM held on 15 November renew this authority will be proposed at the hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every There are no restrictions on the transfer of 2017, shareholders gave authority to the 2018 AGM.
share of which such member is a holder.
The Board may, Company to buy back up to an aggregate of In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote in its absolute discretion and without giving 101,007,520 ordinary shares representing of the senior who tenders a vote, whether Rights and obligations attaching any reason, decline to register any transfer 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
in person or by proxy, shall be accepted toshares of any share which is not a fully paid share.
This authority is valid until the end of the to the exclusion of votes of the other joint Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated Subject to any rights attached to existing 2018 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of holders and seniority shall be determined share may be refused in the circumstances business on 15 February 2019.
Under the shares, shares may be issued with such by the order in which the names stand in the set out in the uncertificated securities rules rights and restrictions as the Company may authority there is a minimum and maximum register in respect of the joint holding.
as defined in the Articles and where, in the price to be paid for such shares.
Any shares by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no In accordance with the Act, each member case of a transfer to joint holders, the number such resolution or so far as it does not make which are bought back may be held as is entitled to appoint one or more proxies, of joint holders to whom the uncertificated treasury shares or, if not so held, will be specific provision as the Board may decide.
and in the case of corporations, more than share is to be transferred exceeds four.
cancelled immediately upon completion of the one corporate representative to exercise all purchase, thereby reducing the Companys The Board may decline to register a transfer or any of their rights to attend, speak and issued share capital.
of a certificated share unless the instrument vote on their behalf at a general meeting or of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified No purchases had been made under this class meeting.
The timescales for appointing or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of authority as at the date of this Annual Report proxies are set out in the Notice of the the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and Accounts.
and is accompanied by the relevant share authority will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 115 Shareholder arrangements Employment policy and involvement an online engagement survey each year.
gain first-hand experience of employees The results of this survey are fed back aspirations and concerns.
towaivedividends i Employment and diversity to each operating division who use the iv Future talent The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit results to formulate plans for maintaining The Group is committed to seeking to Trust the EBT holds ordinary shares in the or improving engagement in the following We continue to develop our ASPIRE graduate develop the talents of its employees Company for the purpose of satisfying options year.
We continue to report high levels of scheme, and run a commercial sponsored so that they can maximise their career and awards that have been granted under the engagement, with scores remaining within degree in partnership with Sheffield potential and to providing rewarding various employee share schemes operated the top quartile of IBMs database this year at careers in an atmosphere that engenders Hallam University and our Apprentice by the Company.
We continue to offer a diverse equal opportunities for all.
Selection for held are set out in note 5.6 to the Financial employment and promotion is based on range of options for graduates, apprentices The Company has also elected employees Statements on page 162. and trainees through our Barratt Future merit, following an objective assessment from across the Group and seniority levels to The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future of ability and experience of candidates, Talent programmes.
In response to the join an employee forum, which will discuss Governments Apprenticeship Levy scheme, right to dividend payments on shares held after giving full and fair consideration to all aspects of the business of importance to within the EBT and these shares do not count applications.
The Group is also committed to we have worked with the HBF, Federation employees.
The employee forum will have its of Master Builders, and housebuilding in the calculation of the weighted average ensuring that its workplaces are free from first meeting in FY19.
number of shares used to calculate EPS until discrimination and that everyone is treated peers on the trailblazer programmes to iii Employee communications develop new apprenticeship standards for such time as they are vested to the relevant with dignity and respect.
This waiver does not apply to any to ensure that its policies and practices apprenticeship levels 36.
We have worked A key part of effective employee engagement with our Apprentice champions to ensure our shares held under an award to which dividend provide equal opportunities in respect of is communication.
The Company seeks to equivalents apply.
issues such as training, career development programmes deliver quality Apprenticeships.
ensure that all significant events, economic Our 12-month leaver completion rate and promotion for all existing or potential factors and financial updates and all The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain employees irrespective of age, disability, continues to rise reaching 82% for the year other material information on matters of from voting on shares held in the EBT in any compared to 79% in previous 12 months and gender reassignment, marriage and civil concern to employees and their impact way they think fit and in doing so may take partnership, pregnancy and maternity, 59% in 2016.
This improvement in completion on the performance of the Group are into account both financial and non-financial rates takes us 2% above our target of race, nationality, religion or belief, sex, and communicated to employees.
This is mainly interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or sexual orientation.
80% for the number of Apprentices on the channelled through the Groups intranet their dependants.
programme achieving a level 2 qualification and the use of email alerts, core briefings Every effort is made to retain and support within our Trade, Technical and Commercial and regular newsletters.
Additionally, the employees who become disabled whilst Relations with other capital providers programmes.
Our completion rate is Chief Executive regularly briefs senior working within the Group.
Further details currently 7% above the Construction average The Board recognises the contribution made and middle management via conference on the Groups diversity initiatives are according the the CITB Benchmark report by other providers of capital to the Group calls and bulletins which gives them the available in the sustainability section produced for the Company in July 2018. and welcomes the views of such providers opportunity to ask questions and enter into of our website which is available from in relation to the Groups approach to dialogue.
We hold various senior leadership We continue to expand on our Armed www.
events throughout the year where the Forces personnel site management sustainability our-publications.
senior leadership team discuss business training programme.
This Armed Forces Employee share schemes ii Employee engagement performance of the Group and areas of Transition programme recently won Best focus.
An annual conference is also held Talent Development programme at the Details of employee share schemes are set The Board recognises that appropriate with management from all divisions invited, 2017 Training Journal Awards.
Including the employee engagement is a key factor in out in note 6.3 to the Financial Statements.
enabling the Group to focus on key priorities upcoming intake of trainees we will have Details of long term incentive schemes for the long term success of the Group, which and share best practice.
Individually and recruited around 100 construction trainees depends on each employee being involved the Directors are shown in the Remuneration collectively, the Board and the Executive via this route, some of whom had little or no report on pages 100 and 104 to 105. and engaged to deliver our strategic goals.
Committee members visit operating construction experience and they are proving The Company utilises a comprehensive divisions and sites frequently in order to to be outstanding leaders.
We have invested employee engagement programme with assess operational performance, engage in our employees, including recruiting 204 the aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
with employees on a one-to-one basis and new apprentices, trainees, graduates and All employees are invited to take part in undergraduates in FY18.
We also continue Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 116 Other statutory disclosures continued to collaborate with the wider housebuilding vi Employee Sharesave Scheme Approach to tax and tax governance Significant agreements industry.
We actively participate in the Home In April 2018, the Company invited all eligible For all taxes, it is the Groups aim to The following significant agreements as at Building Skills Partnership the aims of employees of the Group to participate in ensure it accurately calculates and pays 30 June 2018 contained provisions entitling which include attracting new entrants to the the tenth grant under the Savings Related the tax that is due at the correct time.
the counterparties to exercise termination or industry, providing the skills for today and Share Option Scheme the 2018 Sharesave Whilst the Group does seek to minimise its other rights in the event of a change of control the future, and supporting the supply chain in which was approved by shareholders at the tax liabilities through the use of legitimate of the Company: attracting and developing the skills they need Companys AGM held in November 2008. routine tax planning, it does not participate to support our industry.
The revolving credit facility agreement The invitations for the 2018 Sharesave in aggressive tax planning schemes.
dated 14 May 2013 as amended on We are also now working with a social allowed eligible employees to contribute The Group also seeks to be transparent in 17 December 2014, 30 June 2016 and enterprise organisation and a subcontractor a maximum of 500 per month in one or its dealings with HMRC and has regular 29 December 2016 made between, in order to provide employment opportunities a combination of Sharesave schemes.
dialogue with its representatives to discuss amongst others, the Company, Lloyds for ex-offenders who are within 12 months This enabled those individuals who had both developments in the business and the Bank Plc as the facility agent and the of release.
Through the social enterprise participated in previous grants under the ongoing tax position.
In accordance with banks and financial institutions named organisation, training is offered on site Sharesave the opportunity to increase their UK legislation, we have published details therein as lenders the Revolving Credit in prisons in such areas as dry lining, savings and gave other employees new and of our tax strategy and this can be found at Facility Agreement contains a prepayment decorating and scaffolding.
Following release existing the chance to participate and further www.
provision at the election of each lender on from prison we recognise it is sometimes align their interests with the performance of The Chief Financial Officer retains overall change of control.
The Company must notify difficult to find employment which is why we the Group.
At 30 June 2018, approximately responsibility for oversight of the tax affairs the facility agent promptly upon becoming are helping to find and source opportunities 52% of employees participate in one or more of the Group.
Jessica White, Chief Financial aware of the change of control.
After the in the building industry.
To date we have found of the active Sharesave schemes.
Officer was Senior Accounting Officer occurrence of a change of control, the full-time employment for six individuals throughout the year ended 30 June 2018. facility agent shall if a lender so requests vii Culture and values following their release.
We are also working The Senior Accounting Officer receives within 20 days of being notified of the directly with a prison to deliver CV workshops The Company takes its collective culture and regular updates on tax matters.
In addition, change of control by notice to the Company, to those nearing the end of their sentence.
The Board considers taxation is discussed by the Audit Committee on the date falling 30 days after the change feedback from the employee engagement at least annually.
of control, cancel the commitment of such v Employee training and development survey in its overview of the management of lender under the Revolving Credit Facility We continue to expand on our Academy the business.
Agreement and declare all amounts and Leadership programmes this year outstanding in respect of such lender under introducing a new Rising Stars programme Articles of Association the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement for those who we see as being our leaders immediately due and payable.
The Revolving The Companys Articles of Association the and managers of the future.
We have also Credit Facility Agreement also contains Articles contain regulations which deal introduced a new Learning management a provision such that, following a change with matters such as the appointment and system enabling us to provide learning and of control, a lender is not obliged to fund removal of Directors, Directors interests and development for everyone when required.
any further drawdown of the facility other proceedings at general and Board meetings.
Our Construction and Sales Academy than rollover loans.
For these purposes, Any amendments to the Articles may be programmes continue to expand with the a change of control occurs if any person made in accordance with the provisions of introduction of refresher and advanced or group of persons acting in concert as the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special selling skills for our Sales teams as well as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and resolution at a general meeting.
the introduction of an internally delivered Mergers gains control as defined in the NHBC accredited warranty programme.
Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 117 The note purchase agreement dated Going concern 22 August 2017 in respect of the Groups In determining the appropriate basis of 200m privately placed notes contains a preparation of the Financial Statements, change of control prepayment provision.
the Directors are required to consider Such control provision provides that whether the Group can continue in promptly after the Company becomes operational existence for the foreseeable aware that a change of control has future.
Accordingly, after making enquiries occurred, and in any event not later than and having considered forecasts and 10 business days thereafter the Company appropriate sensitivities, the Directors shall notify all the holders of the notes have formed a judgement, at the time of of the same and give the noteholders approving the Financial Statements, that the option to require the Company to there is a reasonable expectation that the prepay at par all outstanding amounts Group has adequate resources to continue principle and interest under the notes.
in operational existence for the foreseeable If a noteholder accepts such offer of future, being at least 12 months from the prepayment, such prepayment shall take date of these Financial Statements more place on a business day that is not less information on the going concern judgement than 30 nor more than 60 days after the can be found on page 130, Note 1.3.
For this Company notified the noteholders of the reason, they continue to adopt the going change of control.
For these purposes a concern basis in the preparation of these change of control means the acquisition Financial Statements.
by a person or a group of persons acting On behalf of the Board in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company Tina Bains carrying voting rights.
The note purchase Company Secretary agreements also impose upon the holders 4 September 2018 customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes, such as the transfer being subject to a fide minimis amount.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
