Strategic report Governance Financials VIABILITY STATEMENT As required by section C2.2 of the Code, the Board of Directors has carried out a robust assessment of the future prospects of the Group taking into account the Groups current position and the principal risks facing the Company.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Operating review section on pages 17 to 23.
In addition, note 27 to the Group financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups business model as described on page 6 has continued to show growth by a combination of organic volume growth, increasing penetration of new and existing services, improved efficiency and the early benefits of synergies from the acquired businesses.
The Groups strategy is explained on page 14.
Given the Groups growth plans we are prepared to accept a certain level of risk in order to remain competitive and to continue operating in ever changing markets.
The risks and the actions being taken to manage or mitigate them are explained fully on pages 42 to 45 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group operates a three year plan cycle.
It is the period of time the Directors believe they are able to forecast with sufficient certainty and accuracy.
A period of three years was therefore determined to be the most appropriate period of time for the viability assessment.
The three-year plan considers the Groups income statement, cash flows, debt, financial covenants and other key financial ratios over the period.
The three year plan assumes: Volumes will continue to grow at a sustainable rate Inflation will remain in line with the Bank of England BoE target of 2-3% The BoE base interest rate will not change materially No acquisitions - the acquisition price, financial performance and risk impact cannot be addressed until an acquisition is identified.
The risk management of acquisitions is described in the risk management section on page 42 In reaching this assessment the following processes have been undertaken: As part of the Premium Listing process, the Board considered and discussed the principal risks which could impact the business over the following three years and how each of these risks were being managed and mitigated The Board re-assessed these risks, and the management and mitigation of the risks, in the three year strategic review At the year end, as part of the Boards approval of the Viability statement, the Board again assessed the principal risks which could impact the business over the following three years and how each of these risks were being managed and mitigated Stress and sensitivity analysis of the principal risks facing the Group was carried out where appropriate, which involved applying a severe but plausible combination of scenarios to the forecast.
This assessment included both qualitative and quantitative analysis.
Specific scenarios modelled included: A volume decline across the business A failure of the Groups IT systems preventing the business from buying or auctioning cars during the busiest two auction weeks of the year An increase of 50 basis points in the BoE base rate resulting in increased interest expense on the Groups facilities The Directors regularly monitor the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control processes via delegation to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The monitoring activities are described in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 65 to 66.
Based on this analysis and other matters considered and reviewed by the Directors during the year, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and meet their liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
The going concern basis has therefore been adopted in preparing these financial statements.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
