54 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Executive Management Committee The Executive Management Committee is a committee formed bytheGroup Chief Executive to assist in managing the Group.
It is not a Board Committee.
Role and composition of the Executive Management Committee The Executive Management Committee establishes, for Board arecommunicated effectively.
The Committee also drives best approval, the strategic direction of the Company and allocates practice and seeks to improve Group-wide efficiency and resources to deliver the strategy approved by the Board.
the Committee considers the organisations structure, monitors The Committee normally meets monthly and four of its meetings per financial performance and the approach to corporate responsibility, year are held face to face, normally over two days.
develops and agrees Company policies covering financial, HR, In addition to the two executive directors the Committee membership legal, regulatory and ethical matters and ensures these policies is made up of the following business and functional leads.
David Blizzard Kevin Erickson Shawn Fallon Maria Garton Group Company Secretary Group HR Director Chief Financial Officer, Signature Group General Counsel David joined BBA Aviation in January Kevin joined BBA Aviation on 1 May 2015 Shawn joined BBA Aviation in 2009 Maria joined BBA Aviation in August 2013.
He was appointed Group Company as Group HR Director.
Prior to joining the and held a number of finance roles at 2018.
She has significant international Secretary on 1 June 2016 and became Company, Kevin held a number of senior Signature.
He joined the ERO business experience, having held several senior amember of the Executive Committee global HR roles at Ingersoll Rand Pfizer, where he held a number of senior legal roles, both in the US and globally, on 1 January 2017. and GlaxoSmithkline.
finance roles before being appointed including eight years in the aerospace and Chief Financial Officer, Signature Flight aviation sector.
Gareth Hall Shawn Hall Erik Keller Tony Lefebvre President, Ontic Chief Commercial Officer, Signature Group Chief Information Officer Chief Operating Officer, Signature Gareth joined BBA Aviation in 2002 Shawn joined BBA Aviation in April 2017 Erik joined BBA Aviation in February Tony joined BBA Aviation in July 2013 andhas held a number of roles within as Senior Vice President Strategy and 2012 and serves as Group Chief asPresident and Chief Operating Officer the Group including CFO for the Legacy Business Development for BBA Aviation Information Officer CIO.
In this role, of ASIG before becoming President and Support Division, CFO of Signature Flight and was appointed Chief Commercial Erik is responsible for all aspects of IT, Chief Operating Officer of Signature Support EMEA, Financial Controller Officer, Signature Flight Support in leading a team which provides technology MRO business in February 2017 and in of ASIG in Europe and Group Internal July2018.
solutions to employees as well as external July 2018 he added to his responsibilities Auditor.
In 2013 Gareth became President being appointed Chief Operating Officer customers and partners.
and Managing Director for Ontic.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 55 Governance Structure The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards of Corporate Governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees The Board review the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement The Board aims to focus as much of its time as possible on strategy, onbehalf of the Board: and business performance and people.
The Board monitors the evolution establish and oversee the Groups arrangements for employee of Corporate Governance best practice, reviews and updates its disclosure and fraud prevention within the Group.
procedures as required, and adopts, where relevant, recommendations Remuneration Committee of governance review bodies in relation to Board leadership and The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with making recommendations to the Board on the framework and shareholders.
Boardpolicy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board that includes directors and other designated senior executives: and matters such as: strategy and objectives: Group policies: annual determining, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration budgets: dividends: acquisitions and disposals of businesses over package for each of the executive directors, including pension acertain size : expenditure over a certain limit : financial results: and rightsand any compensation payments.
the appointment and removal of directors and the Company Secretary.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee have been This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Matters extended for 2019 to include the additional obligations under the outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by management newCorporate Governance Code.
in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Nomination Committee The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: The Board recognises its responsibilities for monitoring the culture of the organisation, ensuring that the values remain relevant and make appropriate recommendations to the Board for that it, in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive, sets the theappointment or replacement of additional directors: tone from the top.
review and consider succession planning for directors and senior Written terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed each executives: and yearand, for the main Committees, these are available on the Groups review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make website www.
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Audit and Risk Committee More details on the work of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that might the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee are have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary roles are to: setout below.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups systems Implementation Committee ofinternal control and risk management: The Implementation Committee comprises any two directors monitor the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: normally the two executive directors and it is authorised toimplement Board decisions.
review and assess the Groups external auditor, including the annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the independence of Disclosure Committee the external auditor: The Disclosure Committee comprises any two directors or anydirector and the Company Secretary and has responsibility monitor the integrity and audit of the Groups financial statements fordetermining, on a timely basis, the disclosure treatment and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial .
performance, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: review the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and advisethe Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy: 56 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 The Board Board activity in 2018 A comprehensive induction programme was organised for Some of the important matters considered by the Board together MarkJohnstone.
Wayne Edmunds provided a comprehensive with the time allocation are illustrated in the pie charts and table on handover.
The induction programme included a number of sessions the facing page.
At each meeting in 2018 the Board received reports with the Groups external advisers and covered communications with from the Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director together investors, directors duties in a listed company and the operation of the with reports and updates on health and safety, litigation and potential Board and its Committees.
Members of the Executive Board evaluation Committee attended a number of meetings in 2018 to report to The Board last conducted an external review in 2015 and expects the Board on their business or areas of responsibility.
Opportunities toconduct an external review towards the end of 2019.
The reasons also exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board behind this are explained in the Compliance Statement in section B6.
members and with members of the senior management team.
The Board effectiveness review in 2018 was conducted by the A theme running throughout 2018 was capital allocation and thepolicy Company Secretary with support from Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock, that was announced with the results early in 2018. acorporate governance advisory firm.
The directors each completed aquestionnaire covering a wide range of topics.
The outputs were In 2018, the Board held two of its scheduled six meetings in the USA.
written up and discussed at the Board meeting in November.
The June meeting was held at the White Plains FBO near New York, which allowed the Board to tour the FBO and the facilities.
In We spent time in our November meeting discussing the review.
November, the Board meeting was held in Orlando allowing the Board Initially, the Board reviewed the evaluation findings from 2017 and to tour the FBO at Orlando International Airport and the Groups new notedprogress had been made in all areas.
The site visits are an important part of the Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation was positive and Boards programme, enabling Board members to meet a number itwas felt the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
ofemployees from different parts of the Group.
The Board asked the Company Secretary to explore video In November, the Board conducted a comprehensive review of conferencing options for the meetings that were not held face to face.
theGroups strategy and execution against the strategic plans.
It was also agreed that the non-executive directors would be invited TheBoard also spent time discussing the Board evaluation exercise toattend events during 2019 to give them an opportunity to meet and considering areas for improvement.
more of the workforce in an informal setting.
A list of potential events has been circulated to the Board members for them to consider which In December, the Board reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2018 events they might be able to attend.
The Board also noted that they which included monitoring strategic progress, executive succession had not spent the usual amount of time on talent and people and this planning, non-executive succession planning, capital allocation and was primarily due to the deep-dive that is normally conducted capital structure and addressing the Board effectiveness actions from inNovember having been pushed out to June 2019 to allow new 2017.
The Board considers it has made good progress against its reporting structures to bed in and for the talent processes to objectives during the year, although it recognises that succession bereviewed.
planning will need to remain an area of focus.
Board activity in 2019 Although Mark Johnstone and David Crook lead our engagement The Board has set itself a number of goals for 2019 that include withshareholders, the Chairman, SID, Committee Chairs and monitoring business performance and the execution of the strategy, non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders employee engagement and ensuring the culture promotes safety ifrequired.
andinclusiveness and helping the new directors settle into their new Inductions roles on the Board.
Given the different experience of new non-executive directors Additionally, the Board will keep governance matters under review theinduction programme is based on a menu of events and the toensure that it is discharging its duties appropriately and will report programme is agreed between the Chairman, the new NED and the oncompliance with the new Corporate Governance Code in the Company Secretary.
Both Amee and Emma have undertaken site visits AnnualReport next year.
in the UK and held meetings with various members of the executive team.
Amee spent two days in the USA, meeting members of the executive team and visiting the head office in Orlando and a number ofthe Groups FBOs on the east coast.
Both also attended a session onduties for directors of listed companies supported by the Companys external legal advisers.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 57 Approximate time allocations How the Board spends its time Board meetings focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific matters.
The meetings in June and November included site visits.
A number of key matters considered by the Board during 2018 are shown below: February Annual report and contents, AGM and dividend Refinancing and capital structure May Review of the Ontic business Update on the strategic review of the ERO business Trading update June Review of the Signature business Strategy Strategic transactions 40% Business Progress Updates 30% Initial review of the proposal to acquire Firstmark People 20% Governance Other 10% Post investment review of the Landmark acquisition July Interim results Corporate Finance review September People matters including views from employees November Annual Strategy Review presentations from all businesses and functions Board diversity Board evaluation Additional The Board held five additional meetings in 2018.
These meetings were meetings toconsider the acquisition of Epic and Firstmark, review trading, review theprogress of transactions and to approve capital investments.
Additionally, the Board held a number of Board Committee meetings to give final approval for the two strategic acquisitions.
Gender 2018 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show attendance by non-Committee members at meetings or part of meetings to which they were invited.
Male 63% Female 37% Name Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Number of 6 5 5 1 scheduled meetings Sir Nigel Rudd 6 6 5 5 1 1 Amee Chande 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 David Crook 6 6 Tenure Wayne Edmunds 5 6 Peter Edwards 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 Mark Johnstone 5 5 Emma Gilthorpe 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 Susan Kilsby 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 Under 3 years 55% Peter Ratcliffe 2 2 2 2 2 2 34 years 18% Peter Ventress 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 Over 5 years 27% Note: Under 3 years includes the two executive The Board held five additional meetings in 2018: the Remuneration Committee held four additional meetings and the Nomination Committee held directors: Mark Johnstone who joined the Group two additional meetings.
These additional meetings were well attended with only two individual absences at these meetings.
in 2008 and David Crook who joined in 2015.
58 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Nomination Committee The Board is supporting and following the work of the Executive Management Committee in re-invigorating the Groups Inclusion and Diversity programme moreinformation is provided in the Resources and Relationships section on page 33.
Appointment term Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board foran initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance The composition of the Nomination Committee is set out in the ofduties following the Boards annual performance evaluation.
During 2018, the Nomination Committee comprised the Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but may be Chairman and independent non-executive directors.
stepped down on his appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive.
The appointment process non-executive directors During year The Nomination Committee considered a skills matrix in June andNovember 2018 to help it understand the existing balance 01 01 18 Resigned Appointed 31 12 18 04 03 19 ofexperience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman ofbackgrounds on the Board and the future requirements.
Amee Chande Early in the autumn, the Board identified the need to search for a Peter Edwards newnon-executive director with recent and relevant accounting or Emma Gilthorpe auditing experience and agreed to appoint Russell Reynolds to assist with this search.
Vicky Jarman The Nomination Committee briefed the Russell Reynolds team on Susan Kilsby thecharacteristics of an ideal candidate before a long list of candidates Stephen King was drawn up.
The Committee reviewed the candidates and identified Peter Ratcliffe 11 05 18 a number for interview.
Members of the Committee conducted the interviews and the interviewed candidates were discussed by the Peter Ventress Committee before making a recommendation to the Board that The Nomination Committee meets as required and other directors bothVicky Jarman and Stephen King be appointed to the Board.
attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
Russell Reynolds Associates has been accredited under the Enhanced The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting and two Code of Conduct for executive search firms, for their strong track additional meetings in 2018.
This was supplemented by informal record in and promotion of gender diversity in FTSE 350 companies.
meetings, individual briefings and meetings between Committee Their only relationship with BBA Aviation plc was in respect of search, members.
The additional meetings were related to the search and selection and recruitment.
selection process for the new non-executive director.
Talent and succession How the Committee spends its time The Nomination Committee has responsibility for talent and During the year, the Committee continued to discuss matters relating succession planning.
Given the significant number of changes in 2018 to talent and succession planning for leadership development across in senior leadership roles and in the structure of the organisation there the Group.
Diversity is considered as one aspect of the succession will be a19-month gap between the reviews at Nomination Committee planning discussions, together with developing and strengthening level and the next detailed review will be completed in June 2019, ofthe pipeline of talent within the Group and increasing the interaction Sir Nigel Rudd, between Board members and executive management and talented Chairman future executives.
Diversity Diversity covers a variety of different elements, including professionaland industry experience and an understanding of  regions, ethnic backgrounds and genders.
TheBoard does not believe that gender quotas or any other quotas effectively promote the development of appropriate and broad diversity.
The gender diversity on the Board has improved in the last 18months.
However, the Board does believe that an appreciation ofthe value of a diverse range of backgrounds is an important part ofsuccession at all levels of the organisation.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 59 Audit and Risk Committee During 2018, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
The meetings are minuted by the Company Secretary.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, and Chief Risk Officer aswell as the external auditor and the PwC partner responsible for the co-sourced Internal Audit function are also generally invited to attend theAudit and Risk Committee meetings.
In2018, the Audit and Risk Committee held confidential sessions with The Audit and Risk Committee discharges a number of key the Head of Group Internal Audit, and with the external auditor, but responsibilities on behalf of the Board and the Group.
These include otherwise without management present.
In addition, the Committee monitoring the Groups financial reporting processes, overseeing the Chairman met with the external auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and work of the Internal Audit team and reporting on the independence Internal Audit on a number of occasions during the year and through to and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee also met the US audit team and the US finance team during a trip to the US.
The Committee While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole Board, the Chairman may call additional Audit and Risk Committee meetings at oversight of the processes that underpin risk assessment and internal the request ofany director or the external auditor.
control are matters that the Board delegates to this Committee.
For theproduction of the 2018 Report and Accounts, the Audit and Risk How the Committee spends its time Committee was asked by the Board to advise whether the Report and The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and technical matters by senior management and by the external auditors.
that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess In 2018, briefings included the impact of the new IFRS 16 standard on the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit and Risk Committee also reviewed the Viability Statement The Audit and Risk Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on the and the supporting process on behalf of the Board.
Groups key business risks and the Committee members all of whom are also members of the Remuneration Committee are aware of the The report on the Audit and Risk Committee is set out below.
importance of keeping the appropriateness of incentive structures Peter Ventress, under review.
The Committee also assesses compliance with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Directors Responsibility Statements.
There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on business Composition ethics and compliance, which includes such matters as the review The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2018 is set ofthe Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, under which out in the table below.
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties During year infinancial reporting or other matters sometimes this is known aswhistleblowing.
In addition, the Committee reviews reports 01 01 18 Resigned Appointed 31 12 18 04 03 19 onanymatters raised through this process.
Peter Ventress The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to Amee Chande theBoard on matters within its remit, including the remuneration Peter Edwards andappointment of the external auditor.
While the appointment Emma Gilthorpe oftheexternal auditor is considered each year, it is the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at least every Vicky Jarman - - five years.
A formal tender process took place in 2014 for financial Susan Kilsby periods ending 31 December 2015 and beyond.
The Committee Stephen King considers a number of factors, including audit effectiveness at both operating Company and Group-level: quality, continuity, expertise, Peter Ratcliffe 11 05 18 depth of resources, and competitiveness of fees.
The appointment All members of the Audit and Risk Committee are independent ofthe Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years and Andrew non-executive directors.
The Committee is well qualified with sector Bond became lead audit partner following the completion of the experience and comprehensive experience of corporate finance 2017audit early in the calendar year.
The appointments of Vicky Jarman and Stephen King will The Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review ensure that the Committee continues to have sufficient recent and ofwritten reports circulated in advance of meetings and by relevant financial experience to discharge its duties.
From May 2019 discussingthese reports and any other matters with the relevant Stephen King will chair the Committee.
60 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Topics covered by the Committee during 2018 and to date in 2019 Taxation See Note 4 included: The Group is subject to tax in multiple jurisdictions, primarily the US and the UK.
As stated in our Global Tax Strategy we are committed to Review of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements compliance with the tax laws and practices in the countries in which we in respect of the half-year results and year-end report and accounts operate and continuously monitor changes to tax legislation, ensuring described in more detail below : that we take advice where appropriate from professional advisers.
Review of significant matters raised by the risk or internal audit team: The Group is monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid Review of the process to confirm that the Annual Report is fair, including the EU Commissions announcement on 16 November 2017 balanced and understandable: that it will conduct a State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Review of the going concern and viability assessments: Foreign Company regime.
Judgement has been applied in our Consideration of the audit fee and non-audit fees: consideration of the potential risk to the Group and the quantum of any potential liability which has been disclosed and not provided for.
Review of the Group risk profile and the actions management is taking to mitigate key risks: The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the Annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of the judgements made and the disclosures were appropriate.
schedule of the Committees agenda items for the forthcoming Purchase price accounting See Note 25 year, of the non-audit services policy and of BBA Aviations matrix The Group completed a number of acquisitions during 2018.
In each of authority levels: case the allocation of fair values to all acquired assets and liabilities is Review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion of an area of significant judgement.
Key to the judgements is the Group Internal Audits overall strategy: estimation of the related cash flows for each and every asset and External auditor independence and effectiveness see page 61 : and liability acquired.
The judgements are often inherently dependent on, Systems of internal control see page 61. and sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the underlying business.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in November The Committee relied upon analysis provided by management both 2018 and no significant changes were made.
from the acquisition due diligence and the purchase price accounting exercise.
The work of management was reported on by Deloitte LLP.
Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit and The Committee was satisfied that the purchase price accounting and Risk Committee the disclosure made in relation to it were appropriate.
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and also reports from Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory See Note 11 the outcome of the half-year review and annual audit.
The Committee The Group holds significant inventory across its operations, with supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the necessary professional $288.5 million of net inventory across the total Group at 31 December scepticism its role requires.
The primary areas of judgement 2018.
This inventory is held at cost net of a provision for slow moving or considered by the Committee in relation to the 2018 financial obsolete inventory.
The Group has a clear policy for inventory statements and how these were addressed include: provisioning and the policy is applied on a consistent basis.
This policy forms an important part of the audit by Deloitte LLP.
Recording of exceptional and other items: The Committee has confirmed through its enquiries of management Taxation: and Deloitte that the policy remains appropriate and has been Purchase price accounting acquisition accounting: consistently applied.
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory: and IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 See Accounting Policies page 108 IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 replaces existing leasing guidance, including IAS 17 Leases These issues were discussed with management and the external and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease auditor in the July, September and November meetings when signing and is effective from 1 January 2019. off on the auditors plan for the year-end, and no new areas were The standard is expected to have a significant impact on the Groups identified subsequently in the February meeting.
reported performance and financial position, with the recognition of a Recording of exceptional and other items See Note 2 discounted lease liability on the balance sheet at 1 January 2019 in the The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating profit region of $1.2 billion with a corresponding right of use asset and it will within a middle column within the Income Statement.
These items impact certain of the Groups alternative performance measures.
relate to restructuring activities, transaction costs associated with Judgement has been required in determining the application of the acquisitions and disposals, the amortisation of acquired intangibles standard including the transition options taken and the determination accounted for under IFRS 3 and material non-recurring events.
The of the applicable discount rates.
Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements report of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the made were consistent and aligned to the Groups policy and the judgements made and the disclosures made in relation to the disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 61 Audit and accountability theCommittee Chairman for any such project where estimated fees a.
Auditor independence and audit effectiveness exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval would have been required for non-tax Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000. monitoring of the external auditors independence and objectivity, Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they performed andthe effectiveness of the audit process.
during the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness assessment in impair their independence or objectivity.
On the basis of their own respect of work carried out during the year by the external auditor, review of the services performed, the requirement of pre-approval including: andthe auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and audit team: their independence and objectivity.
Non-audit fees are set out in Note the effectiveness of audit planning and execution: 2 of the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements 2018: $0.2 million, the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: 2017: nil and relate to the Groups 2018 interim review $0.1 million communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Committee: andreporting accountant services $0.1 million.
and In November 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the the formal reporting of the auditor.
non-audit services policy and adopted a more restrictive regime fornon-audit services to match the latest guidance.
The policy The assessment was completed with input in the form of a survey wasreviewed in 2018 is available on the Companys website ofthe key financial management team, including the divisional www.
ChiefFinancial Officers CFOs, the Group Financial Controller b.
System of internal control andtheGroup Tax Director, together with the Chairman of the Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control Auditand Risk Committee.
andforreviewing its effectiveness rests with the Board.
Management Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also input their is accountable to the directors for monitoring this system and for viewsand it was concluded that the external audit for 2018 had providing assurance to the directors that it has done so.
The system provided appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of ofinternal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded in auditrisk.
Overall, the quality of the audit was assessed as good.
theGroups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the Additionally, the Committee considered the findings of the FRCs 2018 significant risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental Audit Quality Review of Deloitte and the actions being taken to address andethical risks.
The Group considers that it has adequate information the matters raised.
The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities affecting aself-assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements itslong and short-term value.
of the Code and the Guidance onAudit Committees published by This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended 31 theFinancial Reporting Council in September 2012.
The Committee December 2018 and up to 4 March 2019 and the directors can has confirmed that during the year ithad formal and transparent therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in arrangements for considering corporate reporting, risk management accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate throughout that period.
relationship with the external auditor.
One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and independence The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the is the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by its directors and accords with the FRCs guidance Risk Management, external auditor.
The policy is reviewed each year and, since December Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The 2012, the policy prohibits the Groups external auditor from carrying system is designed tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure out remuneration consultancy and tax planning work for the Group.
It can provide reasonable but not The external auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss to the ofother services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, extent that it is appropriate, taking account of costs and benefits.
valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are implementation.
The Companys policy is not to use the external summarised on pages 4246, together with a description of their auditor for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the potential impact and mitigations in place.
The main features of the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other Groups internal control and risk management systems are listed below.
than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
Risks are identified through a detailed self-assessment process include the external auditor in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
carried out by division and by function.
The process analyses risk Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are regularly into eight types covering strategic, operational, financial, people, reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2018 are set out compliance, governance, hazard and an other category, including innote2to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
unpredictable, although with hindsight, often inevitable, events.
During 2018, if fees for non-audit projects within the scope of They are recorded on risk registers together with the mitigations.
permitted tax services were expected to exceed 250,000, then 2.
On a bi-annual basis, risk registers are refreshed, and the key risks theAudit and Risk Committee Chairman was required to pre-approve at division and Group level are plotted on risk maps, which are each project.
In any event, specific project approval is required by discussed with senior business management, Divisional 62 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 management and Groups Executive Committee in order to from the post-investment appraisals are also shared with members validate the risk profile.
The validated Group risk map is then of senior management.
discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee, together with 9.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency keymitigation activities, and further mitigation, if any, is agreed.
hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
Group Internal Audit reviews the risk maps and risk registers 10.
A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior andbuilds its annual audit plan from the risk profile.
A transparent executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, mapping is produced to link the key risks to the Internal Audit capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and profile, setting out the rationale for the focus of Internal Audit treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk activity.
This is agreed annually with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an annual Based on this information, the Board reviews the risks and, if basis.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
satisfied, confirms it is satisfied that key risks are appropriately 11.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or mitigated.
If this is not the case, the Board requests that businesses are approved by the Board.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures 3.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office and concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for operational, entertainment, equal opportunities and anti-harassment, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company secretarial and competition law, legal policy, data privacy, Corporate Responsibility, insurance functions.
market disclosure and communications and share dealing.
An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based A review of compliance with such policies by Group companies reviews of controls and business processes.
The role of Internal iscarried out twice a year and senior executives are also required Audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit charter and this includes toconfirm compliance with certain policies twice a year.
Group its terms of reference, the standards to which it adheres, the scope policies are complemented by divisional and Company-led initiatives and coverage of its work and its reporting processes.
The Audit and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical andRisk Committee receives a report from Internal Audit at Conduct Policy, which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all eachmeeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation protocol and effectiveness of controls, together with a summary of key issues, regular reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of the work schedules and any action required.
In accordance with the twice-yearly report on Business Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics UKCorporate Governance Code, the Audit and Risk Committee Implementation Policy seeks to codify the overarching principles and monitors and reviews the effectiveness of Internal Audit using processes that underlie the various elements set out in more detail outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques.
inthe Code of Business Ethics and the policies on bribery and A co-sourcing arrangement exists with PwC, headed by a corruption and gifts and entertainment.
Compliance with all specialistPwC Internal Audit Partner who manages both BBA thesepolicies and with the Groups procedures concerning the Aviation and PwC staff in the delivery of the Internal Audit service.
appointment and remuneration of foreign agents issubject to review This arrangement provides access to a broad range of skills and as considered necessary as part of the ongoing risk-based Internal experience to support its effective delivery.
The effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk review process described initem 1 above.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls applicable to all reporting units.
A Group Safety Management System outlines policies, standards policies are aligned with International Financial Reporting and procedures in conjunction with the business line procedure Standards and compliance with these policies is reviewed manuals of the operating companies which are applicable aspartofthe Internal Audit process.
Annual self-assessment and or audits arecarried out at Company-level against the Group standards and 6.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for business line procedures.
Group-level HSE audits are performed to eachof the Groups reporting units.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to Safety and Environmental HSE report is tabled at each meeting management which measure actual performance against ofthe Executive Committee.
The Board also receives a summary budgetand forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, profits HSE report in addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports andoperating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
cover all Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group A monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these HSE function.
Key HSE performance metrics are reviewed and management accounts, highlighting key issues and summarising verified annually by an independent third party organisation.
Senior the detailed financial information provided by the operating units.
managers performance and related financial incentives are tied The integrity of management accounts with the underlying inpart to their success against selected annual HSE improvement financial records is subject to review as part of the Internal objectives.
Further details about HSE matters are set out on the Auditprocess.
The annual Control Risk Assessment 8.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, questionnaire which is completed by each of the operating authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by businesses includes a number of questions on Corporate theBoard, and post-investment appraisals.
The lessons learned Responsibility matters.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 63 Compliance Statement The Company applies the principles of Corporate Governance set on1April 2018 Wayne Edmunds returned to his NED role but he outin the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 isnolonger regarded as an independent non-executive director.
theCode, which is the version of the Code that applies to the 2018 During the year, the Chairman met the non-executive directors on a financial year.
The Directors can confirm compliance throughout 2018 one-to-one basis.
Additionally, the Chairman met the non-executive with all relevant provisions set out in the Code except that the external directors without the executive directors on a number of occasions.
Board evaluation has been delayed for one year.
There were several occasions during the year when discussions The section below sets out how the Company has complied with between various directors took place on an informal basis.
themain principles and provisions of the Code.
The disclosures are In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains setout in the order they appear in the Code.
regularcontact during the year with the other directors to discuss Section A: Leadership specific issues.
A1: Role of the Board As part of the Board effectiveness review see B6 below, in November, The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Susan Kilsby collated the feedback on the Chairman, discussed this Company.
Its role includes providing effective leadership and agreeing with the other non-executive directors and provided feedback the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business opportunities and totheChairman.
seeks to ensure that appropriate controls are in place to examine Section B: Effectiveness andmanage risk.
B1: The Composition of the Board It is responsible for reviewing managements performance and At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, seven oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
The Board independent non-executive directors, a non-executive director who is also responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, isnot regarded as independent and two executive directors, who ensuring that the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
contribute a wide range of complementary skills and experience.
As described above there is a schedule of matters reserved to The Board has concluded that Amee Chande, Peter Edwards, theBoard and this is reviewed annually by the Board in December.
EmmaGilthorpe, Vicky Jarman, Susan Kilsby, Stephen King and TheCorporate Governance Report discuss the work of the Board PeterVentress are independent in character and judgement.
andthe work of its Committees.
The Company has formal procedures in place to ensure that the The Company has arranged insurance for the directors and officers Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively ofthe Company.
andsuch procedures have been followed throughout 2018 and A2: Division of responsibilities tothedate of this report.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
The division The Board identified the need for additional recent and relevant of responsibilities is reviewed annually by the Board and is available accounting and or auditing experience on the Board and commenced onthe Corporate Governance Section of the BBA Aviation plc website.
a search process for an additional non-executive director in the middle The statement was last reviewed by the Board in November 2018. of theyear.
Insummary, Sir Nigel Rudd, the Chairman, is responsible for leading B2: Appointments to the Board theBoard and its effectiveness: the Chief Executive is responsible for There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments that the implementation of the Group strategy and running the businesses.
isdescribed in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 56.
A3: The Chairman Amee Chande and Emma Gilthorpe were appointed to the Board Sir Nigel sets the Board agenda in consultation with the Chief on1January 2018 following a comprehensive process that was Executive, the Group Finance Director, other Board members and described in last years report.
A similar process was followed before theCompany Secretary.
On appointment as Chairman in May 2014 Vicky Jarman and Stephen King were appointed to the Board on theBoard considered Sir Nigel to be independent in accordance 7January 2019. withthe Code provisions.
Mark Johnstone joined the Board on 1 April 2018 as Group Chief A4: Non-executive directors Executive.
The process was described in last years report.
Susan Kilsby has been the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Peter Ventress has been Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee throughout the year.
When Mark Johnstone was appointed Group Chief Executive 64 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 B3: Commitment itwould be more beneficial and valuable to invest the time and money The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have provided in an external review in 2019 and derive a greater benefit from the assurances to the Board that they remain fully committed to their review once the new directors had been on the Board for a longer respective roles and can dedicate the necessary amount of time period of time.
Accordingly, we have not complied with the Code toattend to the Companys affairs.
The Board is satisfied that the requirement to conduct an external review every three years.
Chairman and each of the directors is able to devote sufficient time B7: Re-election tothe Company and its affairs to effectively discharge their duties.
The Board has decided that all Board members with the exception of Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available Susan Kilsby will retire and stand for re-election at the AGM.
Susan for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal Kilsby will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
The business hours at the Companys registered office.
Board believes that each of such directors should be re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to be effective and Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board demonstrates commitment to their role.
beforeaccepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
Section C: Accountability If any director is unable to attend a meeting, they discuss, in advance, C1: Financial and business reporting with the relevant chairman their views on the business of that meeting The Directors responsibility statement for preparing the report so that their position can be represented.
andaccounts is set out on page 95.
B4: Development The business model is within the Strategic Report on pages 8 and 9.
There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which The Going Concern and Viability Statements are set out on page 48 includes site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers, and 49. and the provision of corporate documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is tailored to the background of the new C2: Risk management and internal control directorconcerned.
The induction programmes for the new directors The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the principal risks are described in more detail on page 56. facing the Company and how the risks may impact the Companys prospects.
Overall responsibility for systems of internal control rests The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Corporate with the Board.
The Board reviewed the effectiveness and systems Governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise throughout the year.
The risk management process is described in andreceive topical business briefings.
The Board also keeps itself detail in the risk management section starting on page 42. informed about the Companys activities through a structured programme of visits and presentations from each of the businesses C3: Audit Committee and auditors within the Group and from the Groups function leaders.
Compliance with the Code provisions in respect of the Audit Committee requirements and auditors is contained within the Audit The Board effectiveness review covered training needs.
If any and Risk Committee Report starting on 59. trainingneeds are identified, then plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate resources for developing and Section D: Remuneration updatingthe directors knowledge and skills.
Please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report for further information and in particular: The Board believes that the identification of individual training and development needs is primarily the responsibility of each individual D1: Level and components of remuneration director, bearing in mind the range of experiences and skills that D2: Procedure aredeveloped by their differing portfolios.
See the Annual Report on Remuneration for detail starting on page 68.
B5: Information and support In addition, the fees of the non-executive directors are determined The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive bythe Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief accurate, timely and clear information, with Board and Committee Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
TheCompany arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect oflegalactions against its directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its directors, as described on page 93.
B6: Evaluation In 2018, the Company Secretary conducted the Board evaluation withsupport from Lintstock, a governance advisory firm.
Details of the effectiveness review are on page 54.
Although 2018 was the third year since the last external evaluation, the Board decided not to conduct anexternal review this year because two new NEDs joined the Board inJanuary and Mark Johnstone joined as CEO in April.
The Board felt BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 65 Section E: Relations with shareholders E1: Dialogue with shareholders The Board is kept up to date on the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
The executive directors undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, institutional shareholders, fundmanagers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue with theCompanys providers of finance.
The Board receives formal written reports from its brokers, the executive directors and the Head ofInvestor Relations regarding the views of shareholders following theroadshows that follow the preliminary and half-year results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders.
The Chairman wrote tomajor shareholders ahead of the 2018 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any issues or questions.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also maintain contact, asrequired, with major shareholders about directors remuneration matters.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, asrequired by the Code.
E2: Constructive use of general meetings The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended that the notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd as Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee, Peter Ventress as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director will each be available toanswer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM in 2019.
Shareholders can vote separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM voting are also announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
The Corporate Governance Statement above was approved by the Board on 4 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman
