BOARD OF DIRECTORS Avril Palmer-Baunack Tim Lampert Stephen Gutteridge Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Date of appointment to Board Date of appointment to Board Date of appointment to Board 4 July 2014 30 September 2015 27 August 2015 Committee membership A N R Avril has over 20 years of executive Tim started his career in manufacturing Stephen has an extensive range of industrial experience with leading businesses in the companies before joining a division of and public company experience both as an UK automotive, support services, industrial Bombardier Inc. in finance roles in the UK Executive and Non-Executive Director across engineering and insurance services sectors.
He joined Autologic the oil and gas, utilities, packaging, training Through a number of high profile industry Holdings Plc in 1997 and held various roles and education sectors.
He held the roles of roles, Avril has acquired significant including Finance, Logistics, Projects and Chairman at Nighthawk Energy plc between experience of delivering operational Managing Director.
He was also involved in 2011 and 2014, at President Energy plc improvements and implementing business a number of acquisitions and disposals and, between 2007 and 2011 and also at Star turnarounds, executing organic and ultimately, the successful sale of this company.
Energy Group plc from its IPO through to acquisitive growth strategies and a track its acquisition by Petronas.
record of delivering shareholder value in a Tim was instrumental in the acquisition public environment.
of the BCA Group and has a wide range Stephens executive experience includes of experience of the requirements of his role as Managing Director of Supply at Avril has also held a broad range of growth for large businesses.
Tim is a fellow Seeboard plc during its time as a 1.5bn executive roles throughout the automotive of the Association of Chartered Certified publicly-listed utility company.
Stephen is industry, with experience in companies Accountants.
currently a Non-Executive Director of engaged in vehicle salvage, car hire, Fulcrum Utility Services plc.
auctions, transportation, distribution, logistics, vehicle processing and infrastructure.
Avril was previously Executive Chairman and Deputy CEO of Stobart Group plc, one of the largest British multimodal logistics companies with interests in transport, distribution and infrastructure.
Prior to this Avril was CEO of Autologic Holdings Plc, the largest finished vehicle logistics company in the UK and Europe.
She joined Autologic from Universal Salvage Plc, where she held the position of CEO from March 2005 until the sale of the company to Copart UK Ltd in June 2007.
Avril is also currently Non-Executive Chairman of Redde plc and Safe Harbour Holdings plc.
52 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Piet Coelewij Jon Kamaluddin David Lis Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of appointment to Board Date of appointment to Board Date of appointment to Board 27 August 2015 27 August 2015 28 June 2016 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership A R A N A N R Piet is a multilingual Dutch national who Jon is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered David Lis was Chief Investment Officer, has an extensive international background Accountants and has a strong background Equities and Multi Assets, of Aviva Investors and a proven track record of leading growth in finance, retail and e-commerce.
Jon was, before his retirement in March 2016.
David businesses in innovative and disruptive until October 2013, International Director began his career as an investment analyst business environments.
Piet is CEO of of ASOS plc, having also held the role of at NatWest, following which he became a Wehkamp, the leading online department Finance Director and Company Secretary fund manager at J Rothschild Investment store in the Netherlands.
Prior to that between 2004 and 2009.
He was Management and Morgan Grenfell & Co appointment, Piet was Vice President of instrumental to ASOS plcs significant Limited.
David founded Windsor Investment Global Operations of US-based Sonos, growth and led its global expansion.
Jon Management LLC, serving as managing a wireless HiFi equipment manufacturer, served on the ASOS main board throughout director until its acquisition by RBS fund and he has also held senior positions at his tenure, during which time ASOS market management arm, Capital House Limited.
com in the UK between 2007 and capitalisation grew from 30m to 4bn.
David joined Norwich Union Investment 2011 and at Phillips Consumer Electronics in Management Limited in 1997 later merging China between 2004 and 2006.
Jon is the Senior Independent Director at to form Aviva Investors, before becoming FarFetch.
com, a leading luxury clothing Head of Equities in 2012 and subsequently Piets extensive digital experience and marketplace and Non-Executive Chairman of Chief Investment Officer, Equities and background will support the Groups digital Klarna, a privately owned digital payments Multi Assets.
David is a Non-Executive Director of Melrose Piet is an independent Non-Executive Industries plc and Electra Private Equity plc.
Director of Displaydata Limited, a UK based privately owned technology company.
Committee membership key: A A Audit and Risk Committee Member Committee Chair N Nomination Committee Member N Committee Chair R Remuneration Committee Member R Committee Chair BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
