STRATEGY BCAs strategy is to create value for customers through both acquisitions and organic growth in the automotive sectors in the UK and Europe.
We continue to work with all major market participants to develop and adapt integrated solutions to solve and meet the needs of the participants across the automotive sector, maximising value for all stakeholders.
Short-term Medium-term Long-term The Group will build upon the strengths We will continue to develop our BCA focuses on activities that are of its fulfilment capabilities, physical real operations through both organic growth non-core to OEMs, vehicle sellers and estate, knowledge and automotive and tactical acquisitions, with a focus vehicle owners, providing solutions relationships to enhance its operations upon the intelligent use of data and at scale.
and integrated solutions in both the UK other innovations.
In Europe, the Group will Opportunities arising out of change seek to expand its footprint.
Working The Group will seek to deepen the in-life in the automotive industry are a with customers, the Group will adapt service relationship, drive efficiencies and fundamental aspect of BCAs success.
services and solutions to meet the deliver value to the vehicles keeper.
Identifying opportunities is an integral changing needs of the automotive part of the process of developing market at scale.
strategies and drawing up forecasts.
The scale of the Groups infrastructure, Short-term divisional objectives are capability and the portfolio of products included in the divisional review on and services equip us to respond to a pages 27, 29, 35 and 39. wide range of developing automotive needs across the UK and Europe.
14 14 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 Strategic report Governance Financials DELIVERING VALUE For shareholders For corporate owners OEMs, Attractive returns based upon a proven strategy, fleet operators and lease providers strong management team and sustainable competitive Ability to fully outsource vehicle management, advantages.
conditioning, driver contact and logistical moves.
Strong earnings potential Diverse revenue streams Large scale physical Transportation network Cash generative business History of performing estate for storage allowing efficient model when economic growth Integrated real-time collection and delivery Opportunities for organic is suppressed tracking of vehicles Refurbishment and and acquisitive growth Investment in the Groups Geographical coverage preparation capabilities long-term sustainable reducing logistics costs to retain value growth plans Reduced time and Progressive dividend depreciation to vehicle policy sale Targeted pay-out ratio of 75% of earnings in the medium term For remarketing buyers For remarketing vendors Fulfilling sourcing needs via the largest aggregation Optimised price performance and sale conversion of stock, providing choice, convenience and value.
rates of used vehicles through a route that maximises financial return, speed and convenience.
Availability of a wide Excellent vehicle choice of stock across presentation Integrated services Full portfolio of auction marques, models, Full calendar of sales optimising returns services for best ages and conditions throughout the year to vendors presentation of vehicles Clarity of vehicle Stock funding service Promotion of vehicles including appraisal, condition providing through BCA Partner including BCA Search valeting and BCA Assured buying confidence Finance, for managing cash and online aggregation Bidding buying demand Market leading aggregator flow and as an additional of all vehicles achieved through buyer showing all stock with source of lending Comprehensive vehicle base diversity comprehensive vehicle Delivery of vehicles descriptions including Efficient valuation, information including Assistance with onward age, mileage, collection and guide pricing, giving vehicle marketing e. g. specification, condition, refurbishment services confidence to buy online imagery guide pricing and images For WeBuyAnyCar customers For employees An alternative disposal option to part-exchange An innovative, co-operative and motivating or private sale.
Accessible, online used Quick and efficient Attract and retain the vehicle valuation on-site process best employees Transparent process Convenient locations Rewarding careers with Any make, model or and opening hours opportunities for training condition purchased Secure payment available and progression within two hours Develop knowledge and skills Safe and fair working environment Established graduate scheme and workforce training programme BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 A TRACK RECORD OF FINANCIAL GROWTH BCA has consistently delivered growth in adjusted EBITDA and Operating Profit over six consecutive results announcements since its admission to the Main Market in 2015.
Float on LSE 2015 2015 acquisitions 2016 acquisitions Inclusion in FTSE 250 2 April 2015 1 June 2015 4 February 2016 16 October 2017 BCA Group acquired by SMA Vehicle Remarketing Ambrosetti UK acquired vehicle Premium Listing Haversham Holdings, Float on acquired auction business preparation business the London Stock Exchange LSE 18 December 2017 as BCA Marketplace plc 25 August 2015 18 July 2016 Included in the FTSE 250, FTSE BCA Automotive acquired Paragon Group acquired 350 and FTSE All-Share indices automotive logistics business automotive services group 31 March 2017 Supreme Wheels acquired alloy wheel refurbishment business 16 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
