Y C N E L R I Q A P U I S D N I A T Y R T A D N N D A V Y A C L N U E E I C I F F E OUR BUSINESS TODAY Business model Remarketing services are at the core of the Groups business model, managing vehicle transactions between vendors and buyers.
This is complemented by a broad range of value-added services that fuel the marketplace.
Customers Products V B CAR SUPERMARKET E CAR BUYING AUCTION VIEW BCA DEALER PRO U N LIVE ONLINE INDEPENDENT DEALER DEALER Y BCA INSPECT PRO D WHITE LABEL FRANCHISE DEALER E CORPORATE PLATFORMS O AUTOSONSHOW BUYER APP R TRADER R OEM S S Supply is generated from a wide range of customers who use and the public who recognise the value, scale, choice and footprint auction as their primary disposal channel and who appreciate the offered by BCA.
transparency, efficiency and liquidity provided by BCA.
Vendors include OEMs, car dealerships, rental, contract hire, leasing and The Groups systems capture information at key stages of the finance companies.
Another key source of supply is from the vehicles life.
The data is used to generate insight to optimise the Groups Vehicle Buying division.
divisions performance as well as to provide insight to customers.
Knowledge of a vehicles history and condition allows for efficient Demand is generated by a large, diverse buyer base scheduling of refurbishment, repair and remarketing.
that ranges from large car supermarkets to vehicle traders BCA connects the marketplace BCA provides joined up, aggregated solutions to support the efficient change of vehicle ownership.
Our solutions include: Leasing, fleet and OEMs rental companies Dealers Buyers Consumers Transport Storage and dock facilities Inspection Preparation Remarketing Vehicle buying Fleet and inventory management Vehicle enhancement and refurbishment Vehicles lose their value throughout their life and have high holding costs BCA's integrated approach minimises holding periods, thereby maximising residual value.
In performing our services, BCA can take title to vehicles in outsourced remarketing contracts and within the vehicle buying businesses.
Our exposure to residual pricing risks is minimised given the short holding period of the vehicles and the accuracy of our pricing tools.
Our remarketing buyer fees are stepped so do not hold a 1:1 relationship with vehicle value, thereby minimising the commercial impact of marginal changes in vehicle values on the business.
6 6 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 E G A D R E A V T A O C A C N I D H P I N A F R O G R O M E G A T & I O E N L A C S Strategic report Governance Financials What makes us unique Our scale, coverage, liquidity, efficiency, transparency and data make us unique.
In our markets we have more data on vehicle condition related to value than our competitors, driving greater value and liquidity for our customers.
As the largest vehicle BCA Automotive has the largest webuyanycar.
com has an 80% remarketing company in Europe UK transporter fleet, with more market share of consumer car BCA processes more vehicles transporters than the 2nd and buying and provided 12.5m than anyone else.
In the UK, 3rd largest UK automotive quotes in the year to UK BCA auctions more vehicles than logistics providers combined consumers all the other vehicle auction companies combined 1.4 million 2.2 million 23 million vehicles sold in 2018 vehicles transported in 2018 website visits in 2018 BCA Dealer Pro and BCA BCA stores more vehicles than Where BCA takes ownership, Our extensive data, based on MarketPrice platforms provided anyone else, and has the largest we sell the vehicles in under real vehicle transaction values, 3.4m valuations in the year for fide-fleet and refurbishment two weeks, thereby minimising is current, updated daily and business customers.
Our pricing capability in the UK the impact of depreciation on based on short cycle times.
tools draw on actual sales prices vehicle values It provides realistic value realised through our remarketing information to dealers channels 3.4 million 200,000 218,000 200 valuations for business cars on estate at 1 April 2018 vehicles purchased from UK up to 200 data points customers consumers collected per vehicle BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
