DIVISIONAL REVIEWS The Vehicle Remarketing divisions, which Vehicle Remarketing facilitated the sale of nearly 1.4m vehicles in the last year, operate in two distinct markets: Vehicle Remarketing is the marketplace for vehicles, the UK trading right-hand drive vehicles and enabling efficient changes of ownership through digital our international markets trading principally left-hand drive vehicles.
The International and physical auctions in the UK and Europe.
Our Vehicle Remarketing division enables the sale marketplace brings together vendors and buyers, providing and export of vehicles across country borders as well as within local domestic markets.
speed of vehicle disposal and access to the latest market In the UK, auctions are the primary volume pricing for vendors and an unrivalled choice of consistently disposal channel for corporates and dealers, graded available stock to buyers.
whilst there is a significant opportunity to increase auction penetration in Europe.
1.4m 32.3% 68.6% Vehicles sold Online sales UK Online sales Europe 2 24 4 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Physical auction Outsourced solutions Physical auctions are a key element of the Our remarketing solutions include multimarketplace, bringing a wide range of vehicles channel digital marketing and telesales to together in each location.
This creates an allocate volume to a variety of remarketing environment where buyers can view vehicles, channels: white label platforms allow franchise participate in the auction and observe local dealers to view, access and purchase available competitors market activity.
stock: driver sales support direct sales of vehicles coming off lease: closed auctions Across our 51 auction sites, buyers can view enable remarketing of vehicles to selected the inventory, bid for vehicles, pay for customer groups: and ultimately digital and purchases and arrange delivery.
physical auctions provide broad access to independent dealers and car supermarkets.
Our Buy Now proposition offers direct sale of vehicles prior to allocation into other remarketing channels.
BCAs outsourced remarketing solutions are provided in the UK to OEMs, fleet and leasing companies, enabling customers to choose which elements of vehicle processing which are non core for their operations they wish to outsource.
23 28 UK auction European auction centres centres Services BCA offers a range of services that enhance Digital auctions the marketability of vehicles by improving the information available to buyers offering clarity BCA Live Online runs online vehicle auctions regarding the vehicles condition: simultaneously with, or independently of, physical auctions.
Inspection and grading Valuation eAuctions provides exclusively online auctions Imaging and video with a physical auctioneer.
Collection and delivery BCA Assured BCAs online platforms allow buyers to BCA Partner Finance purchase with the same confidence as at a physical auction.
In three countries, France, Sweden and Switzerland, BCA operates auctions exclusively online.
A dedicated messaging service enables engagement with the auction clerk during the sale, along with instant visibility of the proxy bid.
The online platform has advanced search tools to identify vehicles and provides a seven day purchase history.
Vehicle information, available electronically, enables online buyers to participate alongside physical buyers in auctions across multiple centres from one location.
Bid Now provides time limited online auctions which are not run alongside physical auctions or with a physical auctioneer.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 25 25 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS UK Vehicle Remarketing 1.0m Vehicles sold Where we operate Auction locations UK Partner Finance Partner Finance part-exchange Partner Finance branded auctions During the year, the Partner Finance offering has been expanded For car dealers, stock derived from part-exchanges, that is not to include part-exchange financing: aligned with the dealers profile, ties up valuable capital and space on forecourts.
BCA Partner Finance branded auctions provide a U sing BCA Dealer Pro, selected dealers can value simple solution.
part-exchange vehicles in relation to retail sales P artner Finance will fund the part-exchange vehicle Our new sales section offering BCA Partner Finance part-exchange for up to 120 days vehicles is attractive to buyers: it brings together vehicles from a variety of sources to deliver a varied programme of makes and Partner Finance is straightforward and convenient, optimising models, ages and specifications.
cash flow and freeing up working capital, making it easier to do business 2 26 6 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Developments Short-term objectives During the year remarketing site Continue to win volume through strong developments have delivered capacity customer relationships increases: Secure volume for the long-term and grow to optimal scale Capacity increased through the opening of Grow BCA Partner Finance the new Manchester Auction Centre with Enhance BCA product suite five vehicle lanes, and development of the Expand digital information flow Bedford Auction Centre Increase efficiency through use of Leases of eight of our larger auction technology at auction branches centres were renegotiated for a term of Expand outsourced solutions 25 years We continue to assess opportunities to further expand capacity at existing and new sites Land acquired for development at existing auction centres Interesting facts Oldest car sold: a Wolseley 1500, first registered in 1957 Highest hammer price: 245,000 for a Lamborghini Murcielago SuperVeloce Most common vehicle: Volkswagen Golf Services over 42,000 Hybrid and electric: volume up 36.0% in Improvements in BCA Dealer Pro, BCAs cloud the year based appraisal and valuation tool, have simplified the vehicle remarketing process for dealers see pages 13 and 30 40,000 vehicles are valued each week, helping dealers to consistently manage part-exchange administration Dealer Pro contributes to an efficient, consistent part-exchange process across BCA UK Remarketing has solus dealership groups or preferred relationships with: Allows dealers to select inventory to retain in the dealership group and directly push other vehicles to auction BCA has the latest live auction prices fed directly into our valuation tools, providing a high level of accuracy for customers 7 10 Improvements in vehicle entry and Top 10 Fleet News information display have contributed to leasing companies operating efficiency and enhanced customer experience.
BCA Buyer app see page 13 is providing relevant information to buyers to improve and streamline their experience.
8 10 Top 10 Motor Trader dealer groups B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 27 27 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS International Vehicle Remarketing 362,000 Vehicles sold Where we operate Auction locations 28 28 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Building one market Brokered transport solution Through BCAs online platforms, European During the year, we established a new auctions bring together buyers from 55 operation to provide brokered transport countries.
In order to make this process as solutions within International Vehicle efficient and seamless as possible for buyers, Remarketing.
Where buyers purchase vehicles branch appraisal and imaging, processes and from BCA in one location to export to another systems are being standardised to provide a country, the buyer requires transport services.
consistent buyer experience across the BCA network.
This maximises the choice of vehicles BCA has the ability to aggregate vehicles and for buyers and increases the number of buyers coordinate transport for faster delivery to the participating at each auction.
Brokered transport moved 2,754 to drive the penetration of Live Online in vehicles in its first seven months.
During the year, 55,703 vehicles were sold and exported to another country 2017: 45,275, an increase of 23.0%.
Buyers from Short-term objectives Grow volume through raising vendors auction awareness 55,703 Standardise processes and tools Vehicles were sold and exported to and employ best practice 55 another country Build one market across Europe Deliver a consistent buyer experience countries Expand service offering Increase awareness and uptake of BCA MarketPrice INTERNATIONAL B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 2 29 9 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS CASE STUDIES BCA in Partnership with Vertu Motors plc In April 2017, the Group was pleased to announce an exclusive five year vehicle remarketing agreement with Vertu Motors plc, a nationwide dealer group that operates over 120 outlets across the UK, with vehicles from more than 20 manufacturers.
This represents one of the largest partnerships in the UK vehicle remarketing industry and will provide significant benefits to both Vertu Motors and BCA.
Part-exchange vehicles from Vertu Motors are sold nationwide at BCAs physical auction centres as well as being available to BCA Live Online customers.
All eligible vehicles are offered under the BCA Assured scheme, building buyer confidence.
Vertu Motors has adopted AutosOnShows specialist vehicle guided imagery application, ensuring that used vehicle imagery is consistent and of a high quality across the business.
Robert Forrester, CEO of Vertu Motors plc said: BCA offers an integrated and innovative approach to remarketing, together with complementary services such as BCA Dealer Pro and vehicle guided imagery that meet the needs of our dealer network.
Uniquely in the UK marketplace, BCA has the scope, capacity and substantial buying power to efficiently manage the large volumes of stock generated by our nationwide dealer network back into the wholesale sector.
30 30 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials BCA Partner Finance Partner Finance is designed with the dealer in mind Partner Finance funding has now been extended to include part-exchange vehicles, making stocking decisions more accessible.
Customers can appraise part-exchange vehicles through the BCA Dealer Pro app and determine whether they wish to retain these as Partner Finance funded retail stock or remarket them immediately through BCA.
BCA Partner Finance offers both franchised and independent dealers of all sizes up to 120 days funding on vehicles purchased at BCA auction centres.
This was the first finance product to be launched that is specifically designed for the UK remarketing sector.
From its site in Warrington, Cheshire, the Rix Motor Company markets prestige cars to customers across the UK.
It has built a reputation for excellent service and sees customers returning time after time for its large selection of vehicles.
Mr Reg Rix is the founder of the Rix Motor Company.
He first started working with BCA in 1975 and has valued the support offered to his business over the years.
Mr Rix said: 1,200 The efficiency of Partner Finance has enabled us to grow over 160% in the last three years.
We now have a nationwide Customers helped with reputation for stocking prestige vehicles.
finance facilities Partner Finance gives us the flexibility to source the best stock through BCAs network of auction sites and online facilities.
The funds are transferred immediately and the vehicle is often on the way to our forecourt on the same day, meaning that we can retail it immediately.
I value the genuine partnership I have with BCA and Partner Finance.
They take the time to understand my business, and we are growing together in a mutually beneficial relationship.
The part-exchange process has been much improved with the integration of Partner Finance into the Dealer Pro platform.
It means I can fund the part-exchange or send it to BCA to remarket at the push of a button.
It helps us close more sales, more efficiently.
Partner Finance is designed with the dealer in mind, and I think it is peerless in this sector.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 31 31 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS CASE STUDIES AutosOnShow Taking imaging from wholesale to retail AutosOnShow AOS is enabling Volvo Car UK to benefit from a wholesale method of producing retail quality imagery and video of vehicles.
A vehicle can be shared around a retailer network or placed on a customer facing portal as soon as it is imaged at the fide-fleet centre.
The approach radically shortens the time between fide-fleet, retailer forecourt and retail sale.
High-quality images, video and a 360o slider of a vehicle are captured at BCA preparation centres and advertised immediately on Volvos internal retailer sites.
As soon as the vehicle has been bought by a Volvo retailer, its digital information automatically appears on the central Volvo Used Car Stock Locator and can be featured immediately on the retailers website.
The vehicle is acquired and advertised by the retailer before being physically moved.
Bruce Greenwood, National Used Car Programme Manager, Volvo Car UK said We have been extremely impressed with the professionalism of the team at AutosOnShow and their continual evolution of the product.
The fact that we havent mandated their solution across the network and yet 80% of retailers are using it is a testament to the quality and ease of use of the product.
We have seen a vast improvement in the quality of imagery and consistency across the network since using the AOS Solution.
An essential element for the retailers is the higher efficiency they experience within their retailer operations and the new wholesale to retail solution improves this even further!
Andy Kirkham, Sales Manager at Paul Rigby Volvo Stourbridge said Having the ability to get the vehicles images on our website as soon as weve bought them is fantastic!
We can be advertising the vehicle up to 5 days before it even arrives on our forecourt.
32 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials The system is so effective, it enables us to image all of our vehicles centrally, ensuring consistently high quality images.
There is a huge efficiency gain as we can get the images to the retailer immediately.
AutosOnShow keep evolving their solution and we are keen to stay ahead of the game.
Graeme Oswald, National Remarketing Manager, Volvo Car UK BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS The division provides an easy route of Vehicle Buying vehicle disposal for UK consumers, increasing flexibility and their buying webuyanycar.
com is the UKs leading car buying service, power in choosing a subsequent vehicle.
leveraging its proprietary online pricing quotation system and As the clear market leader in consumer vehicle buying, we continue to attract rapid physical and electronic sale process.
WeBuyAnyCar new customers and provide a positive purchases used vehicles directly from the public in the UK, and experience with a five star Trust-pilot rating.
The number of repeat customers continues disposes of them through the UK Vehicle Remarketing division.
to grow, demonstrating their increased trust in the brand and the value they attach to the vehicle disposal process.
In Europe, vehicle buying focuses on purchasing batches of The division provides a diverse, controlled vehicles from corporates, providing mix and diversity to auction supply of vehicles into the UK Vehicle inventory in the International Vehicle Remarketing division.
Remarketing division, with the proportion of vehicles sourced from this third disposal channel representing over 20% of UK Remarketing volume.
Through a varied auction programme, the average WeBuyAnyCar vehicle is sold within ten days of purchase, maximising 227 efficiency and minimising the Groups exposure to the risk of price changes.
WeBuyAnyCar sites 34 34 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Developments Short-term objectives During the year WeBuyAnyCar launched a UK new advertising campaign Grow volume through promoting Where we operate the third disposal channel Strengthening trust in the webuyanycar.
com Our locations are conveniently Continue to broaden the appeal of brand, building on strong brand recognition located close to our customers.
the WeBuyAnyCar brand Aligning the WeBuyAnyCar brands with Continue to improve customer service a trusted celebrity, Philip Schofield Provide vehicle mix and volume to Linking the brand with Dancing on Ice, the UK Vehicle Remarketing division a large and popular show reaching huge Maintain high levels of trust in the brand audiences International In Europe, vehicle buying in Denmark and Seed new sites and sale days in Europe Sweden has expanded, with many vehicles Provide vehicle mix and volume to the being sold through export auctions to buyers International Vehicle Remarketing division across Europe.
Interesting facts Oldest car purchased: 1978 MG Midget 1500 Highest value vehicle purchased: Rolls-Royce Wraith Coupe at over Services 216,000.
Rarest purchases: During the year WeBuyAnyCar has improved Corvette Stingray accessibility for customers, opening new Ford Dorchester locations near to customers, increasing the 16 Lamborghini Gallardo Spyder availability of appointments through extended Pontiac Firebird Average drive to a opening hours and weekend operation, WeBuyAnyCar location making it easier for our customers to do is 16 minutes business with us Vehicle buying locations increased from 206 to 227 as at 1 April 2018 Locations are close to our customers an average drive of 16 minutes 27% 80% of vehicle buying locations are open for business seven days a week of all vehicles purchased 2017: 33% were superminis Improving the consumer experience with easier to identify, more comfortable pods B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 35 35 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS CASE STUDY Easiest transaction ever and for more cash than any trade-in offer I had.
Customers view WeBuyAnyCar as straightforward, transparent and above all trustworthy WeBuyAnyCar has continued to focus on building trust with customers, once again achieving a 5 star out of 5 rating on Trust-pilot.
This reflects the speed, efficiency, straightforwardness and value provided by the service.
During the year, WeBuyAnyCar has maintained its position as the UKs market leading vehicle buying service.
The quick, easy and safe service for consumers continues to drive double digit growth year on year, from a combination of new customers and increasing levels of repeat business, reflecting greater recognition and trust in the brand.
We have continued to focus on making the service more convenient for customers, with longer opening hours and more sites opening seven days a week.
We have also continued to invest in additional retail locations, with 21 site openings in the year bringing the total to 227 locations across the UK.
A consumer is normally able to conclude the sale of their car within 60 minutes of obtaining a quote online.
A combination of strong brand, customer trust and quality service means that WeBuyAnyCar is well positioned for future growth.
36 36 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Very Easy To Use - As straightforward and understandable as the TV ads show!
I would certainly use the service again.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 37 37 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS With its national network of sites, BCA has Automotive Services industry leading capacity and the ability to provide efficient solutions and economies of BCA has significant physical infrastructure, comprising scale spanning new vehicle, fleet solutions land for storage, facilities for services and the UKs largest and fide-fleet services.
transporter fleet, combined with digital platforms to Through the integration of the acquired manage and track vehicles.
businesses, service delivery is more connected, improving coverage, efficiency and service levels.
The division comprises four core operations: BCA Vehicle Services, BCA Fleet Solutions, BCA Automotive and BCA Logistics.
BCA Vehicle Services provides new vehicle services Reception, customs management and handling at port or factory gate Pre-delivery inspection and preparation Storage and compound management Warranty and servicing Customisation and accessory fitment BCA Fleet Solutions delivers fleet management, fide-fleet and refurbishment services Fleet management Fleet reporting Refurbishment and fide-fleet BCA Automotive handles bulk logistics Through a fleet of over 800 transporters 800 BCA Logistics provides single vehicle movements Transporters Inspect and collect Single vehicle moves 38 38 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Developments Services During the year the division has developed a BCA Inspect Pro app used for in-life number of existing and new relationships and and fide-fleet vehicle inspections invested in infrastructure: Method to refurbish and improve Commenced operations at Southampton own vehicles developed with the  Alliance Opportunity to improve grade 265,000 for whom we are now sole port of entry Increase sale value operator Without significant increase in stock Inspections undertaken in 2018 Continued to win UK storage and holding period refurbishment contracts for OEMs New contracts with leading vehicle rental Commenced development of a new companies dedicated customer fide-fleet centre Increased delivery of internal movements Continued investment in Electric Vehicle for the UK Vehicle Remarketing division, EV charging points at vehicle servicing increasing utilisation and efficiency for the centres transporter fleet and Group BCA Logistics moved to a new centralised operational headquarters located in Solihull providing increased capacity Increased Automotive fleet capacity with additional transporters Short-term objectives I ntegrate further to provide a more efficient operating model Further expand the suite of value added services Efficient coordination of movements between divisions Where we operate Package solutions for customers across all Group divisions Refurbish and upgrade own vehicles for onward sale Interesting facts BCA Automotive transporters travelled 39 million miles last year a distance that 2.7m would reach Mars Vehicles moved by Vehicles stored, refurbished and processed by transporters and Automotive Services during the year plated drivers in 2018 numbered 680,000 BCA Inspect Pro provided 265,000 vehicle inspections over the year Vehicle Services Fleet Solutions B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 39 39 DIVISIONAL REVIEWS CASE STUDY 40 40 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Vehicle Services:  Alliance Building on its long-term relationships, BCA is now the sole provider of UK port of entry services to the  Alliance BCA has enjoyed a relationship with the Alliance spanning more than 30 years.
We provide a range of services including management of UK import activities at the ports of Tyne and Portbury.
In recognition of the technology and processes developed as part of this service BCA has been recognised with an Innovation Award at the European Renault-Nissan Logistics Convention.
During the year BCA was delighted to be awarded the contract to manage the remaining port of entry activity at the Alliances facility at Southampton Docks, making BCA the sole provider of their UK port of entry services.
The three import centres now receive more than 200,000 vehicles annually from manufacturing facilities in Europe, India and Japan.
The awarding of the Southampton business to BCA was based on a successful tender activity that not only provided a cost competitive solution for the Alliance but also provided synergy benefits in quality, training and standardisation.
BCA now provide the Alliance services in all three of our import centres and with this bring the opportunity for us to react with greater flexibility and agility across our import centres while building on the services we can offer to our customers in the future.
Chris Godfrey General Manager, Alliance Logistics Europe Outbound Engineering, Alliance Supply Chain Management B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 41 41
