MARKET OVERVIEW Uniquely positioned providing solutions through our combined infrastructure of regional fide-fleet facilities, vehicle logistics and preparation centres and a suite of remarketing channels, including digital and physical auctions.
THE LARGEST INTEGRATED AUTOMOTIVE SOLUTION PROVIDER POST-MANUFACTURE The typical 12-15 year lifecycle of a vehicle involves four to five changes of owner, providing opportunities for BCA to provide services to the keeper and to both parties on each transfer of ownership.
12-15yrs Average lifecycle of a vehicle Vehicle buying For more information see page 34 Vehicle Remarketing For more information see page 24 At the end of a vehicles life there are decisions around salvage, the recycling of parts and eventual disposal.
Strategic report Governance Financials Automotive Services For more information see page 38 During the vehicles life with each owner there are opportunities for multiple services such as service and repair to be coordinated and administered.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 DIGITAL JOURNEY THE CONNECTED MARKETPLACE Delivering smart digital solutions BCA has been supporting customers with digital products for over Leveraging developments in consumer and business technology, 20 years.
Over that time, our trusted position as a solutions provider from data warehouses through smartphones to robotic process in the automotive industry has been supported by evolving automation and machine-learning, BCA puts technology to work in platforms that serve our customer and business needs.
We have supporting its many customers across the UK and Europe.
acquired and developed a market-leading portfolio of platforms and applications that power our business day-to-day, including: In the past year BCAs digital teams have shifted towards smart, iterative product development based on agile and other Cutting-edge imagery and video processing methodologies: working in small multi-disciplinary teams to Real-time online auctions anticipate and meet customer needs based on data insights.
Online vehicle buying Two recent app launches see opposite page demonstrate this White-label inventory management and remarketing evolution.
Vehicle appraisal and grading Browsable, searchable catalogues Automotive is an increasingly data-driven industry: our multiple Vehicle valuation touch points across the life of a vehicle, supported by considerable Inspection and transport management investment in data quality, data warehousing and analysis, give BCA and our customers a genuine advantage in everything from smart transport management to transactional margins.
Data is the life-blood of everything we do at BCA, helping us to help our customers and drive the success of our business.
12 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials BCA Dealer app Next generation BCA Dealer app delivers a streamlined, efficient customer experience The accuracy of part-exchange valuations is critical to BCAs dealer customers, who need to ensure that they secure new vehicle sales without losing value when remarketing part-exchanged vehicles.
Dealers are aiming to build longer-term relationships with their customers by providing a seamless and efficient service, including real-time appraisal and valuation of part-exchange vehicles.
This app is quick and simple to use: used on the forecourt with the customer, it provides transparency and builds trust.
The Groups existing BCA Dealer Pro tool provides more than 2.2m part-exchange appraisals and valuations each year to dealer customers.
This allows dealers to free up valuable forecourt space by allocating vehicles directly to auctions.
70% of our dealer volume is sourced through Dealer Pro.
We listened to our dealer customers and understood that they wished to simplify and streamline the part-exchange process for their customers.
We have developed an enhanced, next generation app to address this requirement.
BCA Buyer app BCA Buyer app ensures that a buyer never misses an opportunity to bid Extensive face-to-face and online research with customers identified a need for an app providing real-time access to live auction information to support the buying process.
BCA Buyer app was developed to address these needs.
BCA Buyer app is a tool for both physical and digital customers, with a smartphone application facilitating more efficient navigation of the auction buying process.
BCA Buyer app enables buyers to access live information on the vehicles they are looking for at multiple auction centres, including pricing, vehicle condition, bids and individual lot auction timings.
Notifications that selected vehicles are approaching their auction slots ensure that buyers do not miss the opportunity to place their bid, either in the auction hall or online.
If a buyer fails to secure a target vehicle, notifications straight to the buyers smartphone identify similar vehicles in upcoming auctions.
BCA Buyer app was built for and with customers to significantly improve the experience of both physical and online auctions.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
