12 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Signature Number 1 global FBO operator and service provider to the B&GA industry, serving customers at more than 400 FBO locations covering key markets inNorthAmerica, Europe, South America, theCaribbean, Africa and Asia.
Customer and partner touchpoints Aircraft on the ramp at Signature Nashville BNA.
Signature handled more than 1.6million Flight Passenger Aircrew Real Estate aircraft movements in 2018.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 13 At a glance Key services High-quality, full service flight support 85 % forB&GAtravel including fuelling, of 2018 continuing Group groundhandling, passenger and  conciergeservices andamenities Technical support, line and heavy maintenance, inspection and Aircraft 1.6 m onGround AOG services through Aircraft movements handled SignatureTECHNICAir atkeylocations bySignature in 2018 Over 1,600 QTPod self-serve fuel  72 % EPIC fuel purchasing card Signature and EPIC network  covers72% ofthe fuel burn Signature ELITE Class offering Signature inthetop200 US airports service to commercial travellers Aircraft management and charter services through Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft 13.7m sq ft Management Signatures Service with a Leading Edge cultural orientation Hangar, terminal and office workshop is mandatory for all recently hired employees.
The Hangarage for overnight parking workshop engages team members with the Signature Service spaceunder management andhome-based aircraft Promise and gives them the knowledge and the toolsto provide inthe USA consistent, expert service to meet the customers needs.
1 Signature and EPIC operations Signature locations North America, 129 Central America, the Caribbean Europe 26 South America 19 Africa 1 Asia 3 Signature Select locations North America, 11 Central America, the Caribbean Europe 6 Africa 1 EPIC locations Branded locations 202 all in North America Unbranded locations 121 all in North America 1 Locations at 28 February 2019.
Signatures South American network operates under a joint venture agreement with Lider Aviao.
14 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Business & General Aviation market The B&GA market covers thousands of aircraft, large aircraft, with 64% currently based in North America, and small, outside the commercial and military fleets.
and a further 12% in Europe, Signatures second Private and business travellers use B&GA aircraft as largest market.
aproductivity, efficiency and leisure tool, particularly The global fleet is expected to grow by 14% over inNorth America where there are significant distances thenext ten years and the FAA predicts growth between large conurbations and a lack of efficient inUSbusiness jet flight hours of an average 2.7% alternative travel options.
B&GA travel is driven by corporate confidence and B&GA flight hours, aircraft movements and asset wealth creation, with a long-term, through cycle utilisation are key drivers for Signature and EPIC.
correlation to GDP and corporate profits.
Increased activity means more arrivals and departures The global installed fleet of business jets and and a higher uptake of fuel and other services across turboprops is estimated to be more than 32,000 the network.
TM A Signature TECHNICAir technician evaluates an avionics installation US ight hours correlation to GDP US ight hours correlation to corporate profits onaCessna Citation series aircraft.
4500 4500 2 For example, the R of 0.86 indicates that 86% of the variance in ight hours 4000 4000 can be explained by GDP.
US GDP Billions in chained 2012 dollars US corporate profits $bn Sources: U. S. Bureau of Economic Analysis and GAMA 2018 Annual Report.
Sources: St Louis Fed Economic Research and GAMA 2018 Annual Report.
Note:Flight hours data for 2018 was not available at the time of publication of this report.
US ight movements and GDP US GDP Billions in chained 2012 Dollars FAA ight movements thousands 20000 3000 2500 16000 2000 12000 1500 8000 1000 4000 500 0 0 Sources: U. S. Bureau of Economic Analysis and FAA.
Fleet with unknown operating region excluded from analysis.
Source: Roland Berger 2 Asia includes Pacific Rim.
2018 market Signatures key market measure is US B&GA confidence in the second half of the year, flying activity FAA aircraft movements.
adeferral of decision making, andareduction Movements increased by 0.9% in 2018, an indiscretionary flying, which has been particularly outcome that was lower than expected given notable in our charter customer segment.
GDP growth remained positive across the year.
September faced tough prior year In the first quarter, US B&GA movements comparatives, which had been positively grew2.7%.
However, as the year progressed, impacted by flying activity around the 2017 itbecame clear that the sector had entered hurricanes.
This led to a slight dip in movements A Signature supervisor and Line Service Technician perform a aperiod of disconnect between positive in the third quarter.
However, the market scheduled inspection of a fuel truck.
Signature has more than GDPgrowth and flying activity.
returned to growth in the fourth quarter.
800 pieces of equipment in its North American fuelling fleet.
Uncertainty around the US trade tariffs andaslowdown in China are believed to havecontributed to a decline in business B&GA aircraft movement trends USA and Europe US ight activity monthly year on year % change Europe ight activity monthly year on year % change 15% 10% 5% 0% -5% -10% Sources: FAA ETMSC and EUROCONTROL ESRA 08.
Jan 11 Jul 11 Jan 12 Jul 12 Jan 13 Jul 13 Jan 14 Jul 14 Jan 15 Jul 15 Jan 16 Jul 16 Jan 17 Jul 17 Jan 17 Jul 17 Jan 18 Jul 18 Dec 18 16 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Competitive advantages Largest international network of locations Well positioned for new and renewal airport including 45 sole source Signature locations FBOopportunities inNorth America Large scale infrastructure capable of handling Industry leading network relevancy high volume operations 37 Signature locations at top 50 US airports Highly recognised and valued customer brands including all of top ten Strong relationships with key customers Of the top 200 US B&GA locations, Signature andhigh loyalty scores andEPIC present at locations where 72% EPIC and Signature Select FBO franchise offuel isburned andlicensing models Signature present at 13 of the top 20 home Fuel buying power bases for business aircraft in the USA Highly trained teams empowered to deliver Signature present at both ends of 33 of personalised customer experiences the50most trafficked city pairs in the USA Technology base that supports customer Long-term, quality real estate assets: average journey and captures market customer remaining lease life of 17 years across knowledge Signatures FBO portfolio in North America Acquisition of EPIC The acquisition of EPIC significantly strengthens More customers transacting using the card will ourSignature network offer to customers with the savecosts and increase customer stickiness to 202 addition of 202 privately owned branded FBOs theSignature brand.
Current penetration of the Brandedlocations andover 120 unbranded FBOs.
Signature fuel card in the network is about 5% but, assuming a penetration rate in line with the EPIC card Pre-EPIC, Signature was buying c. 275 million gallons in the EPIC network, we could reach 25% capture.
The combined network will buy 121 more than 500 million gallons, allowing us to leverage We also acquired EPICs proprietary QTPod Unbranded locations our fuel buying power and, potentially, move upstream technology for self-fuelling AvGas services, which to the refiners, with associated cost benefits.
iscurrently installed at more than 1,600 locations.
This has the potential to expand our footprint in The acquisition allows Signature to take full end-to- 1,600 theaviation industry via a cloud-based, self-serve end management of the existing Signature EPIC fuel QTPod self-serve fuel terminal that provides a fuelling solution for typically card programme, associated transaction processing installations low-volume airports.
Furthermore, EPIC has a wealth and data capture, as a platform for an enhanced of experience in procuring military contracts and can service offering across the entire network.
now offer a greater value proposition by leveraging Signatures fuel infrastructure.
EPIC is a very effective, asset-lite network extension.
As we integrate the EPIC locations, our goal is todeliver a common customer experience across alllocations and brands through utilising common technology, network pricing and enhanced loyalty programme offerings.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 17 Technology transforming the Signature customer experience A significant IT investment at Signature will transform our current standard point of sale system to a fully integrated global FBO management system.
The new Signet 2.0 systemgives our customer-facing team members the tools toincrease consistency of service delivery and customer experience across the Signature network and will be the firsttime that our US and EMEA teams will utilise the same platform.
This significantly simplifies the technology footprint of the business, thus reducing complexity and, at the same time, increasing our operational flexibility and data management and capture.
Transitioning to the new technology will require focused change management to support our end users and we will utilise the learnings from the transition of our Landmark FBOsites to Signature systems to smooth this process.
Overall, our aim is to make it easier for our customers to dobusiness with Signature and empower our field teams, whether it be our customer service representatives, our Signatures new global FBO management system lineservice technicians or our general managers, to make will increase consistency of service delivery and customer experience across the Signature network.
data-based decisions that benefit both us and our customers.
Strategy to capture growth Investment in people and real estate to drive Organic growth network quality and customer experience Smart technology to deliver efficient and differentiated service Relationships with airport partners to deliver lease extensions new opportunities Extension of EPIC fuel card and QTPod technology Network agreements and contract management Core revenue Customer behaviour segmentation to align source marketing and offer optimisation Pricing optimisation Flight related e. g. line maintenance, catering, Non-fuel creditcard additional Aircrew support e. g. rental car, hotels services Real estate e. g. hangars, advertising TM New passenger services e. g. ELITE Class, Real estate asset blackcar, hotels utilisation Drive passenger aircraft operator pilot loyalty andstickiness M&A Network growth Signature Select and EPIC franchise extensions Signatures new sports charter terminal at Signature Miami MIA New airport location opportunities will support home and visiting professional and collegiate sports teams travelling on chartered flights to and from the city.
