BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 49 Viability Statement Long term prospects In their assessment of the impact of plausible scenarios on the Group, In accordance with provision c. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance the directors have also considered the likely effectiveness of available Code, the directors have assessed the financial and operational mitigating actions such as the deferral of non-essential capital position and prospects of the BBA Aviation Group.
This assessment expenditure across the forecast period.
was based on the three-year financial forecast for the BBA Aviation In particular, in making their statement the directors have given Group which was prepared on a business by business basis alongside consideration to scenarios including the following assumptions: the BBA Aviation Group annual budget and strategic planning market contraction in 2019 across the B&GA, commercial and processes.
military markets: The Groups current position provides a strong foundation for future core portfolio decline across Ontic and ERO due to increased market growth as outlined in the Groups strategy on page 10.
Signature is competition and margin pressures: amarket leader with an unrivalled global network of FBOs secured unfavourable changes in tax legislation in both the USA and EMEA onlong leaseholds providing sustainable competitive advantage, whilst driving increased effective tax rates and cash tax liabilities: and Ontic delivers a scalable proposition with strong return on invested capital, a diversified product portfolio and sole source revenue from increased cost of debt as a result of unfavourable changes to the IPcontrolled rights.
global economic and political environments.
Viability assessment Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation The directors consider the three-year period to December 2021 that the Company and the BBA Aviation Group will be able to continue tobethe appropriate viability assessment period based on the in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall due for the three-year historicperformance of the Group and its key underlying markets.
Thedirectors have given consideration to the levels of uncertainty within the global economic and political environment and to the risks faced by the Group and believe a three-year period remains the optimal balance of long-term projections and acceptable forecasting accuracy.
In making their assessments the directors have considered the potential financial and operational impacts of severe yet plausible scenarios that could impact the three-year financial performance ofthe Group.
The plausible scenarios considered are broadly aligned tothe principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 4246, and incorporate both external factors such as a downturn in the B&GA market and internal factors such as the ineffectiveness of planned strategic initiatives.
Consideration has been given to Brexit, in particular in the context of supply chain risk in the discontinued ERObusiness, and the relative significance of this compared totheGroups US operations.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: Mark Johnstone, David Crook, Group Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 4 March 2019 4 March 2019
