4 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Q&A with Mark Johnstone We have a privileged position as market leader at both Signature and Ontic.
We have invested to grow and improve our Signature network and customer offer thisyear and will continue to do so as we move forward.
We are also committed to growing Ontic through a programme of licence acquisitions and selective smaller M&A deals.
We will focus on building on our technology leadership in the FBOspace, both inour day to day customer interactions, but also focusing onnon-fuel growth opportunities with our customers.
Mark Johnstone Group CEO BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 5 Q.
How would you describe your first months asCEO?
It has been an enjoyable but busy period.
I have spent time engaging with our employees, customers and other key stakeholders, including afull schedule with our shareholders, potential new investors and debt investors as we successfully completed an oversubscribed inaugural bond offering to refinance part of our acquisition debt, and held two Capital Markets days in November.
We have done exactly what we said we would do.
InSignature, we were pleased to acquire EPIC, our joint fuel card partner, which brings a franchise network of over 200 branded locations and afurther 120 unbranded locations and QTPod self-fuel technology.
We were also pleased to welcome the St Thomas Jet Center, one of the busiest airfields in the Eastern Caribbean, to our network and Gary International Airport, Chicago became a Signature Select location.
We have appointed three very experienced leaders Signatures new Nashville BNA FBO facility I obviously know the Signature business well, having offers customers a true taste ofthe Music inthe Signature business.
Tony Lefebvre, Chief been CFO between 2009 and 2012 and overseeing City.
Signature completed and opened the Operating Officer, has more than 25 years new FBO and hangar this year, securing network growth from 95 to 115 FBOs.
Since then, and alease extension at BNA.
experience in the aviation industry, including following the transformative acquisition of Landmark, running our ASIG business pre-sale.
Tony brings Signature has strengthened its position as market afresh perspective on safety, customer service leader and has continued to transform and andthe operational efficiency side of Signature.
I am impressed by Shawn Hall joined us from McKinsey two years the quality of our people, whether itbe our customer agoafter a career as a Navy pilot and has taken service representatives, our technicians, our general thenew position of Chief Commercial Officer.
managers or our ramp operators at our FBOs, and Hehas 20 years experience in the aviation and theexpertise and proprietary knowledge at our Ontic hospitality industries.
Shawn Fallon, who has been sites.
The Signature team has certainly risen to the with BBA Aviation for nearly ten years, has rejoined challenge of amore testing US B&GA market in 2018, Signature as Chief Financial Officer, having been and theOntic team has been busy integrating the with the ERObusiness for a number of years.
GEacquisition into our Cheltenham facility and Thesenew appointments will support our focus preparing for the Firstmark integration.
oncreating additional value from our already We see huge potential to improve customer service invested real estate.
andefficiency at Signature through our ongoing At Ontic we have continued investing to grow investment in Signet 2.0 which provides, for example, ourportfolio of licence IP, investing $27.5 million upgraded electronic point of sale systems.
We are intheyear, and also completed the acquisition of inthe process of rolling out testing the technology I am impressed by Firstmark, a US East Coast based business with its atthe front end of our service offering with personal the quality of our own IP and portfolio of licences.
Ontics attractive digital assistants PDAs to assist us.
We will focus people, whether itbe returns are now visible following the reclassification onbuilding on our technology leadership in the FBO our customer service of the ERO business as discontinued.
space, both in our day to day customer interactions, representatives, Q.
What are your first impressions?
but also focusing on non-fuel growth opportunities ourtechnicians, our A. I spent the first few months reacquainting myself with our customers.
general managers or with the Signature business, gaining a deeper understanding of the Ontic business, and visiting our ramp operators our Ontic sites in California and the UK.
By engaging at our FBOs, and with our various internal and external stakeholders, theexpertise I have also gained honest impressions of areas andproprietary requiring improvement, the things were good knowledge at our atand things less so.
6 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Q.
What are your priorities as you look forward?
We are also committed to growing the Ontic A.
We have a privileged position as market leader business and have an EBITDA target of $100 million atboth Signature and Ontic, but we will not allow by the end of 2021.
This will be achieved through ourselves to become complacent.
We will continue acombination of licence acquisitions, which have to ensure that BBA Aviation is a safe place to work averaged c$30 million per annum over the last and that weremain committed to operating tenyears, and M&A deals, where we will look to responsibly.
This is valued by our employees and by acquirebusinesses with their own IP or portfolio potential employees and we want to make sure that oflicensed IP.
we attract and retain the best talent.
How is the integration of EPIC progressing?
our first full company engagement survey since A.
We were delighted to welcome the EPIC team at 2014 in the last quarter of 2018 and, whilst there are the beginning of the second half.
There is limited many positives, as with all companies, it has helped overlap of locations between the FBO portfolios, us identify areas of opportunity to drive customer with Signature and EPIC being co-located on just service through improved employee engagement.
The two models the Signature owned Attaching the harness to the B777 We will continue to invest in our Signature real model and the EPIC non-owned asset-lite integrated refuelling panel.
Ontic estate, whether it be through increasing hangar franchise model will operate independently.
Clearly, assembles the complex panel using acombination of externally sourced space or through upgrading our FBOs, noting that the addition of EPICs c. 250 million gallons of fuel andOntic manufactured parts.
this year we have opened a new facility at Nashville toSignatures c. 275 million gallons will enhance and invested in a new sports terminal at our Miami ourfuel buying power.
And, as we explored at the FBO: and we have a number of other significant Capital Markets days, we are looking to increase projects in train.
penetration of theEPIC fuel card into our Signature network and hence reduce the card transaction We will also be investing further in technology, fees we pay externally.
There is an interesting ourpeople and culture, and in inorganic growth technology angle to the business too, with QTPod opportunities, whether it be through Ontic licence self-fuelling technology currently installed at c1,600 acquisitions orM&A at Signature and Ontic, as locations for those pilots that choose to self-fuel.
We laid out some of the opportunities at our recent Capital Markets Days.
No single initiative fully moves the dial, but a combination of many smaller, focused investments, combined with pricing optimisation, Line Service personnel at Signature will return above market performance through our Scottsdale SDL greet an arriving Dassault already invested real estate.
Passengers and crew will be transferred to the Signature terminal while the aircraft is prepared for its next flight.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 7 Q.
How would you describe current US B&GA market conditions?
After a first half that grew 2.1%, the summer was quiet, and the market didnt experience the usual up-tick in flying activity at the end of the summer 1.
We are not expecting any significant positions in end markets changein US B&GA market conditions inthe first few months of 2019, however, we still consider the with long-term structural market to be one capable of delivering structural growth drivers growth.
The FAA is currently forecasting an average growth in B&GA jet flying hours of 2.7% per annum to 2038.
Significant barriers to Q. Youve recently increased the level of market outperformance you believe you can deliver entry underpin sustainable atSignature to 250 basis points.
How will competitive advantage youachieve this?
Historically, Signature has delivered an average ofaround 200 basis points of revenue growth 3.
Low fixed cost base with abovethe market, as defined by US B&GA FAA movements growth.
As clear market leader in the flexible cash investment US it becomes increasingly difficult to outperform requirements the market, however, we have some significant newinitiatives being rolled out such as fuel pricing optimisation and, perhaps more critically in terms 4.
M ultiple organic and ofrevenue growth, the introduction of new non-fuel services which will improve our asset yield.
A good inorganic growth TM example of this is Signature ELITE Class which opportunities across offers commercial aviation travellers an efficient Ontic Cheltenhams computer-controlled transfer to their flight through our FBO facilities Signature and Ontic parts storage system supports a smooth also involving security and customs clearance.
production process by enabling the fast-kitting of jobs.
Why did you buy Firstmark rather than investing in individual licences?
We see opportunities to grow both Signature and with strong free cash flow Ontic through M&A.
While Ontic licence acquisitions are, in effect, a trailing annuity by their very nature generation We will continue ofbeing on mature maturing platforms, by acquiring toensure that BBA the Firstmark business we have acquired a business Q.
What is your strategy for capital allocation Aviation is a safe place with a management team and a portfolio of licences andthe balance sheet?
Not surprisingly, multiples paid for to work and that we A.
Our cash generation characteristics are strong, the acquisition of a business are higher than those remain committed to andwe have a clear capital allocation policy which paid for individual licences.
will keep us within our stated net debt to underlying Q.
Why do you believe you are not the right owner This is valued by our EBITDA range of 2.53.0x.
In 2018 we spent more for the Engine Repair and Overhaul business?
employees and by than the guided $100150 million on acquisitions, A.
Within the BBA Aviation portfolio we have two potential employees but our M&A pipeline will not always deliver strong businesses competing for capital and and we want to make uniformly within a calendar year.
If we project theseare able to produce returns of at least our sure that we attract thatwe will fall below the bottom of the range, required ROIC hurdle rate of 12%.
While business and retain the best either through disposal proceeds or a reduction performance at ERO has turned around and it has inthe pipeline of opportunities to deploy cash talent.
ahighly attractive asset in its new, cost efficient, atSignature and Ontic, then we will return cash multi-engine overhaul and test facility in Dallas, toshareholders to ensure that we remain in range.
webelieve the business would flourish better The range gives flexibility and headroom for the undernew ownership.
investment requirements of the Group, both organic and inorganic.
