BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 93 Additional disclosures Group results and dividends At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force The results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are shown in the forthe benefit of all the current directors of the Company and other Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 104. members of senior management.
The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation dividend for 2018 of 10.07 per share on 24 May 2019 to shareholders Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as on the register at the close of business on 12 April 2019, which defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its together with the interim dividend paid on 2 November 2018 makes directors, under which each director is indemnified against liabilities atotal of 14.07 net per ordinary share for the year 2017: 13.40. incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they have course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such previously elected to receive their dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders provisions remain in force as at the date of this report.
who wish to receive dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate Employee information election to the Companys registrars no later than 5.30 pm on 30 April The Company provides employees with various opportunities to 2019.
A new election is not required if shareholders have previously obtain information on matters of concern to them and to improve made a valid election to receive dividends in US dollars.
Further theirawareness of the financial and economic factors that affect the information concerning the dividend currency election can be performance of the Company.
These include All Hands Briefings, foundonthe Companys website at www.
staffforums, and meetings with trade unions that take place Acquisitions and disposals throughout the year.
Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described in notes 25 and26 All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all times and to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
this includes not permitting discrimination against any employee or Events after the balance sheet date applicant for employment on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, There are no disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
gender, disability, national origin, age, military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair Board of directors consideration to suitable applications for employment from disabled The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear persons and making appropriate accommodations so that if existing on pages 52 and 53.
On 1 April 2018 Wayne Edmunds stepped down employees become disabled they can continue to be employed, from his role as Interim Group Chief Executive and Mark Johnstone wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, was appointed as Group Chief Executive.
Peter Ratcliffe stepped making every effort to find suitable alternative employment and downfrom the Board after the AGM on 11 May 2018.
Vicky Jarman toprovide relevant training.
andStephen King were appointed to the Board as non-executive directors on 7 January 2019.
All other directors held office throughout Agreements the financial year under review.
Susan Kilsby will retire from the Board Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company following theAGM on 10 May 2019. disclosesthat in the event of a change of control in the Company: i theCompanys commitments under the $1,650 million Acquisition Directors interests in shares Financing Agreement dated 23 September 2015 and as amended and Directors interests in shares and share options are contained restated on 16 November 2015, its $650 million revolving credit facility intheDirectors Remuneration Report.
dated 26 March 2018, its $300 million private note placement dated Directors indemnities 18May 2011 as amended, its $200 million private note placement The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each dated 17 December 2014 as amended and its $500 million 5.375% ofits directors, under which the Company agrees to indemnify each senior notes due 2026 could become repayable: ii the Engine Lease director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts Agreement dated 29 June 2009 as amended under which $31 million oromissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of aircraft engines have been leased to the Engine Repair & Overhaul of their office.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity ERO business could be terminated: iii the consent of Netjets would deed polls in substantially similar terms in favour of members of the be required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with Executive Management Committee and other members of senior Signature Flight Support: iv the operating licence with London management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors, they LutonAirport Operations may be terminable: and v certain licence are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section agreements within the ERO and Ontic businesses are terminable 234 of the Companies Act.
orrequire the consent of the counterparty but none of these contractsin their own right are significant to the Group.
94 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Future developments Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following material interests The Strategic Report discusses future developments of the Groups inthe voting rights of the Company under the provisions of the businesses.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Suppliers payment policy As at 31 12 18 As at 4 3 19 The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure William H Gates III 15.82% 15.82% thatsuppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 8.28% 7.72% bythe terms of the payment.
APG Asset Management NV 7.01% 7.01% Share capital Blackrock, Inc 5.00% 5.00% Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Charitable and political donations That note also contains a summary of the rights attaching to each Group donations to charities worldwide were $853,008 2017: $877,024.
class of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Awards granted under the Companys share Auditor plans are satisfied either by shares held in the employee benefit trust As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the or by the issue of new shares when awards vest.
The Remuneration directors, at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: Committee monitors the number of awards made under the various share plans and their potential impact on the relevant dilution limits a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information recommended by the Investment Association.
There is a 5% limit in of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and respect of discretionary plans and a 10% limit inrespect of all plans.
b t he director has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken Based on the Companys issued share capital asat 31 December 2018 as a director to make herself himself aware of any relevant audit the Company has used 1.9% towards the 5%limit and 2.2% towards information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware the 10% limit.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted itsexisting ordinary share capital at the 2018 AGM.
That authority inaccordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. willexpire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2019 unless renewed.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will be willbe proposed at the AGM.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will expire The greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed on page 36. atthe conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution Financial Risk Management to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Financial Risk Management is discussed on pages 42 to 44.
Inaddition, it will be proposed to give the directors further authority toallot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 4 March 2019 ofordinary shareholders.
This is in line with guidance issued by the andsigned on its behalf by: Investment Association.
If the directors were to use such further David Blizzard, authority in the year following the 2019 AGM, all directors wishing Company Secretary toremain in office would stand for re-election at the 2020 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included within the Notice of AGM.
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 10 May 2019.
The Notice of AGM sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred toearlier, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
