52 Directors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Board of Directors Chairman and non-executive directors Sir Nigel Rudd 72 NR Amee Chande 45 ANR Wayne Edmunds 63 Peter Ventress 58 ANR Vicky Jarman 46 ANR Mark Johnstone 50 Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board in December 2013.
Sir Nigel Rudd Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Amee brings not independent within the code definition Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Peter is Vicky Jarman was appointed to the Board on 7 January Mark became Group CEO of BBA Aviation on 1 April 2018. became Chairman in May 2014.
Sir Nigel is also Chairman significant digital and consumer experience to the Board Appointed to the Board in August 2013 and became Chairman of Galliford Try plc and a non-executive 2019.
She is also a non-executive director at Knight He joined BBA Aviation in 2008 as Group Corporate of Meggitt PLC and Sappi Limited.
In February 2011, he from her executive role as Chief Commercial Officer for Interim Group Chief Executive on 1 July 2017.
Other director of Softcat plc.
He was formerly a non-executive Frank, the global commercial and residential real estate Development Director before becoming CFO, Signature was appointed Chairman of the Business Growth Fund.
Waymo Googles Autonomous Vehicle company and current appointments include being Chairman of director of Premier Farnell plc and Staples Solutions advisor.
Vicky started her career with KPMG and qualified Flight Support in 2009.
In September 2012, Mark took Sir Nigel has a wealth of experience at the top of UK previous senior positions at Alibaba, Tesco and Walmart.
Dialight PLC and MSCI, Inc.
He has extensive commercial N. V. From 2009 he spent six years as Chief Executive as a Chartered Accountant.
Shortly after qualification over as Managing Director of APPH, managing the industry, including previous chairmanships of Invensys Amee began her career at McKinsey and Company experience, particularly in the US markets.
He was a Officer of Berendsen plc.
Prior to this he held several she moved to Lazard &Co, working in the Corporate turnaround of the business ahead of its successful sale plc, Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon plc, Heathrow Airport in Canada after completing her MBA at Harvard, and non-executive director of Ashtead Group plc from senior executive roles, including International President Finance team before becoming Chief Operating Officer in February 2014.
In March 2014, Mark became Managing Holdings Limited and Pilkington plc: and as founder of has since lived and worked in North America, Asia and 2014 2018.
He was Chief Executive of Invensys plc at Staples Inc. and Chief Executive Officer at Corporate for the London and Middle East operations until 2009.
Director EMEA, Flight Support with responsibility for Williams plc he oversaw its demerger in 2000, creating Europe.
Amee is an active volunteer with the World untilJanuary 2014 and Chief Financial Officer prior Express NV, a Dutch quoted company, prior to its Vicky has previously held non-executive appointments Signature Flight Support and ASIGs operations in the Chubb plc and Kidde plc.
Sir Nigel is Deputy Lieutenant Association of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts.
to that, having joined the business in 2008 as CFO of acquisition by Staples Inc. Peter has held a number of at fide La Rue, Equiniti Group and Hays.
In 2016, Mark was appointed President ofDerbyshire and a Freeman of the City of London.
He joined Invensys plc from other senior management positions across different and COO of Global Engine Services.
Prior to joining Reuters America, Inc. having held other senior business businesses in a variety of industries and has lived and BBA Aviation, Mark held roles in the aerospace and and financial roles in the technology sector, including worked in France, Canada and the Netherlands.
off-highway division of GKN plc.
Mark is a Chartered 17years at Lucent Technologies, Inc.
Accountant and holds an Honours degree from Bristol University UK.
Susan Kilsby 60 ANR Emma Gilthorpe 48 ANR Peter Edwards 63 ANR Stephen King 58 ANR David Crook 50 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board in April 2012 and became Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Emma brings Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Peter has spent Stephen King was appointed to the Board on 7 January Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May extensive aviation experience from her various roles at his career primarily in the aerospace sector across a wide 2019.
He is a non-executive director at Chemring Group 1 June 2017 having joined BBA Aviation in April 2015 as 2013 and Senior Independent Director in 2015.
Susan Heathrow Airport Holdings formerly BAA, where she is spectrum of roles.
He began his career with AirResearch plc, Bristow Group Inc and at TT Electronics plc, where he Group Financial Controller.
Davids previous roles include brings to the Board her global investment banking currently Executive Director for Expansion.
She started Aviation, followed by nine years at Gulfstream in a variety is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Head of Group Finance at AZ Electronic Materials, as well experience, having begun her career at The First Boston her career at Cable & Wireless where she worked in of senior sales and marketing roles.
In 1995, he joined Audit Committee.
Stephen started his career at Coopers as general management and finance roles within Sun Corporation and later worked at Bankers Trust and BZW, commercial, regulatory and policy roles before becoming Bombardier Aerospace Corporation, where in 2001 he & Lybrand and is a Chartered Accountant.
He has Chemical, Telewest Global, Vantico Group and Corus before the latter was acquired by Credit Suisse.
She was Group Director, Regulatory Affairs in 2004.
In 2005 she was promoted to President of Business Aircraft.
Peter significant experience within the industrial, engineering Group.
David is a qualified accountant and holds an chairman of the EMEA Mergers and Acquisitions Group joined the launch Management Board of Openreach was Chief Executive Officer of Jet Aviation, a global and manufacturing sectors, including a number of MBAfrom Warwick Business School.
at Credit Suisse until 2009 and she was also a nonand moved to BT as Group Director for Industry Policy business aircraft service provider, between 2007 and executive and non-executive roles.
Until 30 November executive director of LOccitane, Keurig Green Mountain, and Regulation in 2007.
Since leaving Jet Aviation, Peter has been active 2018 he was Group Finance Director at Caledonia Coca-Cola HBC AG, Goldman Sachs International and Holdings in 2009 as Regulatory Director and became with his aviation advisory practice, along with various Investments plc, the FTSE 250 investment company.
Chairman of Shire plc prior to its acquisition by Takeda Executive Director, Strategy in 2013, before taking her roles in European based ventures in the commercial He has previously been a Non-Executive Director and Pharmaceutical Company in January 2019.
He is a director of Chairman of the Audit Committee at The Weir Group appointments include being a non-executive director Dunn-Edwards Corporation, a Los Angeles based plc.
Stephen was Finance Director at fide La Rue plc from of Diageo plc and Fortune Home Brands & Security Inc. manufacturer and retailer of architectural and industrial 2003 to 2009, and prior to that at Midlands Electricity plc.
Her experience of advising clients across a range of paint products.
industries includes aviation and aerospace sectors.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Directors Report 53 Key to Committee members Audit and Risk Committee A Nomination Committee N Remuneration Committee R Executive directors Sir Nigel Rudd 72 NR Amee Chande 45 ANR Wayne Edmunds 63 Peter Ventress 58 ANR Vicky Jarman 46 ANR Mark Johnstone 50 Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board in December 2013.
