48 Strategic Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably affect its future development, performance and position are set out possible changes in trading performance show that the Group inthe Strategic Report and Directors Report on pages 195.
The shouldbe able to operate within the level of its current facilities for financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are theforeseeable future.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting described on pages 3841.
In addition, note 17 to the Consolidated theforecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and tothenumber of hours of flying activity, principally in Business & processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management General Aviation, but also to a lesser extent in commercial and military objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the drivers of revenue, namely fuel and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
volumes in Signature, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for components in Ontic.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties The Groups committed bank facilities comprise a $650 million are provided on pages 4246. multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF dated 26 March 2018 due to expire in March 2023 and an Acquisition Financing Agreement AFA The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2019 put in place during 2015 to fund the acquisition of Landmark Aviation in budget and medium-term plans with due regard for the risks and conjunction with the rights issue.
Following the prepayment of Facility uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the impact that B in April 2018, from the proceeds of the issuance of $500 million thesecould have on trading performance, including the matters senior unsecured notes due 2026, there remains one acquisition term setout in viability assessment opposite.
The key assumptions used debt facility.
The remaining term debt facility is Facility C due to expire inconstructing the budget were as follows: in September 2020.
In addition to prepaying Facility B, during the year In Signature we anticipate growth in Signature and EPIC, driven by the Group used the proceeds from the $500 million senior notes market outperformance and effective strategic initiatives against issuance to fund the repayment of $120 million US private placement the backdrop of a flat B&GA market with modest medium-term notes, which expired in May 2018, and drawings under the $650 million market growth.
There have been no prepayments under Facility C of the AFA and, Ontics outlook remains positive with a strong order backlog therefore, as at 31 December 2018 the full amount of $450 million andtherecent Firstmark acquisition providing a solid foundation remains outstanding.
forcontinued growth in the business.
In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement USPP ERO is forecast to continue to deliver robust performance and obligations of $380 million senior notes with various maturity dates improved cash conversion in a competitive market and pricing between 2021 and 2026. environment.
The business is held for sale.
In total, the Group has debt obligations and facilities of $1,980 million In addition, our overall performance will be supported by further and, as at 31 December 2018, the Group has available $528 million incremental contributions from the substantial investments ofundrawn committed borrowing facilities.
These debt obligations madeacross the Group in recent years.
Over the longer term, andfacilities are subject to cross default.
Further details relating to theunderlying strengths of our market-leading businesses, the these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated continuing improvement in their operational performance and the Financial Statements.
The bank facilities and the USPP notes are structural growth and consolidation in our major markets support subject to two main financial covenants: maximum net debt to the Boards confidence in the Groups ability to generate superior underlying EBITDA of 3.5x: and minimum net interest cover of 3.0x through-cycle returns.
The directors expect the Group to comply with The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company these covenants for the foreseeable future.
andthe Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt thegoing concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financialstatements.
