com Board of directors Governance www.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 81 An effective board of directors made up of diverse and experienced members Governance framework Our committees and Board of directors committee chairmen Audit and risk committee The audit and risk committee is chaired The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors in by Angela Crawford-Ingle.
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, and Nomination committee the companys process for monitoring compliance with laws The nomination committee is chaired and regulations and the Code of Conduct.
It also ensures by David Roberts.
that an effective risk management process exists in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an Remuneration committee effective framework and process for managing its risks.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Andrew Likierman.
The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration arrangements support the strategic aims of the business Executive committee and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior The executive committee is chaired executives while complying with the requirements of regulatory by Andrew Horton and acts under and governance bodies, satisfying the expectations of delegated authority from the board.
shareholders and remaining consistent with the expectations of the wider employee population.
The nomination committee is focused on evaluating the board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, considering and recommending board and committee candidates and considering board succession.
Find out more pages 91 to 100 82 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Board of directors continued N E E E David Roberts Andrew Horton Martin Bride Adrian Cox Chairman Chief executive officer Group finance director Chief underwriting officer Appointed: 1 November 2017 Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 5 May 2009 Appointed: 6 December 2010 Experience: David joined Beazley Experience: Andrew joined Experience: Martin joined Beazley Experience: Adrian began his on 1 November 2017 and became Beazley in June 2003 as finance in April 2009 as finance director.
career at Gen Re in 1993 writing chairman on 22 March 2018.
He is director and became chief He began his career in insurance short tail facultative reinsurance chairman of Nationwide Building executive officer in September in 1985 and took up his first role before moving to the treaty Society and vice chairman of NHS 2008.
Prior to that he held as a finance director in 1996.
He department in 1997, where he England.
He has over 30 years various financial positions within trained as a general insurance wrote both short and long tail experience in financial services ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank actuary, and his experience business specialising in financial and was previously chairman and and was the chief financial officer spans personal and commercial lines.
He joined specialty lines CEO of Bawag PSK AG, Austrias for the UK wholesale banking lines general insurance, the at Beazley in 2001 where he second largest retail bank, division of ING immediately prior London market, life insurance has performed a variety of roles, and an executive director and to joining Beazley.
He qualified and asset management in both including underwriting manager, member of the group executive as a chartered accountant with the UK and France.
Martin has building the long tail treaty committee at Barclays plc, Coopers and Lybrand in 1987.
34 years experience in insurance account, managing the private where he was responsible for He joined the board of Man and his career includes a number enterprise teams, and the large the international retail and Group plc in 2013 as a nonof senior level finance and risk teams before taking commercial banking business.
general management roles in the responsibility for specialty lines Prior to joining Nationwide he Committee: Executive committee sector.
He took on the role was group deputy chairman chairman directorships at Socit Foncire of chief underwriting officer at Lloyds Banking Group.
Skills: strategy, investment, Lyonnaise and Union Financire in January 2019.
Adrian was His previous non-executive finance, mergers and fide France Banque.
Martin has appointed to the boards of directorships include Absa acquisitions, leadership and been group finance director at Beazley Furlonge Ltd in 2008 Group SA and BAA plc.
Beazley for 10 years joining from and Beazley plc in 2011.
Committee: Nomination Zurich Financial Services where Committee: Executive committee committee chairman he was Chief Financial Officer Skills: insurance, management, Skills: governance, strategy, for the UK Life Business.
Prior to international business board leadership and regulation.
that, he spent 17 years at Aviva development and governance.
Committee: Executive committee N N Skills: finance, insurance, mergers and acquisitions and leadership.
George Blunden Angela Crawford-Ingle Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Experience: George is the senior Experience: Angela is a chartered independent director.
He retired accountant with extensive audit as senior vice president and experience of multinational and director from AllianceBernstein listed companies.
He had partner in  previously been chief executive specialising in financial services of Union plc, and a director for 20 years during which time she of SG Warburg Securities, led the insurance and investment Seccombe, Marshall and management division and retired Campion plc and Meridian in 2008.
She is currently a partner Investment Performance in Ambre Partners, a firm providing Services.
He is the chairman strategic, financial and operational of the Charity Bank Ltd and advice.
Angela is also currently a chairman of Stonewater Ltd. non-executive director and audit Committees: Audit and risk chair of Swinton Group Ltd and committee, remuneration River and Mercantile Group plc.
committee, nomination Committee: Audit and risk committee committee chairman Skills: investments, treasury, Skills: finance, governance, credit, capital and governance.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 83 N N N E Executive directors N Non-executive directors Where the appointment date of a director pre-dates 13 April 2016 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company of the Beazley group this appointment Christine LaSala Sir Andrew Likierman Catherine Woods date refers to their representation Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director on the parent company of the Beazley group.
Appointed: 1 July 2016 Appointed: 25 March 2015 Appointed: 1 January 2016 Experience: Based in New York, Experience: Andrew is Professor Experience: Catherine has over Christine retired as chair of of Management Practice at the 30 years experience in financial Willis Towers Watson North London Business School having services as well as significant America.
She has 40 years of served as Dean 2009-2017.
Her management, client leadership career has spanned the public executive career was with and financial experience in the and private sectors as well as JP Morgan in the City of London, insurance industry including work academic life, including 10 years specialising in European financial as an underwriter and 27 years as head of the UK Government institutions.
She is a former as an insurance broker working Accountancy Service.
He has vice president and head of the with large corporate and public had many non-executive director JP Morgan European Banks institution clients.
Christines appointments, including at the equity research team.
She experience includes board and Bank of England, and is currently currently holds a number of leadership roles at Johnson & also a non-executive director non-executive directorships Higgins and Marsh and 10 years of Times Newspapers Ltd. including deputy chairman of as CEO of the WTC Captive.
Committees: Remuneration AIB Group plc and is a director Committee: Audit and risk committee chairman, of AIB Mortgage Bank EBS DAC, committee nomination committee Black Rock Asset Management Skills: insurance, strategy, risk Skills: accountancy, financial Ireland and EBS DAC.
She management, client leadership, services, parliamentary advice was previously appointed by regulatory and governance.
the Irish Government to the Electronic Communications Appeals Panel and the Adjudication Panel to oversee the rollout of the National Broadband N N scheme.
Catherine is a former Chairman of EBS DAC and former director of An Post.
Committees: Audit and risk committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee Skills: insurance, strategy, John Sauerland Robert Stuchbery stakeholder management, Non-executive director Non-executive director finance, governance, leadership Appointed: 5 May 2016 Appointed: 11 August 2016 and management.
Experience: John is chief financial Experience: Bob had previously officer of the Progressive been appointed as a nonCorporation, a US based executive director to the board of insurance holding company.
Prior Beazley Furlonge Ltd, the groups to his current role, he was Lloyds managing agency, where Progressives personal lines he chairs the risk committee.
group president for eight years, He brings extensive Lloyds responsible for the companys experience, having been chief primary business unit with $17bn executive officer of Chaucer until in revenues.
During his tenure as 2015, and a deep knowledge of personal lines group president, the Lloyds market and he led the introduction of many distribution and operational innovations such as Name Your strategies.
Price and Snapshot, the Committee: Audit and risk industry-leading pay-as-you-drive committee offering.
He also oversaw Skills: insurance, risk significant growth of management and strategy.
the companys direct marketing efforts and consumer-facing web and mobile technology.
Committee: Remuneration committee Skills: finance, pricing, marketing and distribution.
