com Our business model and strategy Beazleys vision is Our business model Our strategy tobecome, and be recognised as, the Reconfirmed annually through the Our strategy is directed towards business planning process, our the achievement of our vision, which is highest performing business model is as follows: to become, and be recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
To this end, our strategy comprises: specialist insurer.
We have a targeted product set, largely in commercial lines of Prudent capital allocation to achieve Thecompanys business, and underwrite each a well diversified portfolio that is risk on its own merits: resistant to shocks in any individual business model, line of business: We employ highly skilled, experienced and specialist The creation of an environment strategy, and approach underwriters and claims in which talented individuals with managers: entrepreneurial spirit can build to risk management successful businesses: We tend to write capped liabilities: The ability to scale our operations aregeared to the We operate through specific to ensure that client and broker insurance hubs rather than service keeps pace and, wherever seeking a local presence in every achievement of this possible, improves as the company country in which we do business: grows: and and vision, as well Consistent investment in product We primarily transact business innovations to provide better astocreating value through brokers and work with products and services to improve selected managing general our clients risk transfer.
agencies and managing general forourstakeholders underwriters to improve distribution in specialist niches.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 09 Our current strategic Risks How we measure initiatives value creation Beazley Digital Given the nature of Beazleys For shareholders Focus on smaller less complex risks business, the key risks that impact We measure our value creation for by doing business in a way which financial performance arise from shareholders through earnings per maximises the value we get from insurance activities and fall into share, the growth of net assets per technology and provides seamless the following categories: share, and total shareholder returns and efficient solutions to brokers in dollars as this is the currency Market cycle risk: and clients.
of the majority of our transactions.
The risk of systematic mispricing Underpinning our strong results of the medium tailed specialty Faster, Smarter Underwriting against all of these metrics has lines business which could arise Focus on larger more complex been our consistently strong due to a change in the US tort risks using new technology and data underwriting performance, reflected environment, changes to the analytics to improve the efficiency in our combined ratio.
Our combined supply and demand of capital, and the quality of our complex risk ratio in 2018, a year of high natural and companies using incomplete underwriting and claims settlement.
In the five data to make decisions: years prior to 2018 it averaged 90%.
Closer to the Client Natural catastrophe risk: By better understanding our clients For staff The risk of one large event caused needs, we will be able to enhance our Beazley employs talented people by nature affecting a number product design and improve our clients and we invest accordingly in of policies and therefore giving experience.
Also we look to improve the expanding their skills and helping rise to multiple losses.
Given client experience and strengthen our them build rewarding careers.
Beazleys risk profile, this could brand as a client-focused insurer by We measure the impact of these be a hurricane, major windstorm enhancing our client attraction, investments on the perceptions or earthquake: retention and cross-selling.
of our people in two main ways: Non-natural catastrophe risk: by monitoring staff retention levels London Market This risk is similar to natural and through a detailed employee Explore ways of promoting London as a catastrophe risk except that engagement survey, which we great place to write specialist insurance multiple losses arise from one conduct every two years.
On both while improving the efficiency of the event caused by mankind.
Given counts, the evidence is strongly London market Lloyds and company Beazleys risk profile, examples positive.
Our staff retention levels market.
Also ensure the market include a coordinated cyber are very high and the most recent continues to obtain the most value for attack, an act of terrorism, an employee engagement survey, our clients, brokers and shareholders.
act of war or a political event: conducted in 2017, positioned Beazley Enhance ways that the London market in the top quartile of the 6,000 Reserve risk: can generate access to business and companies surveyed by Aon Hewitt.
The risk that the reserves put capital more efficiently.
aside for claims to be settled For customers in the future turn out to be Nearly all business at Beazley comes insufficient: and through brokers.
We monitor broker and client perceptions of our service Market asset risk: particularly our claims service in The risk that the value of a variety of ways, including through a investments could be adversely detailed annual broker survey.
This is impacted by movements in the third year Beazley have conducted interest rates, exchange rates, a global survey, and the number default rates or external market of brokers participating continues forces.
to increase, reflecting strong engagement.
Over 5,000 brokers provided feedback on our underwriting and claims service.
Our high Net Promoter Scores in both areas Our approach to managing reflect their continued willingness to these and other risks recommend Beazley to their clients.
is described in detail on pages 53 to 58
