com Specialty lines Specialty lines, Beazleys largest division, was an engine of premium growth for the company in 2018, with premiums rising 14% to $1,469.0m 2017: $1,292.2m.
Our combined ratio was up to 91% 2017: 89% following reserve releases that were slightly below those of 2017.
Overall we saw rates rise by 1% Adrian Cox 2017: flat.
Head of specialty lines For more than three decades, the US has been the largest and most attractive market for Beazleys specialty lines products, ranging from architects and Portfolio mix engineers professional liability A&E in the early years and still today to Technology, media and business services 28% healthcare and environmental liability Management liability 19% insurance more recently.
The US Small business 17% continued to account for the bulk of our Professions 15% premium in 2018 and we saw top line Healthcare 12% growth of 20% in our locally underwritten Treaty 4% US business.
However our efforts to grow International financial lines 3% internationally outside the US are also Crime 1% gathering pace, especially in Europe, Market facilities 1% as demand for our products intensifies.
We expect that the rapid development of our non-US business will, over time, Gross premiums written $m change the geographic mix of our 1,600 portfolio, although our focus on the US 1,400 market will certainly not diminish in the 1,469.0 1,200 1,292.2 process.
600 400 200 Specialty lines accounted for 56% 0 of Beazleys total premium in 2018, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 covering a very wide array of types of cover and clients ranging in size from the worlds largest engineering firms, health systems and technology companies Gross premiums written Result from operating activities to thousands of small businesses requiring specialist liability policies.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 37 We concluded that it would be beneficial Innovation is equally important to the Maintaining the right mix of large risk, to split this diverse portfolio into two team that will continue to trade under the mid-market and small business will new divisions from 2019 onwards.
These include our continue to be central to our thinking division, which continues to be called professions group, led by Jerry Sullivan, at Beazley.
In 2018, we continued to specialty lines, is now led by James with teams focusing on the professional observe an active claims environment Eaton, who was previously responsible liability needs of lawyers and architects for some of our larger risk business, for our small business portfolio.
The other, and engineers, as well as our fast growing including D&O risks, and large professional called cyber & executive risk CyEx, is environmental liability team.
liability business, including hospitals now led by Mike Donovan, who previously and health systems.
However, in contrast ran our technology, media and business Another major growth area within to previous years, we have seen prices services team.
specialty lines is in the healthcare space, beginning to firm in these areas.
where we have been expanding our The rationale for this grouping is that offerings to life sciences companies.
In the cyber market, rates have been we saw great value in bringing our This segment currently comprises medical softening, but we continue to see management liability and cyber business device manufacturers, contract research profitable growth opportunities.
The together under one roof.
Many of organisations involved in clinical trials, strongest growth we saw last year was our brokers already group cyber and blood and tissue banks, and a range outside the US, where the impact of the management liability business together of service providers to the life services European Unions General Data Protection and discuss them in the same breath sector.
It is a field in which companies Regulation and similar regulations in with clients.
Both directors and officers collaborate closely, generating complex other regions is now beginning to bite.
Adaptability and willingness The business interruption risk presented liability line, and cyber liability risks rank to innovate need to be second nature: by cyber attacks also continues to worry as boardroom issues in the eyes of many around two thirds of the risks underwritten our clients and is no longer exclusively of our clients.
by Marc Amis and his life sciences team the concern of the larger businesses are tailored to meet the unique needs of we insure.
The strength of Beazleys cyber business the individual clients involved.
We saw premiums from accordingly able to offer clients bundled From the beginning of 2019, I assumed this line grow by 9% in 2018 and there is cover for multiple exposures, which is the role of chief underwriting officer at further scope to grow significantly, given invaluable when a single claim can span Beazley.
It was very gratifying that we did that more than half the new business we multiple forms of insurance.
not need to look outside the company to saw in 2018 was from first time buyers.
fill the key underwriting and leadership However we see excellent growth Finally, specialty lines will also continue roles within our two new divisions.
opportunities within our management to include our small business teams.
liability portfolio as well, particularly for Automating the operations of these products such as Beazley Safeguard, teams as much as possible is the focus which combines risk management advice, of our Beazley Digital strategic initiative, crisis response and liability coverage for which should increase the productivity of organisations entrusted with the care our underwriters significantly.
Like most of children or vulnerable adults.
Lloyds businesses, Beazley began life as a large risk insurer but in recent years we Our ambition within the CyEx division have been writing an ever growing volume will be to position Beazley as the leading of small business risks.
These clients, provider of quality management liability and the brokers who serve them, coverage for both traditional and appreciate the quality of our specialist emerging exposures a reputation our cover and the claims service that supports cyber team already enjoys.
Our London them, but we do see opportunities to market business will continue to serve as simplify these products and make the a crucible for innovation in many of these placement process more efficient.
lines: our London underwriters have deep expertise in a number of areas that are not well addressed by many domestic markets, such as wage & hour coverage in the US, protecting companies against claims made under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
In July 2018 our management liability launched in London a Lloyds consortium to offer increased capacity for wage & hour risks.
