com Sustaining growth Strong organic growth has been nurtured by steady investments in Beazleys people and technology In 2018, Beazleys teams across the US celebrated a landmark achievement passing the goal of underwriting a billion dollars of US business.
From modest beginnings in 2005, when Beazleys underwriters in Farmington, Connecticut brought in $15.4m in premium, the US business has grown to encompass 13 offices, 589 people, and during 2018 $1,051.2m 1 in gross premiums written.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 11 Obtaining growth Growth for insurance companies rarely proceeds in a straight line and, when it does, it does not usually bode well for investors.
Market conditions, particularly for catastrophe exposed risks, can swing wildly and a disciplined insurer will adjust its exposures accordingly.
In 2010 and 2011, Beazleys premiums overall declined by 2% as intense competition in many lines of business and the global recession following the 2008 financial crisis took their toll.
However in 2012, the business bounced back with double digit premium growth and record profits.
Since 2012, Beazleys top line has grown by an average of 6% annually.
Most of this growth has been organic, which Beazley generally favours over growth by acquisition.
One exception was the business derived through the Downtown Toronto: Beazley now has acquisition of Creechurch Underwriters a strong platform for growth in Canada in February 2017, a managing agency in Canada that Beazley had supported since its establishment in 1996.
Our acquisition of Creechurch has With any investments in technology This acquisition has afforded Beazley been very successful, says Beazleys come investments in people, to a strong platform for growth in the CEO Andrew Horton.
But in the main help them optimise the value of the Canadian market that would have been we focus on organic growth because it technology and build satisfying long difficult and time-consuming to build is more sustainable and poses less of term careers at the company.
We have been fortunate at Beazley in being able to The US has proved the main engine attract some talented individuals from of Beazleys growth in recent years other companies that have become but since 2017 Beazley has quite internally focused due to large increased its investments elsewhere scale mergers and complex corporate in the world, notably in continental reorganisations.
We see strongly growing demand in Europe for many of the Although organic growth means the lines of business in which we company does not have to invest in the specialise, says new chief purchase of businesses, it does require underwriting officer Adrian Cox.
Beazley has been That includes cyber of course, investing in technology to enhance the but also specialist liability products productivity of underwriters and improve for healthcare providers, technology the service provided to clients and companies and financial brokers.
1 Beazleys underwriters also write on behalf of syndicate 623, a syndicate managed by Beazley but backed by third party capital.
As such, $114.5m of locally underwritten US premium does not remain within the Beazley plc group.
com Sustaining growth continued Investment in people In the past two years, Beazley has added 99 underwriters to develop business around the world outside the US, against 43 actually within the US.
There is no expectation that the pace of growth in the US will slacken, but the overall geographic mix of the portfolio is likely to diversify further as Beazley grows into other markets.
Beazleys new hires in Europe and elsewhere are often multiline Gearing up for activity based working: underwriters able to write a range artistsimpression of Twentytwo Bishopsgate, of specialty risks.
Their ability to do this which represents a departure Beazleys London headquarters from 2020 from Beazleys historic single line underwriter model is supported by The principle underlying ABW is In spring 2019 Beazleys office in technology that marshals underwriting flexibility, says Munira Hirji, Beazleys Toronto will move to new premises data more efficiently and shortens head of commercial management, equipped for ABW.
The 190 person response time for brokers submissions.
who is responsible for the companys New York office will follow suit later Particularly for small risks, speed of 24 offices worldwide.
Flexibility to work in 2019 and in 2020 the companys response is often the main determinant in the way you need to and with the tools London office will move to Twentytwo of winning business.
So we looked closely at the Bishopsgate, a new development in design of this office to create places that the City of London, also providing Technology that enhances the speed reflected the different activities we do for ABW.
and agility of Beazleys workforce also each day: for example quiet areas for underpins another major innovation calls or focused work, creative areas for designed to sustain future growth.
collaboration, and social areas for eating In February 2018 Beazley opened its and catching up.
first office in Birmingham, England equipped to provide its 40 occupants with an activity based working ABW environment.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 13 Amongst others, Beazleys Birmingham office houses members of the companys global IT team who have been focusing on robotics technology that promises significant efficiency gains over time.
The goal of the Beazley Digital strategic initiative launched in 2018 is to introduce no touch processing for most small business transacted by Beazley, and robotics will be key to this transformation.
Beazleys office in Birmingham Digital transformation has become The company continues to hire such almost a clich in the insurance industry, individuals, but is now also beginning says Beazleys chief operating officer Ian to train up underwriters in their first We are seeking to Fantozzi.
At Beazley our focus has been or second role.
on delivering steady improvements in the offer our early career service we can provide to our clients and We are seeking to offer our early joiners a broad exposure brokers without adding proportionately career intake a broad exposure to to our headcount.
the workings of the company, says to the workings of the Pippa Vowles, Beazleys head of talent company.
We have also been looking to harness management.
They need to be well new sources of data, including social versed in the ways in which technology Pippa Vowles media feeds, that can help us price risks and new forms of data are reshaping Head of talent management more swiftly.
The ultimate effect of all this our business, as well as in the will be to transform our business, but its traditional but still critical technical not a big bang.
In the course of this transformation, the skills required of Beazleys underwriters and within the company as a whole will change.
Beazley has historically relied upon hiring experienced underwriters who have brought all the capabilities needed to the job, together with strong pre-existing broker relationships.
