Strategy Bellways strategy is to build shareholder value through sustainable and disciplined volume Volume growth growth, utilising the Groups operational and balance sheet Overview capacity, combined with a strong Delivering disciplined growth through our national divisional structure, selecting the right land and managing the focus on RoCE.
growth in the Groups NAV which, How we performed in 2017 18 when combined with a progressive We continued to focus our land buying in areas of strong customer demand and in sustainable locations.
dividend policy, results in value We secured DPP on sufficient land during the year to meet our creation for shareholders.
We have invested in sufficient land in all tiers of our land bank to support our volume growth aspirations.
To achieve our overall strategy we Our plans for 2018 19 have identified the following seven We will maintain our current disciplined growth strategy, whilst key strategic priorities.
being mindful of market conditions.
We will task newer divisions with delivering ambitious long-term growth plans.
We will seek to purchase land where possible with the benefit The metrics we use to measure of an existing DPP consent or subject to such consent being granted prior to acquisition.
ourperformance are onpages We will focus land buying on sites which suit smaller or lower 14to 19. average selling price homes.
We plan to open further divisions during the year.
Driving down costs Strengthening the brand Driving down costs Overview Overview By making sure that our customers receive an excellent experience Providing an appropriate product range on housing and apartment when purchasing a new home, both prior to and following moving developments, at prices that are affordable for our customers and in, we will help to make a Bellway home the home of choice.
which are built efficiently and to a high quality.
How we performed in 2017 18 How we performed in 2017 18 We retained our HBF 5 star home builder status one of only Our new house type range The Artisan Collection has been two national mainstream housebuilders to do so.
introduced across the Group for use on newly acquired sites.
We introduced a Customer Experience Committee to identify We have developed new, more comprehensive assessment and deliver best practice across the Group.
processes for Group suppliers to drive increased standardisation of our construction specification.
We have continuously refreshed our training for all customerfacing employees and are pleased to report that our We run a continuous programme developing and sharing independent customer satisfaction score is 86.0%.
good practice across the business.
Our plans for 2018 19 Our plans for 2018 19 We will seek to retain our HBF 5 star home builder status.
We will seek to make further design improvements to The Artisan Collection and secure cost savings through standardisation and We will maintain the momentum of the Customer Experience procurement efficiencies and improved build times.
Committee and introduce more formal divisional representation.
We will deliver further cost savings and improve security We will roll out our new customer website.
We will roll out our new Bellway London brand.
We will increase the use of technology to improve benchmarking We will seek to improve our customer satisfaction score.
We will review and trial the use of innovative new products.
Bellway p. l. c. 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Appointing the right people Value creation through capital and dividend growth Overview Overview Providing our people with a rewarding and fulfilling career, enabling Reinvestment of earnings into financially attractive land them to achieve their full potential and deliver high levels of opportunities, whilst maintaining a focus on RoCE, has led performance, contributing to the success of the business.
to a substantial increase in value for shareholders through a combination of the ongoing growth in NAV and increasing dividend payments.
How we performed in 2017 18 We have increased the number of training days per employee.
How we performed in 2017 18 We have introduced a Trainee Assistant Site Manager We continued to invest capital into land and work in progress apprenticeship programme.
in areas with high demand, without compromising our hurdle We have increased the number of graduates and apprentices rates in relation to RoCE and margin, to ensure that the Group is we recruit and train by 54% and have joined The 5% Club.
well placed to deliver further growth.
We have made further improvements to our employee benefits.
Our plans for 2018 19 Our plans for 2018 19 We will introduce a Site Manager Training Programme.
We will update and refine our divisional management We will continue to invest capital into land and work in progress progression and retention plan.
in a controlled manner in areas of high demand to ensure that the Group is well placed to deliver further growth.
This will be We will introduce exit interviews to improve our understanding of done without compromising our hurdle rates.
We expect to maintain our dividend cover of around three We will introduce total reward statements to assist in times earnings.
We will improve the focus of diversity across the Group, including targeted recruitment campaigns.
Maintaining a flexible Focus on return capital structure on capital employed Overview Overview Ensuring that our assets are used in the most efficient way to deliver We use a combination of cash, bank facilities and equity to shareholder returns.
provide us with access to finance in a balanced and flexible way.
This enables us to deliver our growth strategy while managing the cash flow requirements of the business, including delivering dividends to our shareholders.
How we performed in 2017 18 How we performed in 2017 18 We maintained a focus on balance sheet management, with We maintained sufficient bank facilities to support the cash flow particular emphasis on large capital-intensive sites.
We maintained RoCE as a key assessment when buying land.
We actively managed our gearing levels.
Our Ashberry brand was used to increase output on larger sites.
We generated cash through the sale of new build homes.
Our plans for 2018 19 Our plans for 2018 19 We will maintain a focus on balance sheet management, with We will increase our banking facilities to 500 million.
particular emphasis on large capital-intensive sites.
We will maintain our current bi-lateral banking arrangements.
We will maintain RoCE as a key assessment when buying land.
We will maintain our current investor relations activities.
We will increase the Groups completions from our Ashberry brand.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
