Our Marketplace In many parts of the country there remains a shortage of good quality andaffordably priced new housing.
The affordability of new housing issupported by the availability of Help to Buy for those customers withatleast a 5% deposit and by an environment of low interest rates, whichremain close to a historically low level, and generational lowunemployment.
The availability of mortgages Mortgage availability is an important component in a successful housing market.
Following the introduction ofthegovernments Help to Buy scheme in April 2013 for new build homes, the availability of 75% loan to value mortgage finance has increased significantly, thereby assisting in an increase in the sale of new homes, particularlyfor first-time buyers or purchasers in London where affordability is most constrained.
The government announcement that the equity loan element of the Help to Buy scheme in England will be supported up to 2021 provides certainty for the new build housing market and will greatly assist purchasers of new homes and first-time buyers, in particular.
It also allows the industry to invest for the medium-term.
Help to Buy now accounts for 24% of all private homes The primary market factors that can affect the Groups sold in the new build sector, and 39% of all homes we sell.
performance against its strategy are as follows: Undoubtedly, this has helped boost new build output, which represents an increasing proportion of the overall market.
The affordability of mortgages Due to the confidence in the current market place aided Mortgage affordability is a crucial ingredient for a successful bythe continued success of Help to Buy, lenders are offering and sustainable housing market.
Access to affordable a wider range of more competitive products to buyers.
finance assists potential purchasers in securing a new home.
This increased willingness of lenders to provide funding Competition in the mortgage market and low interest rates together with the introduction of the Mortgage Market ensure new homes remain affordable.
Average mortgage Review has resulted in a more sustainable mortgage market.
repayments, as a percentage of income, have gradually fallen from a peak in 2007, following the down-turn in the housing market in 2008 09.
The chart below demonstrates the affordability of houses in the UK: 10 100% 9 90% 8 80% 7 70% 6 60% 5 50% 4 40% 3 30% 2 20% 1 10% 0 0% 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 House price to earnings Mortgage repayments to earnings Source: Contains public sector information licensed under the open Government Licence 3.0.
Bellway p. l. c. 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 House price: Earnings Mortgage repayments as a percentage of earnings Strategic Report Demand Availability of labour and materials The projected household formation rate in England is Labour and material availability remain the greatest 1 running at 233,000 per annum.
constraint to growth in the sector, with pressures tending to be specific to certain trades, locations and supplies of The supply of new build completions is currently around items such as structural timber, plastics, bricks and blocks.
1 1 184,000 per annum in England, rising to 217,000 per annum These pressures are a result of the growth in housebuilding when taking into account conversions of existing buildings over the last five years, an industry-wide lack of investment into residential dwellings.
Accordingly, there is a demand in training over the long-term and the cyclical nature of supply imbalance.
As a result, good forward planning disciplines, longer lead-in times and extended build periods over recent Supply years all need to be considered when planning construction and sales programmes.
There has been some ongoing, but Land supply and planning permissions manageable, upward pressure on material costs, arising due The land market continues to provide good buying to the weaker exchange rate, and whilst labour availability opportunities.
House prices are strong, supporting land in general remains an issue for the industry, the shortage values and hence vendors appetite to sell.
does not appear to have been exacerbated as a result of the decision to leave the EU.
The availability of land is supported by a positive planning 1 environment.
This is evidenced in the chart below, which Summary of market backdrop shows a record number of planning permissions granted inthe UK over recent years: The market backdrop supporting Bellways ongoing and 450 disciplined growth strategy remains favourable.
415 400 There is demand for further growth across the sector, however, this is most pronounced in certain geographic 350 areas and overall, the demand supply imbalance creates 323 amarketplace for our product.
300 288 267 Mortgage rates are currently competitively priced.
241 250 217 202 The cost of servicing a mortgage is affordable and remains 200 low by historical standards.
150 The availability of land is generally good, supported by 100 apositive planning environment.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unemployment is at a generational low and buying a new Source: HBF home is affordable for many.
The availability of land at attractive margins Government initiatives, such as the continued availability Acquiring land in areas of high demand and in attractive of Help to Buy and stamp duty land tax relief for the locations, in accordance with the Groups financial and majority of first-time buyers, are helping customers to meet non-financial acquisition criteria, is one of the key factors deposit requirements.
There is cross-party support to deliver an increased supply The market for land in the UK, particularly in the main of new homes.
In the context of these market conditions, demand for the The planning system Bellway product remains resilient, with customer confidence seemingly unaffected by the ongoing uncertainty The Groups ability to deliver new homes is dependent surrounding the forthcoming exit from the EU.
on the efficiency of the planning system, to provide the necessary planning consents in a timely and effective The Groups strategic priorities take into consideration manner, to meet the requirements of the Groups thissynopsis of the market backdrop.
The National Planning Policy Framework system NPPF introduced in March 2012, working in parallel with the Localism Act 2011, has had a positive effect on the planning environment.
This is evidenced by an increase in the number of planning permissions.
Further changes are expected as a result of the revised NPPF, published in July 2018, and the governments housing white paper, which includes favourable proposals such as brownfield first, a standard method for calculating housing need and arequirement to publish ambitious local plans.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Thousands
