Directors Report The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2018 of 95.0p per share.
Simon Scougall Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The directors of Bellway p. l. c. present their report in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006.
Bellway p. l. c. is the holding company of the Bellway Group of companies and is a UK publicly listed company whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The main trading company is Bellway Homes Limited and this and all other subsidiaries and joint arrangements of the Group are listed in note 25 to the accounts.
The following table sets out where information can be found which is required to be reported on in the Directors Report, but has been included elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts and is simply cross-referenced here to avoid repetition.
Topic Page number Directors 42 43 Appointment and replacement of directors 48 and in the Articles Directors interests 73 Future developments 31 of the Strategic Report Group undertakings 112 Environmental issues 34 41 of the Strategic Report Greenhouse gas emissions 37 of the Strategic Report Whistleblowing 57 Financial risk management 27 of the Strategic Report Going concern 27 of the Strategic Report Results and dividends The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 519.9 million 2017 454.1 million.
The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2018 of 95.0p per share 2017 84.5p.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved by shareholders before the end of the financial year.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Wednesday 9 January 2019 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday 30 November 2018.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 84.5p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2017, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2018 of 48.0p per share.
Directors indemnities and Directors and Officers liability insurance The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors, officers and senior employees.
The Articles provide the directors and officers with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of this report.
Bellway p. l. c. 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Major interests in shares As at 31 July 2018 and as at the date of this report, the Company had been notified under DTR 5 of the following interests, amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 July 2018 As at 15 October 2018 Number of % total Number of % total shares with voting shares with voting voting rights rights voting rights rights Standard Life Aberdeen plc 9,482,382 7.71 9,482,382 7.71 BlackRock, Inc. 6,143,561 5.00 6,143,561 5.00 Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 6,139,034 4.99 6,139,034 4.99 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd 3,890,282 3.17 3,890,282 3.17 Polaris Capital Management, LLC 3,729,913 3.03 3,729,913 3.03 Post balance sheet events There were no post balance sheet events.
Information on those third parties with which the Company has contracts or arrangements essential to itsbusiness The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the financing of the business.
There are no other arrangements that the Group considers to be critical to the performance of the business.
Takeovers Directive and change of control The Company is party to a number of banking agreements that may be terminable in the event of a change of control of the Company.
On a change of control any outstanding options and awards granted under the Groups share schemes would become exercisable, subject to any performance conditions being met.
Share capital The Companys total issued share capital, as at 31 July 2018, consisted of 122,980,266 ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company can be found in note 17 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares in the Company are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In compliance with the Companys Share Dealing Code, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and those persons closely associated with them to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Articles.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Amendments to the Articles The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company as are, not by law or by the Articles, required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and at which a quorum is present.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Directors Report continued Allotment of shares During the year, 182,308 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes.
The directors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority, including the resolutions which seek to renew this authority, are set out in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM, to be held on Wednesday 12 December 2018.
Purchase of the Companys own shares The Company was given authority at the AGM on 13 December 2017 to purchase its own ordinary shares.
As at the date of this report, no market purchases have been made by the Company.
This authority will expire at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the renewal of this authority including the resolution which seeks to renew this authority for a further year are set out in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
Listing Rules There are no disclosures required by LR9.8.
4 that apply to the Company.
Accountability and audit The Going Concern Statement, Long-Term Viability Statement and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are shown on pages 27, 27 and 81 respectively.
The Audit Committee, whose role is detailed on pages 52 to 57, has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
People The important role that our people perform is described throughout the Strategic Report.
The following disclosures provide additional information on how we treat our people and how we engage with them.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
It is our policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to all of our employees, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time, full-time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are supported and encouraged to develop to their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation.
Training at each division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors and senior management team.
A newsletter is issued to all of our employees on a regular basis and each division maintains good employee relations using a variety of means appropriate to its own particular needs, with guidance when necessary from Head Office.
All new employees, when eligible, are automatically entered into the Groups pension arrangements.
In addition, we operate a savings related share option scheme and have discretionary bonus arrangements in place.
We also provide life assurance cover to all of our employees, offer a private medical scheme depending on seniority and offer childcare vouchers.
Health and safety at work We promote all aspects of health and safety throughout our operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors, suppliers, customers and visitors to our sites and premises.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting and are addressed in the Strategic Report and on our website at www.
The Board receives external advice and training from specialist advisers on both the directors and the Companys regulatory obligations.
Auditor In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM special business Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Wednesday 12 December 2018.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
Bellway p. l. c. 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Disclosure of all relevant information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant and reliable.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern.
use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Simon Scougall Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 15 October 2018 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81
