Why Bellway We pride ourselves on understanding the aspirations of all our customers, not just in the type of home that suits their needs, but in the environment in which they want to live.
10,307 All our customers are treated with the same high level homes sold in 2017 18 of customer service.
Our high standard of service and build quality is endorsed by our customers, with 9 out of 10 customers saying they would recommend to a friend buying a new home from Bellway.
Our Customer Experience Committee drives improvements to quality and works to 5 star home develop and share best practice to further enhance our service to customers.
For more information see pages 18 and 22. builder rating from the Home Builders Federation Customer Satisfaction Survey Building homes Bellway p. l. c. 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 About Us Our people are the key to our success and we aim to provide them with a rewarding and fulfilling career.
54% Bellway has long had a reputation as a good employer, taking a personal interest in its workforce and supporting increase in apprentices career development.
As a result, many employees have and graduates spent a large proportion of their working lives with us.
However, we are not complacent and strive to continue to be an employer of choice.
5 star home For more information see pages 19 and 22.
12% increase in training days per employee builder rating from the Home Builders Federation Customer Satisfaction Survey Building careers Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Why Bellway continued As one of the UKs largest housebuilders, we have an important role to play in addressing the growing national housing shortage by building high quality new homes in 270m desirable locations.
ongoing annual spend in We work with a range of stakeholders to build trust that the local economy from new we can fulfil this role whilst at the same time operating Bellway households our business in a socially responsible, ethical and sustainable way.
For more information see pages 22 to 23.
86.0% customer satisfaction score Building trust Bellway p. l. c. 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 About Us We are consistently building value for shareholders.
We continue to focus on our growth strategy to help us build 2,957.7m on our success in 2018 19 and beyond.
Providing market conditions continue to remain attractive, the Group has the group revenue operational and financial strength to further expand the divisional network, thereby supporting additional growth in the years ahead and delivering further sustainable long-term returns for shareholders.
For more information see pages 20 to 22.
652.9m operating profit Building value Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
