Strategic Report Short-term cash surpluses are placed on deposit at Financial risk management competitive rates with high quality counterparties.
Other than The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, bank loans those disclosed, there are no financial instruments or and overdrafts and various items such as trade receivables derivative contracts.
The Board therefore considers the and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
Groups liquidity risk to be mitigated.
The main objective of the Groups policy towards financial In relation to land payables, certain payables are secured on instruments is to maximise returns on the Groups cash the respective land asset held see note 15.
No other security balances, manage the Groups working capital requirements is held against any other financial assets of the Group.
and finance the Groups ongoing operations.
Interest rate risk Capital management Interest rate risk reflects the Groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
The risk arises because the Groups overdraft The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base to and floating rate bank loans bear interest based on LIBOR.
underpin the future development of the business in order to deliver value to shareholders.
The Group finances its The Groups attitude to interest rate risk and forecast debt is operations through reinvested profits, bank borrowings, cash influenced by the existing and forecast conditions prevailing in hand and the management of working capital.
at the time that each new interest-bearing instrument is entered into.
This will determine, amongst other things, the The Board expects to maintain a dividend cover of around term and whether a fixed or floating interest rate is obtained.
During the year ended 31 July 2018, it is estimated that Management of financial risk an increase of 1% in interest rates applying to the full year would have decreased the Groups profit before taxation by The main risks associated with the Groups financial 1.914 million 2017 1.708 million.
instruments held during the year have been identified as credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and housing market Housing market risk risk.
The Board is responsible for managing these risks and The Group is affected by movements in UK house prices.
the policies adopted, which have remained unchanged These in turn are affected by factors such as credit during the year and are set out below.
availability, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and supply of land with planning.
Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is largely mitigated as the While it is not possible for the Group to fully mitigate housing vast majority of the Groups sales are made on completion market risk on a national macroeconomic basis, the Group of a legal contract, at which point monies are received in does continually monitor its geographical spread within exchange for transfer of legal title.
the UK, seeking to balance investment in areas offering the best immediate returns with a long-term spread of its There is no specific concentration of credit risk in respect operations throughout the UK to minimise the effect of local of home sales as the exposure is spread over a number microeconomic fluctuations.
In respect of trade receivables, the amounts presented in the balance sheet are stated after adjusting Going Concern Statement for any doubtful receivables, based on the judgement ofthe Groups management through using both previous After conducting a full review, the directors have a experience and knowledge of the current position see reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate note 13. resources to fund its operations for at least the next 12 months.
For this reason, they continue to adopt No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as or subsequently and the Group does not anticipate any discussed further on page 81. losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
The Board considers the Groups exposure to credit risk Long-Term Viability Statement to be acceptable and normal for an entity of its size, in the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate industry in which it operates.
Governance Code, the directors have assessed the Liquidity risk viability of the Group over a period of three years which is longer than that required by the going concern The Group finances its operations through a mixture of assumption.
This assessment is based on the Groups equity comprising share capital, reserves and reinvested current position and the potential effect of its principal profit and debt comprising bank overdraft facilities and risks facing the Group, which are summarised on pages 24 borrowings.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by to 27. monitoring existing facilities and cash flows against forecast requirements based on a three-year rolling cash forecast.
The output of this review considered the profitability, cash flows and funding requirements of the Group over a The Groups Treasury Policy has, as its principal objective, period of three years, which is generally the same period the maintenance of flexible bank facilities in order to meet used for internal forecasts.
The review entailed sensitising anticipated borrowing requirements.
The Groups banking the expected number of legal completions, average arrangements outlined in note 16 to the accounts are selling prices, overheads and land expenditure, assuming considered to be adequate in terms of flexibility and liquidity a severe downside scenario.
The assessment included for its medium-term cash flow needs.
Relationships with an assumption that existing banking facilities remained in banks and overall cash management are co-ordinated place, but were not renewed at the end of their tenures.
The Group is operating well within its financial Based on the results of this review, the directors have a covenants and available bank facilities.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three-year period.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
