Business Model The following timeline demonstrates how we create value from purchasingland to selling homes.
Selecting the Managing the Constructing right land planning process the right product What we do What we do What we do Land opportunities are identified Our land bank is comprised of We construct a wide range of by our divisional land and planning three tiers: homes to suit a variety of budgets teams and the Head Office and lifestyles.
Our homes are built i owned or unconditionally strategic land team using their to specific building, technical and contracted land with DPP.
health and safety regulations and A viability assessment and appraisal other regulatory requirements as ii pipeline plots of land owned or is prepared by the division, which well as to our own quality standards.
controlled by the Group pending is assessed in detail at regional and DPP, with development expected We take very seriously the health then Group level, where the final to commence within the next and safety of our employees, decision is taken to purchase the site.
sub-contractors and visitors to Board approval may also be required anyof our locations.
iii strategic long-term land either depending upon the value and owned or under option which nature of the proposed acquisition.
We strive to maintain long-term has the benefit of a positive working relationships with reputable The number of large, long-term sites planning status and is generally sub-contractors to reduce health we own is strictly controlled to avoid held under option.
and safety risks and to ensure the having too much capital tied up or availability and quality of materials Our divisional and Head Office concentrated in one location.
planning teams work closely with We often secure land without the local authorities and communities We seek to ensure that we have benefit of an implementable detailed to obtain DPP to construct suitable building materials available planning permission DPP, typically homes which reflect planning at competitive prices to enable us brownfield sites with an outline and vernacular requirements.
to construct homes to the high planning consent or on a subject to The divisional and Head Office standards expected of us by our planning basis.
We use the expertise planning teams progress a customers, within budget and of our land and planning teams to combination of medium-term on time.
obtain a DPP which thereby adds pipeline land and land from our value and enables higher returns.
strategic land bank through the We closely monitor work in progress planning system.
to ensure that build rates are We aim to increase the number consistent with sales rates.
of homes sold through continued investment in appropriate land and in our divisional teams.
Bellway p. l. c. 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Investing in Delivering an our people excellent customer experience How we create value Reinvest profit.
Payments to sub-contractors, suppliers and consultants.
Payments to national and local government.
What we do What we do Dividends to shareholders.
We aspire to sell homes that are Our people are key to the success desirable and affordable for our of our business and we aim to customers.
The satisfaction of provide them with a rewarding Throughout this report refers our customers is of the utmost andfulfilling career.
to where we have described our importance and ultimately this will approach to the environment, We aim to continue hiring top determine the success or otherwise employees, social matters, human quality people to complement our of our business.
rights and anti-bribery and corruption existing workforce.
in accordance with the new NonWe aim to deliver an excellent Financial Reporting Regulations set We provide structured training experience to our customers, both out in sections 414CA and 414CB of the programmes for apprentices before and after occupation of Companies Act 2006.
Relevant policies and trainees and relevant their homes, building upon our are available on our website, together training for other employees.
reputation as a quality national with our Economic and Social We are also developing a housebuilder.
Each division has Impact report.
a dedicated customer care team, which is supported by a Group Head of Customer Care and our Customer Environment Experience Committee.
Society Construction and economy Over the next few pages we explain our business model inmore detail, including how this is aligned with our three corporate responsibility pillars.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Business Model continued Selecting the right land What we rely on How we measure our performance Where sites require planning consent it may take many Acquiring high quality sustainable sites in areas of strong months to progress a parcel of land through the planning customer demand that meet or exceed both our financial consent process before we can start building and selling and non-financial acquisition criteria is key to the success homes.
We therefore require our land teams to purchase of the business.
Failure to have an adequate supply of land sufficient sites to ensure that we have the necessary would put our ability to achieve our volume growth targets amount of land to meet our short-term volume growth under pressure.
We therefore link part of the executive targets as well as a pipeline of land for subsequent years.
directors bonuses to the delivery of a sufficient land bank to meet our growth aspirations.
RoCE is a key indicator of how Alignment with our corporate we are delivering our strategy of building shareholder value, which is reliant on land acquisition and the subsequent responsibility pillars performance of our developments.
Gross margin enables us By building quality homes on predominantly to monitor the robustness of our land purchasing process brownfield land we are contributing to the and the level of profit on land purchases.
RoCE and gross regeneration of areas in mainly urban locations.
margin remain strong but reduced slightly and our land bank remains appropriate.
By paying section 106 and Community Infrastructure REM Levy CIL contributions we provide local authorities Sufficient land bank of plots with DPP with revenue for community investment.
Local authorities benefit from additional revenue 2018 Achieved under the New Homes Bonus.
2017 Achieved For more information see pages 34 to 41.
The risk we mitigate Gross margin % The inability to source suitable land that meets our 2018 25.5 financial and non-financial acquisition criteria, including 25.5% minimum gross margin and RoCE hurdle rates.
There has 2017 25.9 -40bps been no change to this risk during the year.
For more information see page 24.
Bellway p. l. c. 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Managing the planning process What we rely on How we measure our performance Our planning teams build collaborative relationships with These KPIs enable us to monitor the number of plots in each local councils, residents and interest groups so that our tier of our land bank to ensure they remain sufficient to help completed developments benefit the communities in us deliver our strategy of volume growth.
which they are built and reflect local needs.
We also rely At the end of the year we had an appropriate number of on government support to make improvements to the plots in each land bank tier.
planning process such as the continuation of the NPPF.
1 Number of plots owned and controlled with DPP plots Alignment with our corporate responsibility pillars 2018 26,877 26,877 plots We consult with local residents as part of the planning 2017 25,655 4.8% process to help us build the homes our customers desire locally.
We make contributions to local communities through section 106 and CIL payments and through the 1 Number of plots acquired with DPP plots provision of the New Homes Bonus.
2018 4,845 4,845 plots For more information see pages 34 to 41.
2017 5,327 -9.0% The risk we mitigate Delays and increasing complexity in the planning process.
This risk has reduced slightly during the year due to our Number of plots converted from medium-term continued development of skills in this area.
1 pipeline plots For more information see page 24.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Business Model continued Constructing the rightproduct What we rely on How we measure our performance Experienced construction people, strong relationships The health and safety of our employees, sub-contractors with skilled sub-contractors and consultants, together and visitors on site is paramount.
We therefore include with Group purchasing arrangements with suppliers and the Groups health and safety performance as part manufacturers, are key to enabling us to deliver homes of the executive directors potential bonus payment.
built to the right standard, at the right time and at the Improvements in health and safety performance are right price.
indicated by a lower NHBC health and safety incident rate and by a reduction in the RIDDOR seven-day reportable Alignment with our corporate incident rate per 100,000 site operatives.
responsibility pillars The NHBC health and safety incident rate deteriorated but was still around two and a half times better than the industry The health and safety of everyone who works on and average.
All other KPIs either improved or remained visits any of our locations is paramount.
REM NHBC health and safety incident rate Reducing waste on site delivers cost savings for the business and reduces the amount of waste sent to landfill.
2018 0.867 0.867 2017 0.690 Building strong long-term relationships with 25.7% sub-contractors, consultants, and suppliers and manufacturers of materials generates benefits for us, those we do business with and the communities in which we operate.
Number of NHBC Pride in the Job Awards awards For more information see pages 34 to 41.
2018 49 49 awards 2017 49 No change The risks we mitigate Shortage of building materials at competitive prices.
Shortage of appropriately skilled construction people and Number of RIDDOR seven-day reportable incidents per sub-contractors.
100,000 site operatives accidents Significant health and safety risks inherent in the construction process.
2018 404.02 404.02 There has been no change to these risks during the year.
2017 426.36 accidents For more information see pages 24 to 25.
-5.2% Number of NHBC Health and Safety Awards awards 11 awards 2018 11 2017 10 10.0% Link to remuneration see pages 58 to 77.
Bellway p. l. c. 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Business Model continued Delivering an excellent customer experience What we rely on How we measure our performance Sales and customer care teams that are well trained, have We have chosen the following KPIs as they demonstrate the right attitude and have the resources available to them progress made in delivering our strategy of volume growth.
to deliver excellent service to our customers, both before We believe that customer satisfaction plays a very important and after occupation of their home.
part in achieving this volume growth and part of the bonus available to the executive directors is based upon Well trained Site Managers who are responsible for, and improvements made in customer service.
take genuine pride in, the quality of each finished home that we build.
All of these KPIs have improved or remained the same during the year.
Alignment with our corporate REM Customer satisfaction score % responsibility pillars We continue to improve energy efficiency by building 2018 86.0 86.0% homes which are, on average, more energy efficient 2017 85.2 80bps than is required by building regulations.
Customer handover folders contain information on sustainable travel, local recycling centres and energy Number of homes sold homes efficiency advice.
2017 9,644 homes 6.9% The risks we mitigate Reservation rate homes per week There are a number of risks, which if not appropriately mitigated, will negatively impact customer experience.
Our risk management processes, including the initiatives 2018 200 200 being delivered by our Customer Experience Committee, 2017 187 homes seek to reduce the impact of all risks, thus trying to maintain an excellent level of customer experience.
7.0% These risks are not regarded as principal risks and so have HBF home builder status star not been included in our principal risk table on pages 24 to 25.
These risks have not changed during the year.
Bellway p. l. c. 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Investing in our people What we rely on How we measure our performance Our skilled, professional and dedicated employees We use the following KPIs as indicators of how successful are provided with the right level of training, support wehave been during the year in managing and developing and resources.
Our dedicated Human Resources team, which focusses on All of these KPIs have improved during the year apart from the attraction, development and retention of talent across employee turnover and the percentage of employees who the business.
have worked for the Group for 10 years or more.
This is a reflection of the increase in the number of new employees Ensuring the human rights of our employees and of those joining the business during this period of sustained growth.
who work with us are protected.
We have policies and training in place to protect the Alignment with our corporate human rights of our employees and those who work for us.
These are overseen by our Human Resources department responsibility pillars to ensure these policies are adhered to, and any concerns are reported through our whistleblowing hotline.
There have Further improvements in training been no issues of concern raised during the year.
Employees who have worked for the Group for 10 years For more information see pages 34 to 41. ormore % The risk we mitigate 16.4% 2018 16.4 The inability to attract and retain appropriate people 2017 18.0 -160bps remains a significant risk to the business.
There has been no change to this risk during the year.
For more information see page 25.
Number of graduates and apprentices number 2018 142 142 2017 92 54% Training days per employee days 4.7 days 2018 4.7 2017 4.2 12% Employee turnover % 2018 21.4 21.4% 2017 21.2 20bps Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
