01 STRATEGIC REPORT 02 GOVERNANCE 03 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE BO ARD OF DIRE CT ORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GLYN BARKER ADRIAN LI ANDY MYERS DIANA BRIGHTMOREPETER VERNON R A CHEL DO WNEY BSc HONS FCA MA CANTAB, MBA, LPC BEng HONS ACA FRICS ACA ARMOUR FCCA, MCT DEPUTY CHAIRMAN AND INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment to the Board: to the Board: to the Board: to the Board: to the Board: to the Board: 3 January 2012 and as Deputy 1 May 2014 8 December 2017 2 September 2013 6 December 2013 6 September 2017 Chairman and Senior Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Independent Director on Nomination Committee Audit Committee None Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee 18 April 2018.
Skills and experience: Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Committee memberships: Diana is a Fellow of the Skills and experience: Rachel is Project Director of Adrian is Executive Director and Peter is Group Executive Director Remuneration Committee Chartered Certified Accountants Manchester Life, a joint venture Deputy Chief Executive of The Andy qualified as a Chartered at Grosvenor where he has Chairman and a Fellow of the Association between Abu Dhabi United Bank of East Asia, where he Accountant with KPMG in 1990 responsibility for overseeing the Audit Committee of Corporate Treasurers.
She is Group and Manchester City assists the Chief Executive with and has extensive finance and Groups operating companies in Nomination Committee currently the Chief Executive Council established in 2014 to the overall management of the commercial experience.
Until North America, Asia and Britain Officer, UK & Europe of The Skills and experience: make a significant contribution group.
He holds a Master of recently Andy was Chief and Ireland with an active Australia and New Zealand Glyn is a Chartered Accountant towards achieving Manchesters Management degree from the Financial Officer at McLaren programme of real estate Banking Group Ltd where she is and has extensive experience as regeneration and residential Kellogg School of Management Technology Group where he investment and development in responsible for oversight of the a business leader and trusted growth ambitions.
and an MA in Law from the had responsibility for Finance, 11 world cities and assets under day-to-day activities of the adviser to FTSE 100 companies.
Prior to that Rachel has managed branch, including the local He has a deep understanding During the period 2008 to 2016, various projects including the Adrian brings banking Prior to joining McLaren in 2004, execution of the Groups of accounting and regulatory Peter was Chief Executive of submission to the Government experience to the Board and Andy held senior finance roles strategy, promoting a culture issues along with extensive Grosvenor Britain and Ireland.
for 113 million to transform the provides valuable insight into at Rolls Royce plc and at the of compliance and ensuring understanding of transactional public-housing stock in several the Far East property and BMW Rover Group.
He joined Peter is also a trustee of appropriate standards of and financial services.
Rolls Royce Plc as Finance Peabody, the Housing conduct and governance.
Glyn was appointed as a Manchester and Salford as Director of the Combustion Association that owns and Other appointments: Diana was previously CEO, Non-executive Director part of the Housing Market Business Unit in 2000 and was manages more than 55,000 Executive Director and Deputy Corporate Banking at Lloyds of Berkeley following a Renewal Pathfinder.
promoted to CFO of the Energy homes across London and Chief Executive of The Bank Banking Group 2004-2012 and 35 year career with Sector, based in Washington DC South East, housing over Rachel, a Chartered Accountant, of East Asia, Ltd spent her early career at The  LLP two years later.
is also currently a Trustee of the Coca Cola Company.
Diana has Independent Non-executive PwC, where he held a number We Love Manchester Emergency Other appointments: Other appointments: 30 years international Director of two listed companies of senior posts including UK Vice Fund and the Lord Mayor None Group Executive Director, experience in banking, corporate under the Sino Group Sino Land Chairman, UK Managing Partner of Manchesters Charity Grosvenor finance, financial management, Company Ltd. and Tsim Sha and UK Head of Assurance.
Trustee of Peabody also established and ran PwCs Other appointments: Transactions Services business.
Independent Non-executive Other appointments: Project Director, Director, China State Construction Chief Executive Officer, UK & Other appointments: Manchester Life International Holdings Ltd Europe of The Australia and Senior Independent Trustee of We Love Manchester Independent Non-executive New Zealand Banking Group Ltd Non-executive Director, Aviva plc Emergency Fund Director, COSCO SHIPPING Member of the Board of the Independent Non-executive Ports Ltd Trustee of the Lord Mayor Association of Foreign Banks Director, Transocean Limited of Manchesters Charity Chairman, Irwin Mitchell Appeal Trust Holdings Limited Chairman, Interserve plc Senior Advisory Partner, Novalpina Capital COMPANY SECRETARY J S P CRANNEY FCIS 84 85 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE c orpor ate go vernance report Dear Shareholder The Board reviews the independence of invaluable insight into Far Eastern and Director are invited to attend these Non-executive Directors on an annual emerging markets and supply chains.
meetings in part, to provide an update on I am delighted to introduce the Corporate Governance Statement for the 2017 18 financial year.
The Company is committed to basis taking into account each individuals Adrian devotes significant time to Berkeley the business activities of the Group.
The maintaining a high standard of corporate governance and this section, including the Audit Committee Report, Directors Remuneration professional characteristics, behaviour outside Board meetings and the Board Non-executive Directors meet at least Report and the Nomination Committee Report, details how the Company has applied the main principles and provisions of the UK and their contribution to unbiased and strongly believes that he has sufficient annually without the Chairman present, Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code : independent debate.
capacity and commitment to Berkeley to chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
fulfil his obligations to the Company both Leadership Conscious of the changes proposed by Board papers and agendas are sent out in the normal course of business and at Effectiveness the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, the in the week prior to each meeting, thus a time of unforeseen corporate need.
As Board recognises that Sir John Armitt, allowing sufficient time for detailed review Accountability noted in his biography on page 84, two of having more than nine years service on and consideration of the documents Remuneration Adrians directorships are linked under the the Board, will no longer be considered beforehand.
In addition, the Board is Sino Group which is a common corporate Relations with shareholders independent.
While the Board is of the supplied with comprehensive management structure in South East Asia.
Adrian is The Companys business model is explained in the Strategic Report.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully compliant with the Code view that he continues to maintain and information on a regular basis.
based in Hong Kong and it should be throughout the 2017 18 financial year.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
contribute an independent view in all noted that his appointments in Hong Kong Election and re-election of Directors Board deliberations, to comply with comply with local guidelines and he is not The Board has carried out a number of key governance activities this year including: The Articles of Association of the Company best practice, Sir John stepped down as considered overboarded.
include the requirement for Directors to Senior Independent Director, as Deputy Board succession planning, including the appointment of four new Directors: submit themselves to shareholders for Chairman and from his committee The Executive Directors do not hold any Reviewing the roles undertaken by our Non-executive Directors including Board Committee membership: re-election every three years.
In addition, roles on 18 April 2018 as outlined in the Non-executive Director appointments or all Directors are subject to election by Reviewing the Companys approach to Diversity and Inclusion and the Boards Diversity Policy: Nomination Committee Report on page commitments required to be disclosed shareholders at the first opportunity Reviewing the continued progress of the Shareholder Returns programme: 93.
He was succeeded in the roles of under the Code.
after their appointment and thereafter at Senior Independent Director and Deputy Reviewing and approving the Companys Tax Policy: Chairman and Chief Executive intervals of no more than three years.
Sir Johns Reviewing the Companys risk appetite in the context of the prevailing operating environment: and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive unrivalled experience in construction In accordance with the requirements of are separately held and there are clear Reviewing the Companys approach to Cyber Security and GDPR.
and infrastructure and his independent the Code, all Directors offer themselves written guidelines to support the division of challenge continue to be of value to for re-election annually at the Annual Each of these areas are discussed in more detail within the annual report and I look forward to hearing your views at and in advance of responsibility between them.
General Meeting each year including at our 2018 AGM.
is responsible for the effective operation the Annual General Meeting to be held on The Non-executive Directors, led by the of the Board and shareholder general Looking forward to 2018 19, the Board will continue to monitor the Corporate Governance agenda in the UK, including any new 5September 2018.
Senior Independent Director Glyn Barker, meetings, for overseeing strategy and for provisions introduced in the 2018 Corporate Governance Code once published.
have the skills, experience, independence ensuring that each Director contributes Induction and development In closing, I would like to welcome Peter Vernon, Rachel Downey, Justin Tibaldi and Paul Vallone to the Board and thank all Board and knowledge of the Company to enable to effective decision-making.
The Chief On appointment, Non-executive Directors members for their service during the year.
I would also like to thank Sir John Armitt for his contribution as Senior Independent Director them to discharge their respective duties Executive has day-to-day executive are provided with a detailed induction and to welcome the appointment of Glyn Barker as the new Senior Independent Director.
Each Nonresponsibility for the running of the Groups programme.
This covers an overview of executive Director is prepared to question businesses.
His role is to develop and the Groups operations and its policies, and to challenge management.
All of the deliver the strategy to enable the Group corporate responsibility and corporate a W PIDGLey, cBe Non-executive Directors are considered to meet its objectives and to develop the affairs issues, legal matters, and the Executive Chairman to have been independent throughout management team.
opportunity to meet with Directors and the year.
key staff and to visit the Groups sites.
Tony Pidgley is Executive Chairman which All new Directors are provided with Last year some shareholders raised we believe is the best succession model for LeaD er SHIP Approval of the Groups interim and independent Non-executive Directors.
The training on Directors Duties and concerns regarding the number of Berkeley in order to ensure the continued annual results, dividend policy and biographies of these directors are set out The Board has collective responsibility for Corporate Governance provided by directorships held by Adrian Li and long-term success of the Company.
Having shareholder distributions: on pages 80 to 85. promoting the long-term success of the external legal counsel.
whether this may impact his ability to a strong Senior Independent Director and Reviewing the Groups risks and system Company in a safe and sustainable manner The Board has put in place the succession fulfil his duties as an Independent NonDeputy Chairman, first in Sir John Armitt Ongoing training is available to all of internal control: in order to create shareholder value.
The planning that all successful organisations executive Director of Berkeley, particularly and now in Glyn Barker, ensures that there Directors to meet their individual needs.
Board provides leadership and sets the Changes to the Board and other senior require and, as explained in the Nomination should there be an exceptional period is a balance of power at the top of the Board members also receive guidance Companys strategic long-term objectives.
executive roles: Committee Report on page 93, the of Board activity at one or more of the Company.
The transition to this model on regulatory matters and the corporate composition of the Board continues to Corporate Governance arrangements companies on which Adrian serves as a took place in 2009 and shareholders have Its duties are set out in a formal schedule governance framework that the Group be reviewed on a regular basis.
During and the Board evaluation: and Director.
This resulted in 33.5% of votes supported this structure ever since.
of matters specifically reserved for decision operates under.
For example, since the year 2017 18 the Board has appointed two new being cast against the re-election of Adrian by the Board, which include: end, Directors have received training on Approval of policies in key areas Meetings Executive Directors, Justin Tibaldi and at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Adrian Data Breaches in light of the new General including Sustainability, Health & Safety, The Board met formally four times during Overall management of the Group, its Paul Vallone, and two new Independent is an active and valuable member of the Data Protection Regulations.
Business Ethics, Equality, Modern Slavery the year to 30 April 2018 and there were strategy and long-term objectives: Non-executive Directors, Rachel Downey Board.
He attends all Board meetings and and Share Dealing.
There were also three Board and Peter Vernon.
Berkeley seeks to have Members of the Audit and Remuneration Approval of corporate plans: plays an active role in Board discussions.
As conference calls during the year.
a Board of diverse experience, contribution Committees receive briefings from explained in the Public Statement made in Approval of all material corporate eFFecTIveneSS and skills and each of these Directors, as our auditors and remuneration advisers November 2017, which can be found on our transactions: In addition to the above formal meetings set out in their biographies on pages 81 respectively to ensure they remain Composition and Independence website, Adrian has both legal and financial of the whole Board, the Non-executive Changes to the Groups capital structure: and 85, brings complementary talents and up to date with current regulations At the date of this report the Board professional qualifications and brings a Directors meet with the Chairman twice experience which we believe will enhance and developments.
Approval of the Groups treasury policy: comprises sixteen Directors: the truly global and diverse perspective to per year.
The Chief Executive and Finance the Board.
Chairman, six Executive Directors and nine Board discussions.
In addition he provides 86 86 87 87 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE c orpor ate go vernance report contInUeD All Directors have access to advice from debate and challenge and that everyone Executive Committee Committee takes into consideration the effectiveness of the system of internal trail between the Groups financial the Company Secretary and independent has ample opportunity to contribute, The Executive Committee meets monthly recommendations of the Chief Executive control as part of its year end procedures.
reporting system and the Groups statutory professional advisors, at the Companys even when the agenda is full: and reviews the financial and operating and Finance Director regarding the The key features of the system of internal financial statements.
expense, where specific expertise is performance of all Group divisions remuneration of their Executive colleagues.
control include: the need continually to re-assess risk in Investment and contracting controls required in the course of their duties.
The Chief Executive, the uncertain macro environment: and The principles and details of Directors Clear organisational structure The Group has clearly defined guidelines RCPerrins, chairs this Committee and Board evaluation further development on diversity and remuneration are contained in the The Group operates through autonomous for the purchase and sale of land within other members comprise A WPidgley The Code requires that the Board inclusion throughout the business to Directors Remuneration Report on pages divisions and operating companies, each the Group, which include detailed legal, CBE, SEllis, R J Stearn, J Tibaldi, undertakes an annual evaluation of its own ensure that all persons of talent are 94 to 115. with its own Board.
Operating company environmental, planning and financial PMVallone and KWhiteman.
performance and that of its committees identified and supported to bring Boards meet on a weekly basis and appraisal and are subject to executive Nomination Committee and individual Directors with an externally through the next generation of leaders.
Audit Committee divisional Boards on a monthly basis, and authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also The Nomination Committee ensures facilitated evaluation conducted at least The Audit Committee is responsible for comprehensive information is prepared for followed for the selection of consultants Conflicts of interest that the membership and composition every three years.
External reviews having monitoring and reviewing the financial such meetings on a standardised basis to and contractors.
The review and In accordance with the Companies of the Board, including the balance of been conducted in each of the last three reporting and accounting policies of cover all aspects of the business.
Formal monitoring of all build programmes and Act 2006, the Companys Articles of skills, is appropriate, as well as giving full years, the Board evaluation for 2018 was the Company, reviewing the adequacy reporting lines and delegated levels of budgets are a fundamental element of the Association allow the Board to authorise consideration to succession planning on a internally facilitated by the Group Solicitor of internal controls and the activities of authority exist within this structure and the Companys financial reporting cycle.
potential conflicts of interest that may arise regular basis.
in one-to-one confidential discussions with the Groups internal audit function and review of risk and performance occurs at and to impose such limits or conditions Policies and procedures each of the Main Board Directors.
overseeing the relationship with the multiple levels throughout the operating The Committee is chaired by the Chairman, as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a Policies and procedures, including external auditor.
The Audit Committee companies, divisions and at a Group level.
AW Pidgley CBE, and at 30April 2018 The evaluation concentrated on the conflict of interest can only be made by operating and financial controls, are comprises four independent Non-executive included G Barker, V Wadley CBE and performance of the Board and its non-conflicted Directors those who have Risk assessment detailed in policies and procedures Directors.
The Committee is chaired DBrightmore-Armour who are all Committees over the year which had been no interest in the matter being considered Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing manuals that are refreshed and improved by AMyers and the other members as independent Non-executive Directors.
an important one for succession planning and in making such a decision the Directors management reporting throughout as appropriate.
Training to staff is given at 30April 2018 were A Nimmo CBE, SirJohnArmitt also served as a member of with four new Directors appointed.
The must act in a way they consider in good the Group.
At operating company and where necessary.
V Wadley CBE the Committee during the year.
two new Executive Director appointments faith will be most likely to promote the divisional level, Board meeting agendas also served as a member of the Committee Central functions reflect the Boards belief that Board Companys success.
and information packs are structured The Committee met formally on three during the year.
Strong central functions, including Legal, experience is an important aspect of around the key risks facing the businesses.
occasions during the year to 30 April 2018 The Company has established a procedure Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, developing future leaders.
Long-term A Myers and G Barker are both considered These risks include health and safety, sales, with no absences.
whereby actual and potential conflicts of provide support and consistency to the succession planning is equally important to have recent and relevant experience as production build cost and programme, interest of current and proposed roles to be Group.
In addition, the principal treasuryfor Non-executive Directors and the two An explanation of the role and activities of demonstrated by their biographies on page land and planning, retaining people, undertaken by Directors of the Board with related risks, decisions and control new Non-executive appointments exhibit the Nomination Committee during the year 84.
All members of the Committee have economic and political outlook, regulatory other organisations are regularly reviewed processes are managed by the Group the right attributes to complement those of is contained in the Nomination Committee competence relevant to the residential and site-specific matters.
in respect of both the nature of those Finance function, under the direction of the our existing Board members.
Report on page 93. development sector.
The Committee met roles, and their time commitment, and for In addition, there is a formalised process Finance Director.
During the year, the Board has performed formally on three occasions during the year accoUnTaBILITy proper authorisation to be sought prior to whereby each division produces quarterly well.
The main areas of success have been: to 30 April 2018 with no absences.
Internal audit the appointment of any new Director.
The risk and control reports that identify Internal control and risk management Internal auditors are in place at Group in the identification and appointment Board considers these procedures to be An explanation of the role and activities risks, the potential impact and the The Board acknowledges that it has overall level and divisional level as appropriate, to of the new Non-executive Directors working effectively.
of the Audit Committee during the year is actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
responsibility for ensuring that the Groups provide assurance on the operation of the who had been through a thorough contained in the Audit Committee Report These risk reports are reviewed and system of internal control complies with the Insurance Groups control framework.
appointment and induction process and on pages 91 and 92. updated quarterly.
Code and for reviewing its effectiveness, at The Company had in place at 30 April had both settled in well: least annually.
Whistleblowing 2018 an appropriate policy which insures Remuneration Committee A Group Risk Management Report is the change in the Senior Independent The Group has a whistleblowing policy Directors against certain liabilities, including The Remuneration Committee is presented at each Group Board Meeting, Internal control procedures are designed to Director and Deputy Chairman: which has been communicated to all legal costs, which they may incur in carrying responsible for determining the Companys which overlays wider strategic risks than manage rather than eliminate risk.
They can employees, where Directors, management, the openness of the Board to debate out their duties.
policy for Executive remuneration and those covered by the operations.
This sets only provide reasonable and not absolute employees and external stakeholders and challenge on a wide range of the precise terms of employment and out the annual changes in the risk profile assurance against material misstatement Board Committees can report in confidence any concerns matters, including strategy and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
of the Group, the impact and mitigation of or loss.
The Board has delegated certain matters they may have of malpractice, financial innovation, demonstrating a positive and these risks.
to individual Executives and to the At 30 April 2018, the Committee comprised irregularity, breaches of any Group inclusive culture.
The comments of the There are ongoing processes and specific Committees of the Board: Audit, G Barker, A Myers and P Vernon who are Financial reporting procedures, or other matters.
The policy is new Directors were particularly pertinent procedures for identifying, evaluating and Remuneration and Nomination.
The all independent Non-executive Directors.
A comprehensive budgeting and real-time available to view on the Groups website.
as they felt encouraged to contribute managing the significant risks faced by the main three Board Committees operate The Committee was chaired by GBarker.
forecasting system, covering both profit and challenge on every aspect of the Group.
These processes and procedures Bribery Act and Anti-Money Laundering within clearly defined Terms of Reference Sir John Armitt served as a member of the and cash, operates within the Group.
This matters under discussion: and were in place from the start of the financial Regulations pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
The Committee during the year.
enables executive management to view year to the date on which the 2018 Annual the strong and constructive working The Board has responsibility for complying Terms of Reference can be downloaded key financial and operating data on a daily Report and Accounts were approved and relationship between the Executive and The Committee met formally on two with the requirements of the Bribery from the section dealing with Investor basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis accord with Principles C. 2.1 and C. 2.3 of the Non-executive Directors.
occasions during the year to 30 April 2018 Act 2010 and The Money Laundering, Relations on the Companys website.
more formal reporting up to the Group Code and with the FRCs Guidance on Risk with no absences.
Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds The Board identified three key areas of Copies are also available to shareholders on Executives is prepared.
The results of all Management, Internal Control and Related Information on the Payer Regulations importance for the coming year: application to the Company Secretary.
operating units are reported monthly and No Director is involved in deciding his Business Reporting.
2017 and is charged with overseeing the ensuring that the size of the Board, an compared to budget and forecast.
The Executive The responsibilities of the key Board development and implementation of The processes are regularly reviewed by increase of 30%, does not hamper open Directors decide the remuneration of Committees are described below.
There is a consolidation process in place the Groups policies and procedures and the Board and include an annual review the Non-executive Directors and the which ensures that there is an audit monitoring ongoing compliance.
by the Directors of the operation and 88 88 89 89 01 01 S STRA traTEGIC REPOR tegic reporT t 02 02 GO goVERNANCE vernance 03 03 FINANCIALS FinancialS BERKELEY berkeley ANNU AnnuAL Al REPOR reporT t 20 2018 18 GO GoVERNANCE vernance berkeley BERKELEY Annu ANNUA AL l r REPOR eport T 20 2018 18 Go GOvernance VERNANCE c orpor ate a UDI t go vernance co MMI ttee report report contInUeD reMUneraTIon to shareholders so as to allow at least The Board of Directors presents its Audit significant financial reporting judgements development obligations, estate liabilities 20working days for consideration prior Committee Report for the year ended 30 relevant to this.
The basis for determining The principles and details of Directors to the AGM.
April 2018 which has been prepared on the these provisions was presented to the remuneration are contained in the The Committee reviewed, prior to their recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages The Company complies with the provisions publication, the financial disclosures in the The Committee reviewed the relevant 94 to 115. of the Code relating to the disclosure of The report has been prepared in Groups Annual Report and Accounts, Half papers and discussed the assumptions proxy votes, which, including abstentions, accordance with the requirements of the Year and Year end Results Announcements underlying this determination with reLaTIon S WITH are declared at the AGM after each UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule and the contents of Trading Updates management and the Groups external SHare HoLDerS resolution has been dealt with on a show 8 of the Large & Medium-Sized Companies issued during the year.
The Committees auditor, and concluded that it was The Company encourages active of hands and are announced to the Stock and Groups Accounts and Reports review incorporated consideration of the satisfied that the assumptions adopted dialogue with its current and prospective Exchange shortly after the close of the Regulations 2008, and the Listing Rules of appropriateness of the relevant accounting were appropriate.
A table of movements shareholders through ongoing meetings meeting.
The Company also complies the Financial Conduct Authority.
policies and financial reporting estimates in provisions over the period is included or calls with institutional investors.
During with the requirements of the Code and judgements adopted therein.
in note 15 to the financial statements.
Details of the composition and experience 2017 18 discussions covered topics such regarding the separation of resolutions of the Committee can be found in the The Committees review of the Annual revenue recognition as performance, markets, strategy and and the attendance of the Chairmen of Directors biographies on pages 83 to 85 Report concentrated on whether, The Committee recognises that the governance.
In addition to these regular the Board Committees.
and details of the number of meetings of taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced Groups accounting policy for revenue meetings, Executive Directors, have spoken The terms and conditions of appointment the Committee are reported on page 88 of and understandable and provided the recognition, namely that properties are to several shareholders and proxy advisory for the Non-executive Directors, which the Corporate Governance Report.
information necessary for users of the treated as sold and profits are recognised agents in order to discuss their concerns set out their expected time commitment, Annual Report to assess the Groups when contracts are exchanged and regarding the re-election of Adrian Li.
The in addition to the service contracts for business strategy and performance.
building work is physically complete, roLe anD reSPonSIBILITIeS Board also meets with retail shareholders the Executive Directors, are available involves an element of judgement in oF THe aUDIT coMMITTee at the Annual General Meeting.
The views of the Groups external auditor, for inspection at the AGM and during determining the point at which building who was in attendance at each meeting of The Committee has formal Terms of Shareholders are also kept up to date normal business hours at the Companys work is physically complete and the the Committee during the year, were taken Reference which set out its role and the with the Companys activities through registered office.
ability of the purchaser to complete.
The into account in reaching its conclusions on authority delegated to it by the Board.
The the Annual Reports, Interim Results Committee reviewed the quantum of these matters.
Terms of Reference were reviewed and announcements and Trading Updates.
In properties not yet legally completed at updated during 2017 18 together with the addition, the corporate website provides The significant matters considered by the each balance sheet date, in conjunction policy on the Independence of External information on the Group and latest news, Committee during the 2017 18 financial with the review undertaken by the Auditors.
The key responsibilities of the including regulatory announcements.
year included: Groups external auditor and concluded Committee are as follows: The presentations made after the that the judgements were appropriate.
carrying value of inventories and announcement of the preliminary and Financial reporting The Committee also reviewed and margin recognition interim results are also available in the Monitoring the integrity of the financial debated a paper on the impact of Inventories comprise work in progress, Investor Relations section of the website.
reporting of the Company and reviewing the new IFRS 15 Revenue standard completed units and land not under significant financial reporting matters The Board is kept informed of the views applicable to the Group from 1 May 2018. development, which are held in the and accounting policies: of the shareholders through periodic It concluded that a change in the point balance sheet at the lower of cost and reports from the Companys broker, UBS.
risk Management and Internal control of revenue recognition was appropriate net realisable value.
This requires a Additionally, the Non-executive Directors Reviewing the adequacy and as IFRS 15 focuses on the point at periodic assessment by management have the opportunity to attend the bieffectiveness of the Groups risk which control of the asset rests with the of each of Berkeleys sites which is annual analyst presentations.
management and internal control customer which taking into account the sensitive to assumptions in terms of systems and monitoring the indicators of control in the standard is future sales prices and construction The Senior Independent Director is effectiveness of the Groups internal considered to be legal completion.
Under costs, and recognises the inherently available to shareholders if they have audit function: and the previous standard, IAS 18, revenue cyclical nature of the property market concerns where contact through the was recognised when the significant risks external audit and the risks of delivery notably over the normal channels has failed or when such and rewards of ownership had passed to Overseeing the relationship with the longer term sites.
These assumptions contact is inappropriate.
The impact of this change external auditor, including appointment, are also relevant to the determination Annual General Meeting is set out in the Accounting Policies note removal and fees, and ensuring the of profit recognised on properties sold.
All shareholders are invited to participate to the financial statements.
auditors independence and the The conclusions of this assessment were in the Annual General Meeting AGM effectiveness of the audit process.
reported by exception to the Committee Audit Quality Review on 5 September 2018 at 11:00am where in a financial overview paper prior to During the year we were notified by KPMG This report considers each of these the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the release of the Groups annual results.
LLP KPMG that the Financial Reporting responsibilities in turn, and how the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Provisions Councils FRC Audit Quality Review Committee has discharged them during Nomination Committees will be available to The Committee recognises that AQR team would review KPMGs audit the year.
answer questions and will also be available accounting for provisions relies on of the Groups 2017 financial statements, for discussions with shareholders both management judgement in estimating as part of their annual inspection of FInancIaL rePorTInG prior to and after the meeting.
the quantum and timing of outflows of audit firms.
The Committee reviewed the At each of the Audit Committee meetings, resources to settle any associated legal findings of the AQR report with KPMG In accordance with the Code, the Company the Finance Director presented, and the or constructive obligations.
The Group and the Chair of the Audit Committee arranges for the Annual Report and Committee debated, the results and holds provisions for post-completion met with the FRC team to discuss their Accounts and related papers to be posted business plan of the Group and any 90 90 91 91
