1.1 Chairmans Review Our long term view remains positive and we are well placed to meet demand for commodities that the world needs well into the future.
Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to provide this Annual Report of your Companys Throughout FY2018, I have also met with many of our shareholders performance in FY2018.
I recently concluded my second global investor roadshow, where discussions centred on five key priorities for This year, we have further simplified and strengthened BHP, BHP safety, our portfolio, capital discipline, capability and culture, enhanced our Capital Allocation Framework, sharpened our focus and our social licence.
Our unrelenting focus on these key areas on culture and productivity and delivered a solid set of financial is fundamental to our efforts to create value for our shareholders, results.
This has enabled us to announce a record final dividend and to continue to make a difference.
I will provide an update on our progress against these themes at We have also invested in the future.
Earlier this year, your Board our Annual General Meetings in London and Adelaide, later in the approved US$2.9 billion in capital expenditure for the South calendar year.
Flank iron ore project in Western Australia, following a thorough evaluation against our Capital Allocation Framework.
South Your Board takes a structured and rigorous approach to succession Flank offers attractive returns for shareholders and will enhance planning.
We consider Board size, tenure and the skills, experience the average quality grade of BHPs Western Australia Iron and attributes required to effectively govern and manage risk Ore production.
within BHP to ensure we have the right balance between experience and fresh perspectives.
We also take account of the rapidly To further strengthen our portfolio, we undertook a robust and changing external environment and BHPs circumstances.
competitive sales process for our Onshore US assets in FY2018.
We anticipate completing the sale of these assets by the end I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the significant of October.
We understand that cash returns are important contribution Wayne Murdy has made to the Board of BHP over to shareholders, and we expect to return the net proceeds from the last nine years.
Wayne recently advised that he will not stand these transactions to shareholders.
for re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meetings.
On behalf of all of his colleagues on the Board, I would like to thank Wayne Throughout this first year as Chairman of BHP, I have visited for his valuable contribution, friendship and wise counsel, and a number of our assets around the world.
Wherever I have I wish him all the best for the future.
travelled, I have been struck by the commitment of our people to Our Charter values and their dedication to this While we remain cautious about the short term market outlook, great company.
our long term view remains positive and we are well placed to meet demand for commodities that the world needs well into the future.
Our people are the backbone of BHP and their safety is of paramount importance.
So it is with deep sadness that we report I am confident that BHP, led by Andrew Mackenzie and his the deaths of two of our colleagues at work in FY2018.
We achieve management team, has the right assets and capability, and your nothing if it is not done safely and in the wake of these tragedies, Company is well placed to continue delivering shareholder value we have redoubled efforts to protect the health and safety of and returns.
everyone who works at BHP.
Thank you for your continued support of BHP.
Ken MacKenzie Chairman 4 BHP Annual Report 2018
