Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 12.0INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Independent assurance statement by Deloitte LLP Deloitte or we to Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow on selected indicators disclosed within their Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Report What we looked at: scope of our work We have been engaged by Big Yellow to perform limited assurance procedures on selected Group level Corporate Social Responsibility CSR performance indicators the Subject Matter for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The assured data are indicated by the symbol in the Report.
Carbon footprint indicators: Store electricity tCO e 2 Store flexi-office gas emissions tCO e 2 Refrigerant emissions tCO e 2 Absolute carbon dioxide emissions tCO e 2 Store electricity use, CO emissions and carbon intensity: 2 Electricity use kWh Like-for-like electricity use tCO2e Absolute carbon emissions tCO e 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m gross internal area 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m occupied space 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e revenue 2 Renewable energy generation and CO emissions reductions: 2 Total renewable energy kWh Renewable energy percentage of total store use % Staff, customer, and visitor health and safety: Average number of employees Minor Injuries Reportable injuries RIDDOR Annual Injury Incidence rate AIR per 100,000 staff Notices Construction fit-out health and safety Minor Injuries Reportable injuries RIDDOR What we found: our assurance opinion Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected CSR performance indicators, as noted above, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Big Yellows reporting criteria as described at: http: corporate.
co. uk csr csr-reports What standards we used: basis of our work and level of assurance We carried out limited assurance in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised ISAE 3000.
To achieve limited assurance ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes and systems used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance.
This standard requires that we comply with the independence and ethical requirements and to plan and perform our assurance engagement to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence on which to base our limited assurance conclusion.
It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls.
This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim financial information.
This provides less assurance and is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement.
54 What we did: our key assurance procedures Considering the risk of material error, our multi-disciplinary team of CSR assurance specialists planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support our assurance conclusion.
Our work was planned to mirror Big Yellows own group level compilation processes, tracing how data for each indicator within our assurance scope was collected, collated and validated by corporate head office and included in the Report.
Key procedures we carried out included: Making inquiries of management to obtain an understanding of the overall governance and internal control environment relevant to management and reporting of the subject matter: Understanding, analysing, and testing on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures, and controls relating to the aggregation, validation and reporting of the subject matter set out above: and Reviewing the content of the CSR Report 2018 against the findings of our work and making recommendations for improvement where necessary.
Big Yellows responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Report and for the information and statements contained within it.
They are responsible for determining the CSR goals, performance and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived.
Deloittes responsibilities, independence and team competencies Our responsibility is to independently express a conclusion on the performance data for the year ended 31 March 2018.
We performed the engagement in accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which cover all of the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics and in some cases are more restrictive.
The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
We confirm to Big Yellow that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
This report is made solely to Big Yellow in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Big Yellow for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 21 May 2018 55
