Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 60 to 63 forms part of this report.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are included in note 25 to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company is included in the Strategic Report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 18 to the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 15.5 pence per share for the year 2017: 14.1 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 15.3 pence per share was paid in the year 2017: 13.5 pence per share.
A property income dividend of 27.5 pence is payable for the year, of which 15.3 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 12.2 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 July 2018, the final dividend will be paid on 27 July 2018.
The Ex-div date is 21 June 2018 and the Record date is 22 June 2018.
From April 2016 dividend tax credits have been replaced by an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals entire share portfolio.
This reduces further to 2,000 per annum from 1 April 2018.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid by Big Yellow Group PLC and this should be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the UK government Budget, in July 2015.
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Companies Act 2006: Climate Change, the GHG Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013 From October 2013, all listed companies are required to report annual quantities of GHG emissions measured as Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e as follows: 2 Scope 1 significant direct emission sources, such as our flexi-office gas heating and air conditioner coolant replacement currently fit out gas oil use emissions and one Company van diesel fuel use emissions are assessed as not material: Scope 2 significant indirect or offsite power station electricity supply emissions to our stores: and Scope 3 Electricity supplier transmission and distribution emissions currently, voluntary GHG emissions, from our waste and water supply chains are assessed as not material.
Summary of Scope 1 and 2 Total Carbon Footprint GHG carbon equivalent emissions tCO e 2 Including store electricity, gas, coolant, generator gas oil and van diesel Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions tCO e 6,470.0 5,681.8 4,908.0 4,456.2 4,126.9 3,520.5 2 Scope 3 Electricity Transmission Losses 501 445 417 355 357 312 Kg CO e Annual Revenue 0.09 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.04 0.03 2 2 Kg CO e Customer Occupancy m 26.5 22.6 17.3 14.6 12.7 10.2 2 2 Kg CO e GIFA m 11.1 9.8 7.7 7.2 6.6 5.3 2 Note: Our materiality threshold for carbon emissions is 5% Further information on GHG emissions and on other sustainability initiatives at Big Yellow is provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company's issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23, and details of shares held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 22.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Report on Corporate Governance on page 60.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 687,707 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2017: 513,580.
57 Directors Report continued Directors The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and to the date of approval of the financial statements, except as noted below, were as follows: Tim Clark Non-Executive Director Richard Cotton Senior Independent Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer Georgina Harvey Non-Executive Director Steve Johnson Non-Executive Director Anna Keay Non-Executive Director appointed 1 March 2018 Adrian Lee Operations Director Vince Niblett Non-Executive Director appointed 1 June 2017 Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director resigned 20 July 2017 John Trotman Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election are set out on page 56.
Directors indemnities The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Political contributions No political donations were made by the Company in either the current or preceding financial year.
Substantial shareholdings The Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company at 31 March 2018 and 21 May 2018.
Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
Purchase of own shares The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2017 to purchase its own shares up to a total aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
That authority expires at this years AGM and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
During the year the Company made no purchases of its own shares.
Employee consultation The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors executive meetings are frequently held in stores and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
The Board is cognisant of the new Corporate Governance proposals for more formal employee engagement, requiring it to gather the views of the workforce.
The options current proposed involve i having a designated Non-Executive Director to gather the views from, for example, an employee forum: or ii appointing a formal workforce advisory panel: or iii having a Director appointed from the workforce.
The Group is assessing these options and will report further in next years annual report.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
50% of eligible employees participate in the Groups Sharesave Scheme.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
58 Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Human Rights Big Yellow respects Human Rights and aims to provide assurance to internal and external stakeholders that we are committed to human rights and the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to creating and maintaining a positive and professional work environment that reflects and respects the basic rights of freedom to lead a dignified life, free from fear or want, and where stakeholders are free to express their independent beliefs.
Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where decisions are made solely on the basis of individual capability and potential in relation to the needs of the business.
Modern Slavery Act The Group is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
Our Anti-slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
Our policy is published in full on our website.
Auditor In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he she might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Company Secretary 21 May 2018 59
