Our Business Model Tried and Tested....
Attractive market dynamics UK self storage penetration in key urban conurbations remains relatively low.
Limited new supply coming onto the market.
Sector growth is positive, with increasing domestic demand.
Our competitive advantage UK industrys most recognised brand.
Prominent stores on arterial or main roads, with extensive frontage and high visibility.
Largest share of web traffic from mobile and desktop platforms.
Strong customer satisfaction and NPS scores reflecting excellent customer service.
5.6 million sq ft UK footprint Big Yellow and Armadillo combined.
Primarily freehold estate concentrated in London and South East and other large metropolitan cities.
Larger average store capacity economies of scale, higher operating margins.
Secure financing structure with strong balance sheet.
Evergreen income streams 55,000 customers from a diverse base individuals, SMEs and national accounts.
Average length of stay for existing customers of 26 months.
30% of customers in stores greater than two year length of stay.
Low bad debt expense 0.2% of revenue in the year.
Strong growth opportunities Opportunities to drive further occupancy growth.
Yield management as occupancy increases.
Densification of living and scarcity of flexible business space drives demand.
Growth in national accounts and business customer base.
Increasing the platform financed from internal resources.
Growth in our Armadillo platform.
Conversion into quality returns Freehold assets for high operating margins and operational advantage.
Low technology and obsolescence product, maintenance capex fully expensed.
Annual compound adjusted eps growth of 16% since 2004 5 IFRS adoption year.
Annual compound cash flow growth of 16% since 2004 5. Dividend payout ratio of 80% of adjusted eps Evergreen Income Attractive Streams Market Dynamics Conversion Our Into Proven Quality Model Returns Our Competitive Advantage Strong Growth Opportunities BIG YELLOWS UNPROMPTED BRAND AWARENESS ACROSS THE UK IS SEVEN TIMES HIGHER THAN OUR NEAREST COMPETITOR.
The self storage market acquisition of the Big Yellow Limited Partnership stores, a regional portfolio, In the recently published 2018 Self Storage Association UK Survey, only with a lower average net rent per sq ft.
In 2016 closing net rent increased 46% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good awareness of self by 2.7%, by 0.5% in 2017 and by 2.7% in the current year.
Furthermore, only 6% of the 2,083 adults surveyed were currently on continuing to grow occupancy, with growth in net rent following once using self storage, or were thinking of using self storage, in the next year.
the stores have reached higher occupancy levels.
This indicates a continued opportunity for growth and with increasing use Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share which drive the of self storage, together with the ongoing marketing efforts of everyone distributions to shareholders as our dividend policy is to pay 80% of in the industry, we anticipate awareness will grow.
adjusted earnings as dividends are also KPIs.
The Group focuses on adjusted profits and earnings measures as they give a clearer underlying Self storage is not a commoditised product and awareness is driven picture of the Groups trading performance without distortion from external largely by businesses and individuals using self storage.
Consequently, factors such as property valuations and the fair value of derivatives.
We have the increase in awareness over time has been relatively slow, with good delivered compound adjusted eps and dividend growth of 17% over the past awareness of self storage increasing from 38% in 2014 to 46% in 2018 five years.
Compound adjusted eps growth since 2004 5 is 16%.
We have across the UK source: UK SSA Survey 2018.
Our YouGov Survey carried illustrated the Groups performance in these measures over the past five out in April 2018 showed higher levels of awareness in London of 63%, up years on page 1. from 58% in 2014.
Growth in new facilities across the industry has been largely in regional Our non-financial KPIs are the net promoter scores we receive from our areas of the UK and in particular in smaller towns.
In London in the year customers and the carbon intensity of the Groups business.
The to 31 March 2018, we believe there were five new store openings offset Groups net promoter score received from its customers during the year by three closures.
This has increased by 33% over the past five years.
We believe this overall score compares very favourably with other consumer The Self Storage Association SSA estimates that the UK industry is facing businesses.
made up of approximately 1,504 self storage facilities of which 345 are purely container operations, providing 44.6 million sq ft of self storage The Group has reduced its carbon intensity our carbon emissions space, equating to 0.7 sq ft per person in the UK.
This compares to 9.5 sq ft divided by our average occupied space by 55% over the past five per person in the US, 1.8 sq ft per person in Australia and 0.1 sq ft for years.
This has been achieved through investment in renewable mainland Europe, where the roll-out of self storage is a more recent technology, roof mounted solar photo-voltaic systems, and LED lighting phenomenon source: FEDESSA European Self Storage Annual Survey across the Groups portfolio.
393 self storage facilities in the UK are held by large operators Operational and Marketing Review defined as those managing 10 facilities or more, which represents 34% of the total number of self storage centres excluding container Overview operations, but the SSA estimate over 40% of total capacity.
Given the We now have a portfolio of 74 open and trading Big Yellow stores, with dominance of the larger brands in the South East, we would expect the a further ten development sites including one extension opportunity.
proportion of revenue earned by the top five operators to be in excess of The current maximum lettable area of the 74 stores is 4.6 million sq ft. 40% of the annual industry turnover of 750 million.
When fully built out the portfolio will provide approximately 5.3 million Big Yellow is well placed to benefit from the growing self storage sq ft of flexible storage space.
market, given the strength of our brand, and our online platform which In addition we part-own and manage 22 Armadillo stores which are delivers 88% of our prospect enquiries.
Our portfolio is strategically principally located in northern UK towns and cities, and operate from focussed on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities, a platform of 1.0 million sq ft. where barriers to entry and economic activity are at their highest.
Growth in new self storage centre openings, excluding container operators, over the last six years has averaged 1% to 2% of total capacity KPIs per annum, down significantly from the previous decade.
Additionally, in The Groups KPIs are shown in the charts on page 1.
The key performance our core markets in London and the South East, high land values driven indicators of our stores are occupancy and net rent per sq ft, which by competing uses such as residential, and complex planning rules, are together drive the revenue of the business.
These are three key measures making the creation of new supply very difficult for all operators.
We which are focussed on by the Board, and are reported on a weekly basis.
believe that we are in a relatively strong position given the strength of our Over the course of the past five years, both occupancy and revenue have balance sheet and our proven property development expertise, together grown significantly.
Closing net rent per sq ft grew by 6.1% in the year to with our ability to access funding to exploit the right opportunities.
31 March 2014, but decreased by 3.5% in 2015 principally reflecting the 17 Strategic Report continued Operations There is a growing trend towards self-employment and smaller The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has business start-ups in the UK, dynamics that are positive for self 60,000 sq ft of MLA and takes some three to four years to achieve 85% storage.
Additionally, businesses in the UK are increasingly seeking plus occupancy.
The average room size occupied in the portfolio is flexible office and storage space rather than longer inflexible leases.
currently 68 sq ft, in line with last year.
The store is open seven days The deindustrialisation of big cities with the conversion of commercial a week and is initially run by three staff, with a part time member of space into residential and other uses, is also a driver for demand from staff added once the store occupancy justifies the need for the extra the SME market seeking flexible warehouse space.
During the year, the Group commissioned an external survey to assess The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency across the impact the average Big Yellow store generates for its local economy.
the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent customer 35% of the Groups space is occupied by business customers, and the service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a satisfied average store is home to 105 different businesses who between them customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer service employ 300 people as a direct result of their occupation.
60% of the standards through a programme of mystery shopping and online businesses that occupy our stores are start-ups who have never rented customer reviews, which are externally managed.
Over the year, we space anywhere else before.
For over half of the businesses, this is the have achieved an average net promoter score of 80. only space they rent, for others this complements their other space.
The report estimated that across Big Yellow over 23,000 jobs are created We have a team of nine area managers in place who have on average working for over 7,700 businesses.
In addition, average local Gross Value worked for Big Yellow for 13 years.
They develop and support the stores Added generated by Big Yellows business customers in each store is to drive the growth of the business.
approximately 17 million per annum, or over 1 billion nationally.
The store bonus structure rewards occupancy performance, sales Of our occupied space today, customers who are longer stay lifestyle growth and cost control through quarterly targets based on occupancy users, decluttering into small rooms as an extension to their and store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales accommodation, occupy 10% to 15%: 50% to 55% are using it for less of insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is than 12 months largely event driven, which could be inheritance, circulated monthly and stores are consulted in preparing their own moving in the owner occupied or rental sector, home improvements, targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a travelling: and the balance of 35% are businesses.
better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers who We believe, that as a consumer-facing branded business, it is paramount wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are billed and to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
We have four full time members of staff working on continue to invest in preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the growing and managing our national account customers.
The national repair and replacement of essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any location for our The ongoing annual expenditure is approximately 35,000 per store, customers.
In smaller towns where we do not have representation, we have which is included within cost of sales.
This excludes our rolling programme negotiated sub-contract arrangements with other operators who meet certain of store makeovers, which typically take place every five years, at a cost operating standards.
Over the last five years we have invested 12 million in the upkeep and maintenance of our stores, all of Marketing and ecommerce which has been expensed in the income statement.
Our marketing strategy focuses on driving enquiries and customer satisfaction through our digital platforms.
Demand Demand for self storage is largely driven by need, with security, For the last 12 years, we have commissioned a YouGov survey to help us convenience, quality of product, service and location being key drivers.
In our most recent survey conducted in April Awareness remains relatively low compared to commoditised products, 2018, we used a statistically robust sample size of 1,000 respondents in such as hotel rooms or airline seats, albeit it is increasing slowly year on London and 2,003 for the rest of the UK.
The survey has shown our prompted year with increased supply, marketing spend and customer use.
awareness to be at 71% in London, over two and a half times higher than our nearest competitor and 46% for the rest of the UK, over three times higher We are confident that Big Yellow benefits disproportionately from this than our nearest competitor.
improving market for our product, due to our market-leading brand and operating platform with our focus on London, the South East and large For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 46%, six and a half metropolitan cities.
Our digital platform now accounts for 88% of our times higher than our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK it is 23%, prospects, of which over half come through our mobile site.
nearly eight times higher than our nearest competitor.
The UK Self Storage Association SSA has also conducted a brand awareness survey with Customers renting storage space whilst moving within the rental or owner similar results.
According to their YouGov survey conducted in January 2018, occupied sectors represent 42% of move-ins during the year 2017: 43%.
Big Yellows unprompted brand awareness across the UK is seven times 11% of our customers who moved in took storage space as a spare room higher than our nearest competitor.
These surveys continue to prove we are for decluttering 2017: 11%.
35% of our customers used the product the UKs brand leader in self storage.
because some event has occurred in their lives generating the need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have inherited possessions, are getting married or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into their lofts or basements 2017: 34%.
The balance of 12% of our customer demand during the year came from businesses 2017: 12%.
18 The Big Yellow website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or 12 weeks ended 12 May 2018.
This clearly indicates, that although self smartphone, delivers the largest share of our prospects, accounting for storage is a relatively immature industry with 70% to 75% of customers 88% of all sales leads across the year ended 31 March 2018.
Telephone using it for the first time, brand is important in driving higher levels of is the first point of contact for 8% of our prospects and walk in enquiries, prospects and customer referrals, leading to improved operational where we have had no previous contact with a prospect, represent 4%.
We have demonstrated this through significant improvements in performance of existing storage centres following their We have the largest online market share of web visits to self storage acquisition, rebranding and assimilation into our business.
company websites in the UK.
Across the year ended 31 March 2018, our online market share of web visits ranged from 28% to 34%.
Our nearest The sponsored search listings remain the largest source of paid for competitor ranged from 18% to 24% online market share for the same traffic and we ensure our prominence in these listings is balanced with period source: Connexity Hitwise 35 largest UK self storage operators.
effective landing pages to maximise website conversion.
We monitor and improve the website user journeys on an ongoing Efficiencies in online spend are continuing into the year ending 31 March basis.
We are committed to making the experience as easy, intuitive 2019, ensuring the return on investment is maximised from all of our and informative as possible for our customers.
Both the mobile specific different online traffic sources.
Online marketing budgets will continue to website, which itself accounted for 53% of our web visits in the year, remain focussed on the media with the best return on investment.
and our desktop site are designed with helpful and time saving online Social media tools such as Check-in Online, online FAQs, video store tours, online Social media continues to be complementary to our existing marketing chat, BoxShop and a Click and Collect service for packing materials.
Our activity is most focussed on Twitter and Facebook, not These all help the customer to make an informed choice about their only monitoring and answering queries regarding self storage, but also self storage requirements.
publishing our own creative posts, advice, news and CSR initiatives.
Online customer reviews The Big Yellow YouTube channel is used to showcase our stores to web Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart of prospects through a video store tour.
We use both domestic and business our business, our online customer reviews generate real-time feedback versions to help prospects experience the quality of the product without from customers as well as providing positive word of mouth referral to the need for them to visit the store in person.
Our online blog is updated our web visitors.
Through our Big Impressions customer feedback regularly with tips and advice for homeowners and businesses, as well programme, we ask our new customers to rate our service.
With the as summaries of our charitable and CSR initiatives.
We have also users permission, we then publish these independent reviews on the developed our LinkedIn profile to help promote Big Yellow as an inviting Big Yellow website.
There are currently over 23,000 of these customer and engaging place to work and as a direct recruitment channel.
reviews published averaging 4.8 out of 5.
PR The Big Impressions programme also generates customer feedback on We have been developing regional PR stories throughout the year to their experience when they move out of a Big Yellow store and also help raise the awareness of Big Yellow and the benefits of self storage from those prospects who decided not to store with us.
We have been highlighting newsworthy stories of programme reinforces best practice of customer service at our stores charitable endeavours from Big Yellow staff or the support we provide where customer reviews and mystery shop results are transparently to the local charities through offering free storage.
We also gain real-time customer insight from over 3,800 Google Budget Reviews averaging 4.5 out of 5 and 1,100 TrustPilot Reviews currently During the year the Group spent approximately 4.7 million on averaging 9.5 out of 10. marketing 4% of total store revenue.
We have increased the budget We regularly monitor any mentions of Big Yellow within all customer for the year ahead to 5.3 million with a focus on delivering and reviews, on social media, external blogs, news sites and across the converting more prospects to our stores from our digital channels.
We use this insight to monitor our brand and continually Cyber security improve our service offering.
The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of Driving online traffic cyber security and we have dedicated in-house monitoring.
We Self storage is a consumer facing business and the development of continue to invest in and review our security systems and we limit the strong, sustainable brands is multi-layered and requires a consistency retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
Some of the of product, customer service and interaction at all touch points, changes include more frequent penetration testing of internet facing particularly online, which represents 88% of our total enquiries.
systems, adding components such as anti-ransomware as well as the maintenance and replacement of components such as firewalls to Search engines are the most important acquisition tool for us, accounting the latest technology and specification.
Policies and procedures are for the majority of traffic to our website.
We continue to invest in search under regular review and benchmarked against industry best practice engine optimisation SEO techniques both on and off the site.
This helps by our consultants.
These policies also include defend, detect and us to maintain high positions for the most popular and most searched for response policies.
We have aligned our policies and procedures to self storage related search terms in the organic listings on Google.
Of the ensure our compliance with the new EU General Data Protection top 100 self storage search terms, 47 feature brands, representing Regulation GDPR which comes into effect on 25 May 2018. approximately 50% of the search traffic source: Connexity Hitwise, 19
