Strategic Report Our Strategic Report discusses the following areas: Our strategy and business model Operational and marketing review Store performance Financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Going concern basis and viability statement Corporate social responsibility Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Our Strategy and Business Model 65% of our current annualised store revenue derives from within the M25: for London and the South East, the proportion of current annualised store Our Strategy revenue is 83%.
Any future external growth will be executed in a way that Our strategy from the outset has been to develop Big Yellow into the is likely to maintain a balance of 80% in London and the South East and market leading self storage brand, delivering excellent customer service, 20% in regional cities.
with a great culture and highly motivated employees.
We continue to be Our Big Yellow stores are on average 62,000 sq ft, compared to an industry the market leading brand, with unprompted awareness of seven times average of approximately 46,000 sq ft source: The Self Storage Association that of our nearest competitor source: YouGov survey, April 2018.
The upside from filling our larger than average We concentrate on developing our stores in main road locations with high sized stores is, in our view, only possible in large metropolitan markets, visibility, where our distinctive branding generates high awareness of where self storage demand from domestic and business customers is the Big Yellow.
Our accreditation in 2016 for the Best 100 Companies to work highest.
As the operating costs of our assets are relatively fixed, larger for was pleasing as an independent assessment of our employee stores in bigger urban conurbations, particularly London, drive higher engagement, and our customer satisfaction survey scores remain very revenues and higher operating margins.
high, with an average customer net promoter score of 80 in the year, and average Trustpilot scores of 9.5 out of 10.
We continue to believe that the medium term opportunity to create shareholder value will be achieved principally by increasing occupancy Self storage demand from businesses and individuals at any given and net rent per sq ft in our existing platform to drive revenue, the majority store is linked in part to local economic activity, consumer and business of which flows through to the bottom line.
Our key objectives remain: confidence, all of which are inter-related.
Fluctuations in housing activity whether in the rented or owner occupied sector, are also a factor and in leveraging our market leading brand position to generate new our view influence the top slice of demand over and above a core prospects, principally from our digital, mobile and desktop platforms: occupancy.
The performance of our stores was relatively resilient during focusing on training, selling skills, and customer satisfaction to the collapse in housing activity and GDP over the period 2007 to 2009, maximise prospect conversion and referrals: with London and the South East proving to be less volatile.
growing occupancy and net rent so as to drive revenue optimally at each store: Local GDP and hence business and housing activity are greatest in the maintaining a focus on cost control, so revenue growth is transmitted larger urban conurbations and in particular London and the South East.
through to earnings growth: Furthermore, people and businesses are space constrained in these increasing the footprint of the Big Yellow platform principally more densely populated areas.
Barriers to entry in terms of competition through new site development and where possible existing prime for land and difficulty around obtaining planning are also highest in more freehold stores that meet our quality criteria: urbanised locations.
selectively acquiring existing self storage assets into the Armadillo Over the last 19 years we have built a portfolio of 74 Big Yellow self platform: storage centres, largely freehold, purpose-built and focussed on London, maintaining a conservative capital structure in the business with the South East and large metropolitan cities.
We believe that by owning Group interest cover of a minimum of five times: and a predominantly freehold estate we are insulating ourselves against producing sustainable returns for shareholders through a low adverse rent reviews and in the long term possible redevelopment of leverage, low volatility, high distribution REIT.
key stores by the landlord.
We currently have a pipeline of ten freehold In the eighteen years since flotation in May 2000, Big Yellow has delivered development opportunities including one extension and are looking a Total Shareholder Return TSR, including dividends reinvested, of to expand that pipeline with a view to growing the Big Yellow platform 15.0% per annum, in aggregate 1,128% at the closing price of 853p on to 100 stores.
This compares to 6.5% per annum for the FTSE Real Estate Index and 5.0% per annum for the FTSE All Share index over the same period.
This demonstrates the power of compounding over the longer term.
