WE KNOW THAT LIFE The Big Yellow CAN SOMETIMES BOX PEOPLE IN, SO THE BIG Foundation YELLOW FOUNDATION HELPS THEM FIND THE SPACE TO GROW.
Helping vulnerable people lead brighter lives elping our customers when theyre going through a stressful time: our Were really good at h out making their lives easier.
We wanted to extend that philosophy to the whole philosophy is ab wider community.
So we set up the Big Yellow Foundation to help support charities with a similar philosophy: who work hard to help people through tough times and back into employment.
We carefully selected a few that we felt were tackling particularly challenging issues in society, from supporting ex-offenders and ex-service personnel, to people with disabilities and refugees.
Its been something that both our staff and customers have got behind, as we are raising money through customer donations which Big Yellow matches and staff fundraising activities too.
Through volunteering, were also giving our staff the chance to provide an extra pair of hands to these charities.
Were very proud to announce the Foundation was rolled out to all of our stores earlier this year.
king to the communities we operate in.
We look forward This is a long-term commitment we are ma ou in the coming years.
to sharing our successes and stories with y Making a difference to charities we care about 12 Work experience and work placement opportunities are part of how we want to engage with our charity partners.
Breaking Barriers for example, offers a unique approach to helping refugees in London find meaningful employment.
This helps them rebuild their lives and integrate into the UK.
We were able to provide a young refugee with a six month work placement at our Balham store.
His English and general confidence were greatly improved and both he and the store staff found the experience very rewarding.
The Foundation was officially launched in February 2018, although we ran a pilot across 18 stores for 12 months beforehand.
This allowed us to get the messaging just right.
The pilot itself raised just over 45,000.
Another charity we support is Bounce Back.
They are focussed on the training and employment of ex-offenders.
They have an 85% success rate on people who leave prison either going into employment or further training.
In addition to fundraising, our Construction team employed two Bounce Back members through our maintenance contractor to paint the interior walls of our new store in Guildford Central and our extension at Wandsworth.
Through volunteering, the Big Yellow Foundation will provide our employees with opportunities to use their own skills to help benefit our charity partners.
Many of our store teams are also setting their own money raising challenges for the Foundation.
Contents 14 Chairmans Statement 16 Strategic Report 17 Operational and Marketing Review 20 Portfolio Summary Big Yellow Stores 21 Our Stores 25 Portfolio Summary Armadillo Stores 26 Store Performance 29 Financial Review 35 Principal Risk and Uncertainties 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 54 Independent Assurance Statement on the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 56 Directors, Officers and Advisers 57 Directors Report 60 Corporate Governance Report 64 Report of the Nominations Committee 66 Remuneration Report 86 Audit Committee Report 90 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 91 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC 96 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 97 Consolidated Balance Sheet 98 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 99 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 100 Notes to the Financial Statements 127 Company Balance Sheet 128 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 129 Company Cash Flow Statement 130 Notes to the Financial Statements ibc Ten Year Summary 13 Britains favourite self storage company
