Specialist Technologies: Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Services Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP combines very high temperature and pressure to eliminate porosity in castings and consolidate encapsulated powders to give fully dense materials.
Dissimilar materials can be bonded together to manufacture unique, value-added components.
With the largest operational capacity in the Western world, and a wide variety of sizes of equipment, Bodycote is able to accommodate large volumes of small product as economically as large individual components.
INNER STRENGTH The stress on a hip or knee joint when a person jumps off a chair is equal to around 100 tonnes per square inch.
Our bones, effectively composites, absorb such stresses regularly and effectively for much of our lifetime.
When joints fail, they are often replaced with metal alloy implants.
These implants must be incredibly strong, biocompatible, and able to last the lifetime of the patient.
A combination of heat treatment, hot isostatic pressing and coating makes this possible.
Cobalt chromium alloy billets are investment cast to form implant shape.
The castings are thermally sprayed with a biomedical coating to allow a bond to form between the implant and body tissue, promoting bone growth.
The implants are then HIPed to eliminate porosity, improve fatigue life and enhance the bonding of the biocompatible coating.
Solution and ageing heat treatment is used to strengthen the implant.
14 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 14 14 03 2019 15:55:03 Specialist Technologies: HIP PF inc. Powdermet HIP PF is additive manufacturing creating complex high integrity components from powdered metal in conjunction with HIP Hot Isostatic Pressing technology.
HIP PF uses a variety of materials in powder or solid form and can be used to make components with the complexity of a casting but with the strength of a forging.
It can be used to produce materials that cant be manufactured by any other means.
Powdermet technologies combine 3D printing with well-established net shape and near net shape techniques.
Powder Power VALVE BODY Valve components operating in the harsh environments of the oil & gas and chemical industries must withstand extreme material demands and resist attack from a variety of aggressive environments.
Bodycote Powdermet technologies are a group of processes used in the production of complex components.
These processes utilise near net shape NNS, selective surface net shape SSNS and 3D printing techniques either in combination or on their own to produce cost-effective components with minimal production time.
Powdermet technologies produce fully consolidated components that cannot be manufactured to the same degree of complexity or material integrity by forging or casting processes.
Patents pending The valve body begins life as high quality gas atomised stainless steel and nickel-based powders.
The encapsulated valve is then HIPed using high temperatures and pressures which allows the powder to become 100% dense and form an NNS component.
Following material selection, Bodycotes design engineers will work closely with customers to explore the unique The fabricated capsule, almost and flexible component design identical in shape to the finished opportunities afforded by component but larger in size, is Bodycote Powdermet filled with powder.
When the final NNS component design is received from the customer, Bodycote will create an engineering drawing.
Finally the component can be pickled or machined to remove the capsule material resulting in a HIP NNS valve body which is inspected using ultrasonic testing techniques.
End application offshore oil, chemical or energy industries.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 15 14 03 2019 15:55:05 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Specialist Technologies: 3 Specialty Stainless Steel Processes S P 3 S P is a proprietary Bodycote treatment which offers unique surface hardening solutions for stainless steel, nickel-based alloys and 3 cobalt-chromium alloys producing increased mechanical and wear properties without adversely affecting corrosion resistance.
In all S P processes, the corrosion resistance of the base material is not altered, while exhibiting superior wear resistance, strength and ductility, as well as resistance to galling.
Bottle It DOSING DEVICE There are several important factors influencing the productivity of machines used in the food and beverage industry.
Of the utmost importance is cleanliness, not only from microbes but also from external pollutants from machine degradation.
For machines which operate 24 7 with production rates of several thousands of bottles per minute, equipment must perform faultlessly and 3 be able to withstand aggressive wear and cleaning chemicals Bodycotes Specialty Stainless Steel Processes S P provide the ultimate protection.
The device begins its journey as steel billet.
Quality and purity of the steel is critical it must be free from inclusions to generate a defect-free surface.
The device is machined to tight tolerances for shape and surface perfection to ensure no leaks in the equipment.
The device is vacuum annealed to eliminate machining stresses and to impart corrosion resistant properties.
The part is polished to a mirror finish to eliminate any remaining surface defects.
3 Bodycotes S P processing is applied to ensure the material can withstand the harsh conditions of high speed production, wear from food and drink, and attack from cleaning chemicals.
End application food and beverage production.
16 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 16 14 03 2019 15:55:08 Specialist Technologies: Surface Technology Specialised coatings are used to prolong the working life of components and protect them from environmental factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
The range of coatings available includes thermally sprayed ceramic and metallic coatings and chemically formed ceramics.
These covers a wide variety of applications, primarily in the aerospace, defence and energy markets.
Controlling the Flow GATE VALVE Gate valves and seats are used in the oil & gas industry to control the flow of oil-containing fluid extracted from the reserve.
Within the well, pressures may be in excess of 15,000psi or 6.5 tonnes per square inch combined with high temperature.
Such an extreme environment requires high performing components and reliable surface coating treatment.
Bodycote applies a tungsten carbide coating to the valve and seat to provide a metal-to-metal seal that is highly wear and corrosion resistant.
The valve component is machined from high grade stainless steel or nickel based alloy.
The coated surface is ground to specification to prepare it for polishing.
The valve component is coated with gas tight tungsten carbide to provide a wear and corrosion resistant surface.
The part is super polished to provide a metal-to-metal sealing surface capable of withstanding pressures in excess of 20,000psi.
The part is assembled into the operating control valve and leak checked.
End application subsea assembly or land-based rig.
indd 17 14 03 2019 22:10:52 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Specialist Technologies: Low Pressure Carburising LPC LPC is a case hardening process carried out in a vacuum furnace using hydrocarbon gases at very low pressure and elevated temperatures to obtain a hardened surface layer and a tough core.
This clean treatment is used to increase the wear resistance and fatigue life of components.
In Gear PINION GEAR A pinion gear is a critical automotive component used in virtually all transmission units.
During use, a vehicle places heavy demand on its transmission, requiring a fast and reliable response to the drive controls.
The gears require high strength and wear resistance in order to withstand the stresses applied to each gear during use.
Bodycotes heat treatment processes, in particular Low Pressure Carburising LPC, enable modern transmissions to deliver high performance and seamless response, even reducing noise during gear changes.
The gears begin life as low alloy steel.
The gears are quenched using Nitrogen gas to minimise part distortion, then tempered to relieve internal stresses.
The gears are dimensionally measured before heat treatment to monitor and maintain repeatability of distortion.
The gears are then heat treated using LPC to enhance functionality by adding a case depth to provide strength and resistance The gears are shot peened to add residual to wear and tear.
stress this allows the parts to withstand more wear and tear.
The gears are measured again after heat treatment to check any distortion is within limits.
The gears are assembled into the transmission unit.
18 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 18 14 03 2019 15:55:20 Specialist Technologies: CiD CiD is a proprietary Bodycote thermochemical heat treatment for simultaneous improvement of corrosion resistance and wear properties through generating an iron nitride-oxide compound layer on steel.
CiD is favoured for components that are subjected to a corrosive environment in combination with wear.
Stress Ball BALL STUDS Used in virtually every automobile made, ball studs are located within the ball joints in a vehicles steering system, between the wheels and suspension, allowing rotating movement similar to the way a human hip joint works.
Because of their function and position within the vehicle, they must be extremely strong, corrosion resistant and able to cope with weight and stress.
Their effective operation is critical to the safety of the vehicle and, therefore, the driver.
Bodycotes proprietary CiD process ensures the parts achieve the necessary material properties.
The ball studs are cold The parts are quenched and forged from heat tempered to obtain the treatable steel.
The ball studs receive Bodycotes proprietary CiD process to improve their corrosion resistance and hardness.
The part surface is machined and roller burnished.
The parts are polished to achieve specified roughness values essential for the function of the joint and the steering behaviour of the vehicle.
The parts are inspected and tested for roughness, surface and core hardness, and corrosion resistance.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 19 14 03 2019 15:55:24 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
