Our business model Our business model is built around our priorities: being the supplier of choice and delivering operational excellence to our customers.
By continuing to meet our customers needs and investing in our global network, we are well placed to create value in the long term.
Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Virtually every type of metal component, Classical Heat T reatment Specialist T echnologies whatever its application, has received some Working to very exacting quality Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer to form of processing before its introduction to specifications, heat treatment uses precisely a group of processes which require very service to enable it to perform to the required controlled furnaces to process a huge variety specialist expertise and technology.
These of metals and alloys, improving their material standard and last longer.
technologies, some of which are proprietary, properties.
offer unique solutions for a variety of applications.
Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature heat treatment processes and include metal joining technologies which are used to join and assemble parts.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of more than The global Bodycote network provides unique improvement of our quality of service and 180 market-focused facilities see pages 6 opportunities for the transfer of knowledge takes an active role in finding solutions and 7 in 23 countries brings economies of and skills, and the transfer of technology.
to technical issues and promoting mutual scale, particularly for logistics and equipment With some of the best metallurgists, business development with our customers.
This makes Bodycotes processing engineers and technicians in the industry, inherently more efficient than customers Bodycote seeks to secure service-specific Bodycote is ideally placed to provide solutions in-house operations see page 36 and arrangements with our customers which for customers, whatever their market or competitors, thereby enhancing our competitive provide protection from supply disruption by wherever in the world they may be.
position in the subcontract market.
leveraging Bodycote's unique facility network.
Bodycotes scale enables continuous yet The capital intensive nature of Bodycotes focused investment, both in the latest business also provides significant barriers processes and in the most efficient and to entry.
The scope of Bodycotes network environmentally friendly equipment.
enables us to specialise more effectively than competitors at individual locations and provides comprehensive backup for our customers.
The supplier of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the supplier of choice Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise for many of the worlds most respected and validated by major engineering OEMs, have mean that projects can extend beyond innovative engineering companies by providing been developed to meet the requirements of customers in-house capabilities, combining highly efficient, cost-effective services to the international and national accrediting bodies.
identification and provision of technical solutions highest quality standards through strategic All Bodycote facilities hold industry and customer which address in-service specification and investment in people and the latest technology, approvals appropriate to the services they offer deliver value-adding material properties.
and the markets they serve.
Our own enhancements and improvement of standard processes have led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services Mutually beneficial customer relationships Financially stable and sustainable business Global supplier which can meet multiple Wide customer base means Bodycote is not Good growth drivers processing needs reliant on any one customer Superior return on investment Access to entire Bodycote knowledge base Ideally positioned to promote growth in Strong margins and cash flow and expertise emerging markets and selected technologies Cost and environmental benefits versus inClearly focused strategy house operations 09 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 9 14 03 2019 15:54:58 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
