Our technologies Classical Heat T reatment It provides wear resistance, strength or Classical Heat toughness depending on the application.
Treatment is the Surface hardness can be controlled by diffusing elements such as carbon and controlled heating nitrogen into the metal during the heating and cooling process stages of the process.
Classical Heat of metals in order to Treatment is an indispensable set of processes within the manufacturing chain obtain the desired of most of the products used in life.
A seat mechanical, chemical belt buckle for example, hardens after heat treatment so that it keeps the passenger and metallurgical safe during an accident.
A screwdriver lasts properties during the longer without wear or a screw fastens manufacturing of a components together without fail only after heat treatment.
Classical Heat Treatment is carried out in precisely controlled industrial furnaces which can heat up to temperatures above 1000C and use quenchants like oil, water or Nitrogen gas to cool the heated material.
During the process the microstructure of the metal transforms into a different structure which results in hardening or softening of the material depending on the process.
Engineers can design thinner, lighter but stronger components with the help of Classical Heat Treatment.
Specialist T echnologies A selection of highly differentiated, early stage processes with high margins, large market opportunity and good growth prospects.
Bodycote is either the clear market leader or one of the top players among few competitors Hot Isostatic Pressing Surface T echnology HIP Services Enhances component life using Improves component integrity and ceramic and metal coatings strength by application of extreme Low Pressure Carburising pressure & heat LPC HIP PF inc. Powdermet Provides a hardened surface and Additive manufacturing of tough core in a clean process often complex components in under vacuum conjunction with HIP CiD Specialty Stainless Steel Improves corrosion resistance & 3 S P wear properties without use Improves the strength, hardness of chrome and wear resistance of stainless steels 05 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 5 14 03 2019 15:54:55 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
