Chairs statement I continue to be impressed with the commitment, passion and knowledge of Bodycote employees at all levels from across the Group A. C. Quinn CBE Chair As Chair, I have a responsibility to promote effective governance Overview across the Group to ensure we remain a successful and Bodycote delivered a good performance in 2018, with sustainable entity with good governance procedures across all 23 management continuing to implement the Groups Strategy.
We are committed to conducting business very pleased to note how well the management team continues responsibly.
By maintaining these high standards of corporate to drive the business forward, delivering on our commitments and governance we are able to enhance business performance investing to support future growth opportunities for our business.
underpinned by our business model.
The approach to Governance Dividend is set by the Board and implemented by our Executive Committee.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.3p, an increase of Effective and robust governance remains a strong pillar supporting 10%, which will be paid on 7 June 2019, subject to shareholder the sustainable success of the Group.
approval at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM.
This brings People the total ordinary dividend for 2018 to 19.0p 2017: 17.4p costing During the year, I have continued to visit many of our facilities 36.1m which represents a year on year increase of 9.1%.
This around the world and engaged with many of our executives and increase in the level of dividend underscores the Boards view of management.
I continue to be impressed with the commitment, the Groups excellent future earnings and cash flow potential.
passion and knowledge of Bodycote employees at all levels from Furthermore, in keeping with our current policy of sweeping cash across the Group and appreciate that our talented workforce is remaining at year end for which we see no immediate use the key to Bodycote maintaining its market position and the long term Board is recommending a supplemental distribution by way of a success of the business.
special dividend, also payable on 7 June 2019 of 20.0p per share, Shareholders costing 38.3m.
Meetings with shareholders have taken place throughout the year Board and governance with very positive feedback and I look forward to seeing more of The Board is mindful of the 2018 corporate governance code and you during the coming year and at this years AGM in May 2019. changes in legislation introduced during the year that are intended Summary to encourage responsible corporate behaviour.
Bearing this in Our strategy is designed to generate superior margins and returns mind, we have incorporated information on our stakeholders and through strong service delivery and operational efficiency.
We aim stakeholder engagement in this Annual Report.
to drive revenue growth through investments to support markets One of the key roles of Chair is to ensure that the Board members with structural growth e. g. civil aviation, growth in our Specialist possess a range of complementary skills which are relevant to Technologies business, and targeted investment in rapid-growth Bodycotes business.
After completing my first year as Chair Emerging Markets.
The results in 2018 demonstrate continued and spending considerable time with my Board colleagues I am progress in each of these areas.
confident that we have a well-balanced Board that, in terms of The Company remains well positioned to deliver attractive returns governance, is functioning effectively.
During the year, the Board also underwent an external board evaluation, which is conducted every three years.
I am pleased to report that the results of the review were very positive.
A. C. Quinn CBE And as always, there were a number of observations and Chair recommendations that we have carefully evaluated to ensure 8 March 2019 that the Board is as effective as possible in exercising its various responsibilities.
