Directors report The directors have pleasure Research and development in submitting their annual Annual General Meeting We continue to undertake research and report for the year ended development to improve the processes, Notice of the 2019 Annual General 31 December 2018. materials and products used in the Meeting to be held on Wednesday, construction of our developments and to 22 May 2019 is set out on pages Other disclosures made in the enhance the energy efficiency of our range 154 to 159.
Members wishing to of homes.
vote should return forms of proxy to Annual Report the Companys Registrar not less than The Company is required to disclose certain Disclosure of information 48 hours, excluding non-working information in its directors report which days, before the time for holding under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R the directors have chosen to disclose the meeting.
There is no further information to be elsewhere in the Annual Report and is disclosed in accordance with Listing incorporated by reference.
Details of The directors believe that all the Rule 9.8.
where this information can be found are resolutions to be considered at the set out below: Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its Subject Pages shareholders as a whole.
The directors Likely future developments in the business 12 to 16 unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the Important events since the year end 150 resolutions, as the directors intend to Going concern statement 30 do in respect of their own shares in Directors interests 91 the Company.
Employee involvement employment of disabled persons 40 to 43 Greenhouse gas emissions 50 Directors Details of the directors and their Corporate governance report 64 to 79 biographies are shown on pages 62 to 63.
Directors remuneration 82 to 101 Alastair Lyons retired from the Board Subsidiaries and associated undertakings 144 to 145 on 23 May 2018 after nine years as a non-executive director.
Katherine Innes Ker was appointed as an Dividends A final dividend of independent non-executive director on An interim dividend of 19.0p 9 October 2018.
2017: 15.0p per share and a special dividend of 45.0p 2017: nil per share In accordance with the UK Corporate 38.0p was paid on 23 November 2018.
Governance Code, all the directors will The Board proposes to pay, subject to retire at the 2019 Annual General Meeting 2017: 32.5p shareholder approval at the 2019 Annual and, being eligible, offer themselves for is proposed General Meeting, a final dividend of 38.0p re-appointment.
2017: 32.5p per share in respect of the Details of directors pay, pension rights, 2018 financial year on 24 May 2019 to service contracts and directors interests in shareholders on the register at the the ordinary shares of the Company are close of business on 29 March 2019. included in the Directors Remuneration On this basis, the total dividend for 2018 Report on pages 82 to 101. will be 102.0p 2017: 47.5p, representing an increase of 115%.
The dividend reinvestment plan gives shareholders the opportunity to reinvest dividends.
Directors names and functions are listed on pages 62 to 63 Notice of the 2019 Annual General Meeting pages 154 to 159 | 108 Our governance Our governance Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak Directors indemnities Articles of Association and vote at general meetings of the During the financial year and as at the date Unless expressly specified to the contrary Company, to appoint one or more proxies of this report, indemnities were in force in the Articles of Association, they may and, if they are corporations, to appoint under which the Company has agreed only be amended by a special resolution corporate representatives.
to indemnify the directors, to the extent of the Companys shareholders at a permitted by law and the Companys general meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting Articles of Association, in respect of all of the Company every shareholder present Share capital losses arising out of, or in connection in person or by proxy and entitled to with, the execution of their powers, duties The Company has a premium listing vote has one vote and on a poll every and responsibilities, as directors of the on the London Stock Exchange.
As at shareholder present in person or by proxy Company or any of its subsidiaries.
28 February 2019, its share capital and entitled to vote has one vote for comprised 134,800,246 fully paid every ordinary share held.
Further details The Companys subsidiary, Bovis Homes Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each.
regarding voting, including the deadlines Limited, has granted a qualifying pension At the Companys 2018 AGM, the for voting, at the Annual General Meeting scheme indemnity to the directors of the directors were authorised to: can be found in the notes to the Notice of Pension Trustee to the extent permitted the Annual General Meeting at the back by law in respect of all losses arising out allot shares in the Company or grant of this Annual Report and Accounts.
of, or in connection with, the execution of rights to subscribe for, or convert, any No shareholder is, unless the Board decides their powers, duties and responsibilities as security into shares up to an aggregate otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either directors of the Pension Trustee.
nominal amount of 22,423,521: personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder allot shares up to an aggregate nominal Powers of the directors rights if he or any person with an interest amount of 44,847,042 for the purpose in shares has been sent a notice under of a rights issue: and Subject to the Companys Articles section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 of Association, UK legislation and make market purchases up to and has failed to supply the Company any directions given by special 13,467,580 shares in the Company with the requisite information within the resolution, the business of the representing approximately 10% of prescribed period.
Company is managed by the Board, the Companys issued share capital at which may exercise all the powers Shareholders may receive a dividend and the time.
The directors on a liquidation may share in the assets of have been authorised to allot and Shareholders will be asked to renew similar the Company.
None of the ordinary shares issue ordinary shares and to make authorities at the 2019 AGM.
of the Company, including those held by market purchases of the Companys the Companys share schemes, carry any During the year the Company allotted ordinary shares and these powers special rights with regard to control of 135,745 shares in connection with the may be exercised under authority of the Company.
exercise of options under the Companys resolutions of the Company passed employee share plans.
The Employee Employees participating in the Bovis Homes at its Annual General Meeting.
Benefit Trust did not purchase any shares Group Share Incentive Plan may direct the The rules in relation to the during the year.
trustee to exercise voting rights on their appointment and replacement behalf at any general meeting but are not of directors are set out in the The Company has not held any shares in required to do so.
treasury during the period under review.
The instrument of transfer of a certificated All issued shares are fully paid and free share may be in any usual form or in any from any restrictions on their transfer, other form which the Board may approve.
except where required by law, such as insider trading rules.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 109 Directors report The Board may refuse to register any Transfers of uncertificated shares must An interim dividend of instrument of transfer of a certificated be carried out using the relevant system share which is not fully paid, provided and the Board can refuse to register a that the refusal does not prevent dealings transfer of an uncertificated share in in shares in the Company from taking accordance with the regulations governing 19.0p place on an open and proper basis.
the operation of the relevant system and 2017: 15.0p Certain employees and officers of the with UK legislation.
There are no other per share was paid on Company must conform to the Companys limitations on the holding of ordinary 23 November 2018 together share dealing rules: these restrict the ability shares in the Company and the Company to deal in the Companys shares at certain is not aware of any agreements between with a special dividend of times and require permission to deal.
holders of securities that may result in The Board may also refuse to register a restrictions on the transfer of securities or transfer of a certificated share unless the on voting rights.
45.0p instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates Directors Remuneration and such other evidence as the Board may Report pages 82 to 101 reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in Notice of the 2019 respect of only one class of shares: and Annual General Meeting iii is in favour of not more than pages 154 to 159 four transferees.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2018, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc. - 7.45 0.51 10,726,928 7.96 Schroders plc - 4.96 - 6,680,423 4.96 Prudential plc group of companies - 4.73 0.20 6,644,963 4.93 Standard Life Aberdeen plc group of companies - 4.87 - 6,562,807 4.87 Woodford Investment Management Ltd 4.74 - - 6,389,100 4.74 Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.14 - - 5,567,004 4.14 Norges Bank 3.05 - 0.17 4,335,572 3.22 Between 1 January and 28 February 2019, the Company did not receive any notifications under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.
| 110 Our governance Our governance Following an audit tender process with reasonable accuracy at any time the conducted at the end of 2014, financial position of the Company and Takeover directive  LLP were the Group and enable them to ensure On a change of control, provisions appointed as auditor at the 2015 AGM.
that the financial statements and the in the Groups syndicated banking In accordance with the provisions of Directors Remuneration Report comply facility agreements described in note the Companies Act 2006, resolutions with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 4.3 to the accounts would allow concerning the re-appointment of regards the Group financial statements, lenders to withdraw the facility.
 LLP and their Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are All of the Groups share schemes remuneration will be placed before the also responsible for safeguarding the contain provisions relating to a 2019 Annual General Meeting.
assets of the Company and the Group change of control.
Under these and hence for taking reasonable steps for provisions, a change of control would Statement of directors the prevention and detection of fraud and be a vesting event, allowing exercise other irregularities.
responsibilities of outstanding options and awards, The directors are responsible for preparing The directors are responsible for the subject to satisfaction of performance the Annual Report, the Directors maintenance and integrity of the conditions, as required.
Remuneration Report and the financial Companys website.
Legislation in the statements in accordance with applicable There are a number of commercial United Kingdom governing the preparation law and regulations.
contracts that could alter in the and dissemination of financial statements event of a change of control.
None is may differ from legislation in other Company law requires the directors considered to be material in terms of jurisdictions.
to prepare financial statements for their potential impact on the Group each financial year.
Under that law the The directors consider that the Annual in this event.
directors have prepared the Group and Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Parent company financial statements in is fair, balanced and understandable accordance with International Financial Financial risk management and provides the information necessary Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for shareholders to assess a Companys Details of financial risk management and by the European Union.
Under company performance, business model and strategy.
exposure to credit liquidity risks are law the directors must not approve the included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
financial statements unless they are Each of the directors, whose names and satisfied that they give a true and fair view functions are listed on pages 62 to 63 of Political donations of the state of affairs of the Group and the the Annual Report confirm that, to the No political donations were made during Company and of the profit or loss of the best of their knowledge: the year ended 31 December 2018 Group and the Company for that period.
The Group has a policy of not the Group and Company financial In preparing these financial statements, the making donations to political parties or statements, which have been prepared directors are required to: incurring political expenditure.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the select suitable accounting policies and Auditors assets, liabilities, financial position and then apply them consistently: profit of the Group: and Each person who is a director at the date make judgements and accounting of approval of this report confirms that: the Strategic Report contained in the estimates that are reasonable annual report includes a fair review of so far as the director is aware, there and prudent: the development and performance of is no relevant audit information of state whether applicable IFRSs as the business and the position of the which the Companys auditors are adopted by the European Union have Group, together with a description of unaware: and been followed, subject to any material the principal risks and uncertainties that each director has taken all the steps departures disclosed and explained in it faces.
that he she ought to have taken as a the financial statements: and director to make himself herself aware By Order of the Board prepare the financial statements on of any relevant audit information and to M T D Palmer the going concern basis unless it is establish that the Companys auditors Group Company Secretary inappropriate to presume that the Group are aware of that information.
28 February 2019 and Company will continue in business.
This confirmation is given and should The directors are responsible for keeping be interpreted in accordance with Bovis Homes Group PLC adequate accounting records that are the provisions of Section 418 of the Registered number 306718 sufficient to show and explain the Group Companies Act 2006. and Companys transactions and disclose | Bovis Homes Group PLC 111
