Housing market overview The housing market trends our strategy responds to However, there is always the risk that the Demand continues to Delays caused by detailed mortgage market could become restricted outstrip supply planning challenges by government policy or that economic Despite ongoing market uncertainty Our relationships with government and circumstances lead to rising interest rates.
relating to Brexit there continues to be a public bodies are important in delivering high demand for housing as the industry the necessary volume of detailed planning Responding to government has encountered constraints to expand consents and technical approvals required regulations and standards quickly enough over recent years.
This is to meet the UKs housing shortage.
Whilst the Government continues to due to several issues, including within our Certain planning authorities continue to be strongly support the sector there have planning system and supply chain that under resourced, affecting their capacity been three recent items that have led are touched on later, and has resulted in to manage applications and develop local to some fallout within the industry.
the UK facing a severe housing shortage.
The emphasis on neighbourhood Firstly, the use of leaseholds to sell houses However, this demand for housing means plans and consenting to fewer larger sites has been reviewed and the Government is that the outlook for the industry remains has constrained outlet growth across the considering banning the use of leaseholds positive, with output continuing to increase sector where no National Planning Policy related to the sale of houses.
This is a and prices that have remained stable.
Framework-compliant local plan is in place practice that was not adopted by Bovis and adopted.
Homes and will therefore have no impact.
Constraints on labour resource Good land availability A lack of skills to meet the demand Secondly, the perceived fall in the quality for labour is a challenge for our Short-term land availability remains good of new homes being produced has been industry and we are strongly focused supported by the overall planning regime reviewed by the Government and led to on developing skills, particularly through across the country.
Outline planning the announcement of a new Ombudsman our apprenticeship scheme and our site approvals are outstripping housing output to protect the interests of homebuyers management training.
Where possible we and this is delivering a sustainable supply and hold developers to account.
Given our partner with our supply chain to develop of land into the market.
renewed focus on delivering a great quality strong relationships that allow them to home to our customers we welcome invest in bringing more people into our Implications of Brexit this review and will work with whatever industry.
Brexit vote could have an impact Whilst the full implications of leaving the measures are put in place.
on the labour market over time if there is EU will remain unknown for a long period Finally, the Oliver Letwin review into less access to skilled European workers.
of time there is some uncertainty for our build out rates by the Government was industry.
Restrictions in the availability published in October 2018.
This concluded of EU labour could have significant Supportive government policy that the homogeneity of the types and consequences for the availability of labour The Government continues to be tenures of the homes on offer on sites, which is already a constraint to growth.
supportive of the industry recognising and the limits on the rate at which the There are also regulatory uncertainties the importance of continuing to market will absorb such homogenous around current EU legislation, especially build new homes to meet the current products, are the fundamental drivers of from an environmental perspective and housing shortage.
The Help to Buy the slow rate of build out.
Most of the potential impacts in our supply chain in equity loan scheme has helped recommendations to speed up the rate of terms of logistics and potential changes thousands of buyers purchase a newdevelopment related to potential changes in tarrifs.
build home and it has encouraged to planning policy.
Whilst we support this housebuilders including Bovis Homes to aim the key challenges to deliver this are Low interest rates and good focus on homes under its threshold certainty of demand in specific locations mortgage availability of 600,000. and the availability of labour.
Despite the more recent increase in The Government has now extended interest rates they remain low by the programme for another two years historical standards.
From 2021 it will only be competitive pricing within the industry available to first-time buyers and will mean low mortgage rates that continue include regional price caps on the value to boost the industry.
Most observers of a property you can buy using a expect interest rates to remain low, Help to Buy loan.
We do not expect mortgage availability to remain strong this to have a material impact on our and lenders to provide reasonable period sales rates.
fixed rate deals to their customers.
| | 8 Strategic report Business overview Strategic report | Business overview Housing market Demand continues to outstrip supply - outlook for the industry remains positive | Bovis Homes Group PLC 9 | | 10 Strategic report Business overview Strategic report | Business overview Hampton Meadow, Stadhampton | Bovis Homes Group PLC 11
