Strategic priorities Strategic priorities We have established a clear set of strategic priorities which underpin how we operate across all aspects of our business and will support driving towards our medium term targets | | 20 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Strategic priorities Risks involved Measuring success See page 22 People satisfaction Investment in the People capability and change Unplanned staff turnover development and training Health, safety and environmental Employee engagement of our people to ensure a score Increased regulation committed, motivated and engaged workforce See page 24 Customer satisfaction Delivering our customers Customer service HBF customer satisfaction quality new homes and Increased regulation NHBC reportable items a high level of customer service that meets their expectations throughout their entire journey with Bovis Homes See page 26 Healthy and safe working environment Ensuring the health and Materials and subcontract labour RIDDOR safety of our people and Health, safety and environmental Accident frequency rate minimising the accident Increased regulation frequency rate whilst delivering on time, is unequivocally at the core of our business See page 28 Enhanced shareholder returns Driving enhanced returns for Economic and sales environment Profitability our shareholders through Materials and subcontract labour ROCE increased profitability, return Project delivery TSR on capital employed and People capability and change total shareholder returns Increased regulation | Bovis Homes Group PLC 21 Strategic priorities People satisfaction Investment in the development and training of our people to ensure a committed, motivated and engaged workforce Our approach Progress in 2018 Priorities for 2019 We are pleased to have seen a steady Overall, our focus is to continue to provide People development improvement in our employee engagement our employees a stable and thriving is a priority, and as as measured by our monthly engagement workplace resulting in a reduction in the survey.
rate of unplanned staff turnover across a company we are the Group.
We have further increased our investment investing in more training in our people delivering over 4,505 delegate In Q1 2019 we are launching the self than ever before.
training days in 2018 2017: 3,914. service aspect of our new HR and payroll The Bovis Homes Training Centre is the focal system which will automate some of We have developed a culture of hands point and we are delighted it was a finalist in our processes such as holiday booking on leadership with a greater operational the HBF Housebuilder Awards.
Further modules such as focus, facilitating quicker decision making payroll with online payslips and a Learning A key priority has been the development of and accountability across the business.
Management System LMS will be our leadership teams with the roll out of our We have closely aligned our employee introduced during 2019. internally designed leadership framework incentive packages with the strategic goals programme: Building Leadership Excellence.
We will continue to invest in the training A bespoke 3 tier leadership development and medium term targets of the Group.
and development of our people in 2019 programme, it targets leaders from all levels, with the roll out of the foundation and we delivered the senior and intermediate leadership programme: the final tier of programmes to over 140 employees across Building Leadership Excellence.
We have also trained our managers in recruitment, We will be introducing our functional managing performance, managing development framework in which we absence, and all employees in diversity and will profile all development requirements inclusion.
A major conference involving over to support the knowledge, skills and KPIs 100 women from the business explored behaviours of all roles within the business.
opportunities for women and barriers to This will include the development of women joining the sector.
functional Subject Matter Experts SME to facilitate implementation of business We continue to focus on our talent pipeline Unplanned change initiatives.
through our annual succession planning staff turnover review and during the year had a new intake In conjunction with the introduction of the of trainee assistant site managers enrol in our LMS, we will continue to expand access 18-month programme, and almost doubled to learning and development through the our intake of apprentices.
22% implementation of our eLearning platform and development of our digital portfolio: There has been continued development 2017: 31% moving beyond the classroom to allow of our sales staff with the redesign of the sales development programme to cover all employees to access learning wherever they aspects of the required knowledge, skills and are and when they require it.
behaviours to meet the challenges within Peakon the sector.
engagement score As part of our commitments to the HBFs Home Building Skills Partnership we continue to offer training to our subcontractors with 7.7 the delivery of the Site Supervisor Safety Training Scheme to over 150 people as well 2017: 7.3 as mental health training to raise awareness of the importance of personal well-being throughout the industry.
| | 22 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Investing in our people Putting the focus on training and employee engagement | Bovis Homes Group PLC 23 Strategic priorities Customer satisfaction Delivering quality service and homes for our customers remains a key strategic commitment Our approach Progress in 2018 Priorities for 2019 Customer We are very committed to continuing to 2018 has seen a step deliver quality service and by doing so retain We have put the customer back at the core change in our customer our 4 star customer satisfaction rating.
of everything we do and our approach We are looking forward to the roll-out of has evolved from an initial focus on our satisfaction moving our new CRM platform which will make it customer facing roles and actions to from a 2 star to 4 star easier for our customers to do business reviewing how all roles and decisions with us and for our people to deliver impact upon our customers.
Alongside this new supported by both group and regional software capability, we have taken led programmes.
Customer the opportunity to simplify business Creating a customer centric culture Listening to our customers processes and standardise functionality.
Our industry leading Home Buyers panel During implementation, we will deliver Listening to our customers continues to provide valuable feedback, consistent service skills training across Ensuring we listen, understand and meet ensuring our customers have a voice the Group.
the changing needs of our customers and are able to share their views about important changes at Bovis Homes.
This has People included the launch of our new housing Equipping our people to deliver a high range, updates and enhancements to our quality service consumer website, the type of training and KPIs development our people would best benefit from, as well as helping shape the future customer journey.
Survey feedback is also shared throughout HBF customer the organisation on a daily basis enabling 1 satisfaction people to act and continuously improve, whilst get recognised for the great service they are delivering.
People We continue to invest in our people and 2017: their service skills and in 2018 we joined the Institute of Customer Service.
The institute has been delivering their accredited training programmes to our key customer service NHBC roles, ensuring that benchmarked cross reportable items industry standards for service professionals are reached.
A cross section of our people have been 0.31 working to develop our service of the future and defining the business requirements for our Customer Relationship Management 2017: 0.38 CRM platform to be rolled out in 2019.
We have also introduced Group and 1 Based on HBF star rating announced in March of Regional level awards that recognise the following year relating to the prior period of 1 individuals and their contributions in October to 30 September.
delivering quality service to our customers.
| | 24 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Delivering for our customers Listening and engaging to improve quality and service || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 25 25 Strategic priorities Healthy and safe working environment Ensuring the health and safety of our people and minimising the accident frequency rate whilst delivering on time, remains at the core of our business Our approach Progress in 2018 Priorities for 2019 Getting our teams involved in bottom We are continually looking to improve our The Group is committed to up safety management.
systems and processes, and in 2019 will delivering a high standard see the introduction of a biometric system In 2018 we have been rolling-out our for our construction sites fingerprint of health and safety Standard Operating Procedures with recognition.
This will be designed to cater valuable input from our employees and for all our employees, for online inductions and the reading subcontractors and this will continue to and importing of CSCS SmartCard and subcontractors and other mid-year 2019. photographic information, including the on-site visitors.
Key to success is stakeholder engagement upload of important data.
All of this will and our bottom up approach is designed free up valuable time for site managers.
During the year we appointed a new to get our specialist contractors involved Group Health, Safety and Environmental We are producing an off-site induction right from the start, working with site Director whose focus is to further improve video for workers and visitors accessible management to get the best results.
all of our health, safety and environmental through a mobile app and which will In line with the companys IT strategy systems.
This includes an initial review communicate with the biometric system.
we are digitising our system wherever of our fundamental principles and the As part of our continuous improvement possible, creating a one-stop shop health development and implementation of a we will also be investing in our online and safety platform.
reporting system and shifting our focus to using leading indicators to drive continuous improvement such as number of site inspections, audits and closeout of actions.
Tracking these leading indicators will help us measure our safety success and put in place process changes to proactively reduce accidents and incidents.
Total recordable injury RIDDOR frequency rate TRIFR KPIs 21 1.14 2017: 22 2017: 1.17 As part of our bottom-up safety management strategy and to better align to industry standards leaders, we have adjusted the way we report in 2018 by focusing on lagging indicators such as RIDDORs and recordable incidents.
These indicators will tell us how we have performed in the past to help build upon our existing foundations.
| | 26 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Keeping our sites safe Committed to protecting the public and our people | Bovis Homes Group PLC 27 Strategic priorities Enhanced shareholder returns Driving enhanced returns for our shareholders through increased profitability, return on capital and total shareholder returns Our approach Progress in 2018 Priorities for 2019 The Group made significant progress The Group is committed to building upon The Group has set out its operationally during 2018 delivering a the significant progress made over the past medium term targets to be step change in the business and financial 18 months.
There are a range of initiatives achieved by 2020 which will performance.
As a result, the Group had a for 2019 which are all designed to build record year of profits with profit before a better Bovis Homes including the first return Bovis Homes Group tax increasing by 47.4% to 168.1m.
completions from our new Phoenix Housing to being a leading UK We made very good progress against all range and the development of our new of our medium term targets to be achieved Partnership Housing division.
The Group housebuilder and deliver by 2020 with several already achieved.
remains focused on price optimisation, significantly improved In particular, we progressed our programme controlled volume growth and margin of balance sheet optimisation initiatives enhancement, whilst maintaining a high returns to shareholders.
and are now aiming to deliver c. 250m build quality and customer service, and The management incentive schemes are additional net cash benefit from these, expects to make further operational and aligned to these medium term targets.
significantly ahead of the initial 180m target.
Reflecting the Groups commitment to increasing the efficiency of the balance sheet through the reduction of capital employed in the business, the Board intends that the surplus capital will be returned to shareholders.
Profit before tax Return on capital Total shareholder employed return pre exceptional 168.1m KPIs 14.4% 2017: 114.0m 19.3% 2017: 57% 2017: 13.7% For calculation of ROCE, see table on page 150 | | 28 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Focus on better returns Driving improvements for our shareholders | Bovis Homes Group PLC 29
