Corporate governance The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the BP group.
Executive team Its members include BPs executive directors Bob Dudley and Brian Gilvary whose biographies appear on pages 58-62 and the senior management listed on these As at 29 March 2019 pages.
Susan Dio Tufan Erginbilgic David Eyton Bob Fryar Andy Hopwood Bernard Looney Lamar McKay Eric Nitcher Dev Sanyal Helmut Schuster Dame Angela Strank Outside BP, Susan is a member of the American Petroleum Institute Board and Susan Dio David Eyton Executive Committee, the Greater Houston Chairman and president of BP America Group head of technology Partnership Executive Committee, and the Executive team tenure Fords Theatre Board of Trustees Executive Executive team tenure Appointed 1 September 2018 Committee.
Appointed 1 September 2018 Outside interests Outside interests Member of the American Petroleum Institute Fellow of the UK Royal Academy of Tufan Erginbilgic Board and Executive Committee Engineering Chief executive, Downstream Member of the Greater Houston Partnership Fellow of the Institute of Materials, Minerals Executive Committee and Mining Executive team tenure Member of the Fords Theatre Board of Fellow of the Institute of Directors Appointed 1 October 2014 Trustees Executive Committee Trustee of the John Lyons Foundation Outside interests Age 58 Nationality American Age 58 Nationality British Member of the Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce & Industry Board of Directors Career Career Member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Susan Dio is chairman and president of BP As group head of technology, David Eyton is the University of Surrey America, providing leadership and oversight accountable for technology strategy and its Age 59 Nationality British and Turkish to BPs US businesses, which employ around implementation across BP.
These businesses include oil corporate venture capital investments and Career and gas exploration and production, refining, conducting research and development in areas Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed chief petrochemicals, supply and trading, pipeline of corporate renewal.
In this role, David sits executive, Downstream on 1 October 2014. operations, shipping, retail, and alternative on the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative Climate Prior to this, Tufan was the chief operating energy.
officer of the fuels business, accountable for Since joining the company in 1984, she has David joined BP in 1982 from Cambridge BPs fuels value chains worldwide, the global held key operational and executive positions University with an engineering degree.
fuels businesses and the refining, sales and in the US, UK, and Australia.
Before assuming commercial optimization functions for fuels.
her current role, Susan served as chief Tufan joined Mobil in 1990 and BP in 1997 executive officer of BP shipping, where and has held a wide variety of roles in refining she managed the fleet of BP-operated and and marketing in Turkey, various European chartered vessels that move more than 200 countries and the UK.
million tonnes of products across the globe He became head of the European fuels each year.
business in 2004 and took up leadership of She also previously served as head of audit for BPs lubricant business in 2006, before moving BPs downstream segment, as business unit to head the group chief executives office.
In leader of the Bulwer Island refinery, and as 2009 he became chief operating officer for the plant manager of Texas City chemicals.
eastern hemisphere fuels value chains and lubricants businesses.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 63 Most recently, Andy was appointed chief where he led BPs efforts to restructure the Bob Fryar operating officer, upstream strategy in April governance framework for TNK-BP.
Lamar was appointed chairman and president Executive vice president, safety of BP America, serving as BPs chief and operational risk representative in the US.
In January 2013, he Bernard Looney Executive team tenure became chief executive, upstream, Chief executive, Upstream Appointed 1 October 2010 responsible for exploration, development and production, serving in the role until April 2016.
Outside interests Executive team tenure No external appointments Appointed 1 November 2010 Age 55 Nationality American Eric Nitcher Outside interests Group general counsel Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Career Fellow of the Energy Institute Bob Fryar is responsible for strengthening Executive team tenure Age 48 Nationality Irish safety, operational risk management and the Appointed 1 January 2017 systematic management of operations across Outside interests Career the BP group.
He is group head of safety and No external appointments Bernard Looney is responsible for the operational risk, with accountability for Upstream segment which consists of Age 56 Nationality American group-level disciplines including engineering, exploration, development and production.
health, safety, security, remediation Career management and the environment.
In this Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling Eric Nitcher is responsible for legal matters capacity, he looks after the group-wide engineer, working in the North Sea, Vietnam across the BP group.
operating management system and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 he became implementation and capability programmes.
senior vice president for BP Alaska before Eric began his career in the late 1980s working becoming head of the group chief executives as a litigation and regulatory lawyer in Wichita, Bob has over 30 years experience in the office in 2007.
He joined Amoco in 1990 and over the oil and gas industry, having joined Amoco years has held a wide variety of roles, both Production Company in 1985.
Between 2010 In 2009 he became the managing director within and outside the US.
and 2013 Bob was executive vice president of of BPs North Sea business in the UK and the production division, accountable for safe Norway.
At the same time, Bernard became In 2000, Eric moved to London to work in the and compliant exploration and production a member of the Oil & Gas UK Board.
He mergers and acquisitions legal team where operations and stewardship of resources became executive vice president, he played a key role in the formation of the across all regions.
developments in October 2010, and in Russian joint venture TNK-BP.
Eric returned to February 2013 became chief operating officer, Houston in 2007 where he served as special Prior to this, Bob was chief executive of BP production, serving in the role until April 2016. counsel and chief of staff to BP Americas Angola and also held several management chairman and president.
positions in Trinidad, including chief operating Most recently he played a leading role in officer for Atlantic LNG and vice president of Lamar McKay the settlement of the Deepwater Horizon US operations.
Bob has also served in a variety of Deputy group chief executive government claims and resolution of many of engineering and management positions in Executive team tenure the remaining private claims.
onshore US and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Appointed 16 June 2008 Outside interests Dev Sanyal Andy Hopwood No external appointments Executive vice-president, chief operating Chief executive, alternative energy and officer, upstream strategy Age 60 Nationality American executive vice president, regions Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Career Appointed 1 November 2010 Appointed 1 January 2012 Lamar McKay is accountable for group Outside interests strategy and long-term planning, group Outside interests No external appointments economics, safety and operational risk, group Independent non-executive director technology and the legal function.
In addition of Man Group plc Age 61 Nationality British to supporting the group chief executive, he Member of the Accenture Global also focuses on various corporate governance Energy Board Career activities including ethics and compliance.
Member of the Board of Advisors of Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs upstream The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, strategy.
Lamar started his career in 1980 with Amoco Tufts University and held a range of technical and leadership Andy joined BP in 1980, spending his first 10 Member, International Advisory Board of the roles.
years in operations in the North Sea, Wytch Farm Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, and Indonesia.
In 1989 Andy joined the corporate During 1998 to 2000, he worked on the Government of India planning team formulating BPs upstream BP-Amoco merger and served as head of Member of the Advisory Board of the Centre strategy and subsequent portfolio rationalization.
strategy and planning for the exploration and for European Reform Andy held commercial leadership positions in production business.
In 2000 he became Age 53 Nationality British and Indian Mexico and Venezuela before becoming the business unit leader for the central North Sea.
In 2001 he became chief of staff for Career exploration and production, and subsequently Following the BP-Amoco merger, Andy spent Dev Sanyal is responsible for alternative for BPs deputy group chief executive.
Lamar time leading BPs businesses in Azerbaijan, energy globally and for the groups interests in became group vice president, Russia and Trinidad & Tobago and onshore North America.
In the Europe and Asia regions.
He served as a member 2009 he joined the upstream executive team as Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a variety of of the board of directors of TNK-BP between head of portfolio and technology and in 2010 was international roles in London, Athens, Istanbul, February 2004 and May 2007. appointed executive vice president, exploration Vienna and Dubai.
He was general manager, and production.
In 2007 he was appointed executive vice former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, prior president, BP America.
In 2008 he became to being appointed chief executive, BP Eastern executive vice president, special projects 64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Mediterranean in 1999.
In November 2003 he Dame Angela Strank was appointed chief executive, Air BP International and in June 2006 was appointed BP chief scientist and head of head of the group chief executives office.
In technology, downstream 2007, he assumed the role of group vice Executive team tenure president and group treasurer.
During this Appointed 1 September 2018 period he was also chairman of BP investment management and was accountable for the Outside interests groups aluminium interests.
Until April 2016, Non-executive director of Severn Trent plc Dev was executive vice president, strategy and Fellow of the Royal Society regions.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Honorary Fellow of the Energy Institute Honorary Professor of Earth Sciences, Helmut Schuster University of Manchester Executive vice president, group human Age 66 Nationality British resources director Executive team tenure Career Appointed 1 March 2011 Dame Angela Strank is responsible for technology across BPs petrochemicals, Outside interests refining, fuels and lubricants businesses.
As Non-executive director of Ivoclar BPs chief scientist she is accountable for Vivadent AG, Germany developing strategic insights from advances in Age 58 Nationality Austrian and British science and managing technology capability in BP.
Career Helmut Schuster became group human Dame Angela joined BP in 1982 as a geologist resources HR director in March 2011.
In this in exploration and has held various technical role he is accountable for the BP human and commercial leadership roles across resources function.
upstream and downstream including: chief financial officer lubricants Americas, BP He completed his post graduate diploma in Statoil alliance manager Nigeria, business international relations and his PhD in development manager Angola, technology economics at the University of Vienna and vice president, and head of the BP group chief then began his career working for Henkel in a executives office.
Since joining BP in 1989 Helmut has held a number of leadership roles.
In 2010 Dame Angela won the UK First He has worked in BP in the US, UK and Womens Award in Science and Technology, continental Europe and within most parts of and in 2018 was the first woman to receive the refining, marketing, trading and gas and power.
UK Energy Institutes Cadman Award.
Before taking on his current role, his portfolio In 2017 Dame Angela was awarded a Dame of responsibilities as vice president, HR Commander of the Order of the British Empire included the refining and marketing segment in Her Majesty the Queens Birthday Honours of BP and corporate and functions.
That role List for services to the oil industry and women saw him leading the people agenda for roughly in science, technology, engineering and 60,000 people across the globe that included mathematics STEM.
businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels Dame Angela holds honorary degrees from value chains, lubricants and functional experts Royal Holloway University, London DSc and across the group.
Outside of his role, Helmut is a non-executive director of Ivoclar Vivadent.
Additionally, he is an alumni and advocate of AFS, which is an NGO that promotes intercultural learning.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 65
