Innovation in BP Across the business we face the dual challenge of meeting societys need for more energy, while at the same time working to reduce carbon emissions.
Our industry is changing rapidly, and the energy mix is shifting towards lower carbon sources, driven by technological advances and growing environmental concerns.
Technology is ever-present in all that we do from safely discovering and recovering oil and gas, to renewable energy and lower carbon fuels and products.
And digital, big BPme available in data and advanced technologies, as well as an innovative mindset, are driving rapid 6,000 retail sites development of new ways to tackle emissions and improve efficiency at BP.
We also invest in high-tech companies A new way to pay to help accelerate and commercialize new Customers in six countries now have the technologies, products and business models.
option to pay for fuel from their vehicle using BPme.
And since its launch our smartphone app has been downloaded more than one million times.
Using a phones GPS signal BPme locates the nearest BP site and provides details of opening times and facilities.
Customers can use the app to activate their fuel pump and pay from inside their car.
BPme is designed to appeal to people who dont want to leave children, pets or valuables alone while they go to pay for fuel, and it saves 8 major time queuing at the checkout.
Over the coming technology months we plan to roll it out to new markets and introduce the option to order coffee and centres receive offers and discounts from the app.
in the US, UK, Asia and Germany Group highlights $429 million invested in research and development $200 million used to develop options for new lower carbon businesses Collaborations with innovative academic programmes 24 hours to 20 minutes with APEX 4,000 granted and pending patent applications 150 million held by BP and its subsidiaries throughout data points a day with POA the world bp.
com technology 40 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance A clearer view below the earth 01010101010101010101 Below land and sea, in challenging terrains and conditions, BPs developments in seismic 01010101 10101010101 technology are allowing us to see deeper 01010101010101010101 into the earth with better accuracy than ever 01010101010101010101 before.
And the better we can see, the easier and safer it is to find oil and gas and unlock 0101010101010 10 1101 more of it from our existing assets.
01010101010101010101 One of the big challenges for conventional 0101010101 0101010101 seismic sources when surveying offshore in the Gulf of Mexico is the ability to look deep into the earth without the thick horizontal salt layers above distorting the images captured.
Wolfspar To help tackle this we designed and built Wolfspar.
The ultra-low-frequency system 1,000km works with our other advanced recording of data acquired in 143 hours technologies to help overcome the subsalt imaging challenge.
We believe the clearer view will help reduce uncertainty about where the resources are, resulting in more drillable and Schlumberger.
The project aims to move and vehicles needed as well as a simplified targets in the region.
Having completed a beyond the existing limitations of bulky, heavy derigging process which is otherwise very series of successful proof-of-concept tests, BP and expensive onshore seismic equipment, time consuming and challenging.
plans to move to industrialize the technology and at the same time provide better images of The new node is the lightest, smallest and with our strategic seismic partners, so that it the reservoir.
Following successful initial field lowest-cost system in the world, and the can be used across our global subsurface trials in Norway and Abu Dhabi in 2017, the project is on course to help change how portfolio.
nimble node system was used to safely future seismic is acquired.
Its development acquire 3D seismic data in the challenging We also reached a major milestone in the will be completed with a large-scale field trial climate of West Siberia in 2018.
Early images development of an innovative land seismic in early 2019.
Soon after this we plan to begin show better data quality compared to recording system, in partnership with Rosneft the first commercial survey.
conventional equipment, with fewer people Robot inspections And following our successful pilot in the Intelligent operations Inspection robots are helping us deliver against Atlantis field, we are now using Plant our strategic priority of modernizing and Operations Advisor POA, which was transforming BP.
At our Cherry Point refinery developed in partnership with BHGE, on New technologies are helping us build in the US weve adapted a robotic solution all four BP-operated platforms in the US intelligent operations throughout our business.
that allows us to inspect equipment such Gulf of Mexico.
The robot uses Across all our upstream-operated assets, we ultrasound technology to spot microscopic The cloud-based tool gives performance are creating virtual copies of our production cracks in its walls by crawling along the reactor.
information on around 1,200 important systems using APEX our highly sophisticated This process would have previously taken pieces of process equipment with more simulation, surveillance and optimization more than 23 work hours, with engineers than 150 million data points analysed every toolkit.
The technology recreates every working inside the hydrocracker unit during a day.
If the system identifies an issue with element of a well network in digital twin planned shutdown.
Now they can gather the any of the equipment, it sends an alert to form, and works in near real time to gather same information in just one hour with robots.
our engineers so they can respond quickly.
data about every well across our business.
By pinpointing anomalies in operations It can pinpoint where efficiency can be and identifying the causes, problems that improved and helps our production engineers might once have taken hours for engineers run simulations in seconds.
With APEX, a to work through manually can be diagnosed full-field optimization that used to take hours in minutes.
Following its success in the Gulf now takes a few minutes.
Engineers from of Mexico, we now plan to use the tool at around the world are proactively sharing their more than 30 upstream locations worldwide know-how and expertise across our global 23 hours to by the end of 2019. operations, as they embed the use of APEX and start benefiting from it.
1 hour BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 41 Venturing and low carbon across multiple fronts 6,500 UK charging points with BP Chargemaster in 2018 12 million electric vehicles projected on UK roads by 2040 in the BP Energy Outlook.
Harnessing battery power We also invested $20 million in StoreDot, As we support the transition to a company that develops ultra-fast charging a lower carbon future and to help battery technology for mobile and industrial meet our customers changing markets.
We anticipate the technology will Storing wind energy needs, were making investments be used in mobile devices by 2020 and BP Weve partnered with Tesla to test in electric vehicle technology and will be working with them to help transfer this how effectively wind energy can be technology to electric vehicles.
Our work aims to stored at our Titan 1 wind energy site to bring recharging times down to five minutes, support electric vehicle adoption in South Dakota.
The electricity captured making the time it takes to charge an electric is then available for the site to use by tackling issues such as poor vehicle similar to that of filling a tank.
whenever we need it even when battery life and slow charging BP now has more than 6,500 charging points the wind isnt blowing.
in the UK, through BP Chargemaster.
The The pilot will help develop valuable business combines the complementary To allow us to respond rapidly to demand insights for energy storage applications expertise, experience and assets of BP and for charging facilities at our forecourts, we across our diverse portfolio.
Chargemaster and is an important step invested $5 million in FreeWire.
The US-based towards offering widened access to fast and company manufactures mobile rapid charging ultra-fast charging at BP sites across the UK.
systems, which we successfully piloted at a The chargers will start to become available BP retail site in the UK, and are now exploring across our UK forecourts throughout 2019. options to offer FreeWires innovative charging StoreDot aim to reduce services across the retail networks.
electric vehicle recharging time to five minutes.
42 BP BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
