Board activity in 2018 Role of the board The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business.
Directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs Articles of Association.
The primary tasks of the board in 2018 included: A Ac ct tiiv five e c con ons siid fide era rat tiion on a and nd d diir re ec ct tiion on M Mo on niit to or riin ng of B g of BP P s s E En ns su uri rin ng g t tha hat t t th he e pri prin nc ciip pa all ri ris sk ks s a an nd d B Bo oa ar rd a d an nd e d ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e 1 1 of of llo on ng g- -t te er rm s m st tr ra at te eg gy a y an nd a d ap pp pr rov ova all p per erf fo or rm man anc ce e a ag ga aiin ns st t th the e u un nc ce er rt ta aiin nt tiie es t s to B o BP a P ar re i e id fide en nt tiifi fie ed a d an nd t d th ha at t m man ana ag ge em men ent t of t of th he a e an nn nu ua al p l plla an n str stra at te eg gy y an and d p pllan an s sy ys st te em ms of r s of riis sk m k ma an na ag ge em me en nt a t an nd c d co on nt tr ro oll s suc ucc ce ess ssiio on n a ar re e iin p n plla ac ce e Strategy Performance and monitoring It received regular reports on During the year the board The board reviews financial Quarterly and full-year results.
provided input on the groups the progress and implementation and operational performance Shareholder distributions.
of the strategy through updates at each meeting.
It receives The board reviews the quarterly This included a two-day strategy from management and by means regular updates on the groups and full-year results, including session in September where it of a strategic performance performance for the year across the shareholder distribution examined developments in the scorecard which is discussed a range of metrics as well as the policy.
The 2018 annual report wider environment and debated at each board meeting.
latest view on expected full-year strategic themes relating to was assessed in terms of the delivery against external The board monitored the BPs segments, key functions directors obligations and scorecard measures.
Updates companys performance against and the impact of the lower appropriate regulatory are also given on various carbon transition on the groups the annual plan for 2018 and requirements.
components of value delivery for business model.
The board approved the forward framework BPs business.
Regular reports The board monitors employee discussed the transition to a for the annual plan for 2019. presented to the board include: opinion via an annual pulse lower carbon world frequently The board reviewed the BP survey which includes during the year.
Energy Outlook, updated measurement of how the BP The board also held several Group performance report.
in February 2018, which looks values are incorporated into long-term strategy sessions Group financial outlook.
at long-term energy trends and culture around our global covering upstream, downstream projections for world energy Effectiveness of investment operations.
and the future plans for the markets.
integrated supply and trading function that supports them.
Ri sk Succession The board, either directly The board reviewed the group The board, in conjunction with Paul Anderson stood down or through its monitoring risk of cyber security in 2017 the nomination and governance from the board at the 2018 committees, regularly reviews with the audit committee and and chairmans committees, AGM.
the processes whereby risks SEEAC assessing elements of reviews succession plans for Alison Carnwath was elected are identified, evaluated and cyber security risk in their work executive and non-executive as a director at the 2018 AGM.
The directors on a regular basis.
Helge Lund and Pamela allocation of the group cyber The board needs to ensure Activities include: Daley joined the board in security risk to the board with that potential candidates are Assessing the effectiveness of July 2018 as non-executive additional monitoring by the audit identified and evaluated as the groups system of internal director and chairman and SEEA committees remains current directors reach the control and risk management designate, and non-executive unchanged for 2019.
The group end of their recommended as part of the review of the director, respectively.
risks allocated to the committees term of office, including in the BP Annual Report and Form for review over the year are event of a director leaving Carl-Henric Svanberg stepped 20-F 2017. outlined in the reports of the unexpectedly.
down as non-executive Identification and subsequent committees on pages 75-86. director and chairman of the The board employs executive allocation of risks to the board Further information on BPs board effective 31 December search firms when it concludes and monitoring committees system of risk management is 2018, succeeded by Helge that this is an effective way of the audit, SEEA and outlined in How we manage risk Lund with effect from finding suitable candidates.
In geopolitical committees for on page 53.
2018 Egon Zehnder assisted 2018, and confirmation of the BPs system of internal control is in the search for non-executive Alan Boeckmann and schedule for oversight.
Egon Zehnder has no Frank Bowman will stand other connection with the down from the board at company or individual directors.
70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Skills and expertise In order to carry out its duties on behalf of shareholders, the board needs to manage its overall membership and continuously maintain its knowledge and expertise to benefit the business.
It does this through four activity sets: Succession planning to Diversity including skills, Training including Evaluation ensure future diversity experience, gender, ethnicity site visits and induction and balance and tenure of new directors Background and diversity Non-executive director Background Diversity Oil and gas Engineering Financial Safety Brand Regulatory Female Non Tenure extractives technology expertise marketing government UK US years energy reputation affairs 3 Nils Andersen 5 Alan Boeckmann 8 Frank Bowman 1 Alison Carnwath 1 Pamela Daley 9 Ian Davis 6 Ann Dowling 1 Helge Lund 2 Melody Meyer 8 Brendan Nelson 4 Paula Reynolds 4 John Sawers Diversity The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender, at the of, and nothing to give rise to conflicts of interest for, those directors board and all levels of the group.
We are committed to increasing who serve together as directors on the boards of other entities or who diversity across our operations and have a wide range of activities hold other external appointments.
The nomination and governance to support the development and promotion of talented individuals, committee keeps the other interests of the NEDs under review to regardless of gender and social and ethnic background.
ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
The board operates a policy that aims to promote diversity in its Ian Davis is proposed for re-election notwithstanding he will be in his composition.
Under this policy, director appointments are evaluated tenth year as a non-executive director.
Following careful consideration, against the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the the board believes that Ian continues to provide constructive challenge board, with directors asked to be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and and robust scrutiny of matters that come before the board.
Accordingly, meritocracy considerations when examining nominations to the board.
the board is satisfied that Ian continues to demonstrate the qualities of Implementation of this policy is monitored through agreed metrics.
independence in carrying out his role as senior independent director.
During its annual evaluation, the board considered diversity as part of Appointment and time commitment the review of its performance and effectiveness.
The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment.
There is no At the end of 2018, there were five female directors 2017: 3, 2016: 3 term limit on a directors service, as BP proposes all directors for on our board of 14.
Our nomination and governance committee actively annual re-election by shareholders.
considers diversity in seeking potential candidates for appointment to While the chairmans letter of appointment sets out the time the board.
commitment expected of him, those for NEDs do not set a fixed-time The board looked at gender and wider diversity across the group as commitment, but instead set a general guide of between 30-40 days part of its annual review of HR, capability and talent management.
The time required of directors may fluctuate depending on demands of BP business and other events.
They are expected to BP continues to take action to address the broader issue of diversity allocate sufficient time to BP to perform their duties effectively and within the group.
make themselves available for all regular and ad hoc meetings.
The Independence board believes that, notwithstanding the NEDs other appointments, Non-executive directors NEDs are expected to be independent they have sufficient time to fulfil their BP duties.
in character and judgement and free from any business or other Executive directors are permitted to take up one board appointment relationship that could materially interfere with exercising that at an external listed company, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
It is the boards view that all NEDs are independent.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 71 Fees received for an external appointment may be retained by the Board evaluation executive director and are reported in the directors remuneration report BP undertakes an annual review of the board, its committees and see page 87.
Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director individual directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by are employed as an executive of the group.
the chairmans committee and his evaluation is led by the senior independent director.
The evaluation operates on a three-year cycle, Training and induction with one externally led evaluation followed by two subsequent years To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues of internal evaluations carried out using a questionnaire prepared by to build its knowledge through briefings and site visits.
In 2018, the an external facilitator.
board continued to receive training on ethics and compliance.
Activity following prior year evaluation NEDs are expected to visit at least one business a year as part of their Actions arising from the 2017 evaluation and how these were learning programme.
In 2018, the board as a whole visited operations addressed included: at the Khazzan gas field in Oman.
Members of the SEEAC and other Ongoing focus on capital allocation: the board continued to develop directors also visited the Cooper River petrochemicals plant in the US and deepen its understanding of the capital allocation process and and the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
the way in which investment decisions were taken.
Newly appointed NEDs follow a structured induction process.
In 2018, Longer term vision and strategy: the board held three deep dive Helge Lund, Alison Carnwath and Pamela Daley all participated in the discussions to explore the groups longer-term vision and strategy, induction programme, which includes one-to-one meetings with including challenges in BPs core businesses as well as the transition management and the external auditors and other management who to a lower carbon economy.
support the board and committees.
Pamela Daleys induction is set out Employee views on safety and culture: the board developed a greater below as an example.
understanding of employee views within the group, particularly through review of more detailed data from the annual Pulse Survey, by using the Technology Advisory Council TAC reports and through site visits, town halls and employee engagement forums.
International advisory board: the board reviewed the relationship Director induction programme between the board, the geopolitical committee and the international advisory board IAB.
Directors were invited to IAB dinners to hear the debate on broader issues.
I deeply appreciate the 2018 evaluation quality of the BP induction The evaluation was undertaken through a questionnaire facilitated by an external consultant Independent Audit and individual interviews programme and the BP between the consultant and the chairman and each director and other teams dedication to executives.
The results of the evaluation and feedback from the educating me.
interviews were collectively discussed by the board and will be incorporated into a revised version of the board governance principles that will be published later this year.
Pamela Daley Non-executive director Pamela Daley, appointed in 2018, followed a tailored induction process.
The programme of topics included: Board and governance Functional input BPs board governance Communications and model, directors duties, corporate reporting interests and potential Ethics and compliance conflicts.
External audit Finance Business introduction Human resources, including Alternative energy capability and reward BPs business Legal, including litigation BPs performance relative Safety to competitors Treasury Downstream refining, Tax marketing and lubricants Integrated supply and Audit committee specific trading IST Reporting and disclosure Lower carbon transition Business deep dives Strategy including IST risks and Financial planning compliance and procurement Upstream exploration, Cyber security and trading development, production, regulations.
overview of our operations 72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Site visits NEDs visit at least one business every year to help deepen their operational understanding.
In 2018, the board visited the Khazzan gas field in Oman and the International Centre for Advanced Materials ICAM, of which BP is a significant sponsor, at the University of Manchester.
Members of the SEEAC and other directors visited upstream and downstream operations in the Gulf of Mexico and South Carolina respectively.
The board met local management and were briefed at each visit and subsequently provided their feedback to the appropriate committee and to the board.
A number of non-executives took the opportunity to engage directly with the local workforce as described below.
Cooper River, US In September members of the SEEAC and other directors visited Cooper River, BPs petrochemicals plant in South Carolina.
Board members met with site leaders and discussed business emergency continuity planning, safety, risk and operating culture at the plant.
They also heard about new  technologies.
offices and accommodation, and spent time Khazzan, Oman Workforce engagement in the central processing facility control room.
The board visited the Khazzan gas field in Melody Meyer visited the Muscat office in They met site staff over lunch and concluded Oman, touring the facility and meeting with March to meet with women from BP Oman, their visit by meeting a local tribal leader who local staff.
They experienced the scale of the as part of an empowering women in business had been instrumental in securing community field first hand following start-up of the project.
She advocated helping and supporting support for the Khazzan development.
They also visited the new residential camp women saying, we all have a part to play in this, we can help ensure our female colleagues voices are heard.
Melody Manchester, UK highlighted the need to focus on driving value, In May the board attended the ICAM, where creating advantage from change, showing they met with leading academics to better respect and valuing contribution.
understand how investment in research is Melody also conducted a town hall at our helping advance fundamental understanding Houston office in July and Paula Reynolds led and use of materials across a variety of energy a BP womans international network event at and industrial applications.
BPs London head office in December.
Houston, US Alongside the SEEAC visit in July, members of the board also spent time in the Houston Thunder Horse, US office, following the damage caused by SEEAC and the audit committee chair visited Hurricane Harvey in 2017.
They spent time Thunder Horse in July.
Their trip included a with BPs US-based integrated supply and half-day session with the Gulf of Mexico trading team and learned about the execution upstream leadership team followed by a day of business continuity planning following offshore.
The regional president led the site Harvey.
They visited key group monitoring, visit and facilitated thorough discussion of communication and response centres across working practices, the risks and challenges multiple businesses.
faced on site and management of those risks.
The visit demonstrated the safety culture on board the rig.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 73
