See BPs board governance principles relating Board of directors to director independence on page 300.
As at 29 March 2019 Helge Lund Bob Dudley Brian Gilvary Nils Andersen Alan Boeckmann Admiral Frank Dame Alison Pamela Daley Ian Davis Professor Dame Bowman Carnwath Ann Dowling Melody Meyer Brendan Nelson Paula Rosput Sir John Sawers Jens Bertelsen Reynolds Prior to Statoil, he was president and chief He has a degree in business economics from Helge Lund executive officer of Aker Kvaerner, an industrial the Norwegian School of Economics and Chairman conglomerate with operations in oil and gas, Business Administration in Bergen and a engineering and construction, pulp and paper Master of Business Administration from Tenure and shipbuilding.
He has also held executive INSEAD business school in France.
Appointed 26 July 2018 positions in Aker RGI, a Norwegian industrial Relevant skills and experience holding company, and Hafslund Nycomed, an Board and committee activities Helge Lund was appointed chair of the BP industrial group with business activities in board following a detailed process involving all Chair of the chairmans committee and pharmaceuticals and energy.
Helge has an nomination and governance committee, He has worked as a consultant with McKinsey impressive track record of leadership in the oil regularly attends the safety, ethics and & Company and has served as a political and gas industry.
His open-minded and environment assurance, audit, remuneration adviser for the parliamentary group of the forward-looking approach will be vital as the and geopolitical committees Conservative party in Norway.
industry focuses on the transition to a lower Outside interests carbon world.
He has deep industry Helge is chairman of the board of Novo Nordisk Chairman of Novo Nordisk AS knowledge and global business experience AS, a global healthcare company.
Prior to Operating Advisor to Clayton Dubilier & Rice not only in the oil and gas industry but also in joining BP, he was a non-executive director of Member of the Board of Trustees of the pharmaceuticals, healthcare and construction.
the oil service group Schlumberger from 2016 International Crisis Group to 2018, and Nokia from 2011 to 2014.
Age 56 Nationality Norwegian He is an operating adviser to Clayton Dubilier & Rice, a US investment firm.
He is a member of Career the Board of Trustees of the International Crisis Helge Lund became a board director on Group and served as a member on the United 26 July 2018 and chairman of the BP board Nations Secretary-Generals Advisory Group on 1 January 2019. on Sustainable Energy from 2011 to 2014.
Helge served as chief executive of BG Group from 2015 to 2016, when the company merged with Shell.
He joined BG Group from Statoil where he served as president and chief executive officer for 10 years from 2004.
58 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance transition to a lower carbon economy.
Under the Gulf of Mexico, and leading the 2015 Bob Dudley his leadership, BP successfully acquired the settlement negotiations with the US lower 48 assets of BHP in 2018 and delivered government and states to resolve the Group chief executive six major projects as planned.
outstanding federal and state claims.
Brian also Tenure played a lead role in the negotiations around Bob Dudleys performance has been Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 the exit of TNK-BP and investment into considered and evaluated by the chairmans Outside interests Rosneft and led the recent acquisition of the committee.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering BHP onshore Lower 48 assets.
Brian has also Non-executive director of Rosneft been at the centre of the groups work on Brian Gilvary Member of the Tsinghua Management addressing cyber security risk.
University Advisory Board, Beijing, China Chief financial officer Brian Gilvarys performance has been Member of the BritishAmerican Business evaluated by the group chief executive and Tenure International Advisory Board considered by the chairmans committee.
Appointed to the board 1 January 2012 Member of the US Business Council Member of the US Business Roundtable Outside interests Nils Andersen Member of the UAE UK CEO Forum Non-executive director of Air Liquide Independent non-executive director Member of the Emirates Foundation Non-executive director of Royal Navy Board Board of Trustees Non-executive director of The Francis Crick Tenure Member of the World Economic Forum Institute Appointed 31 October 2016 WEF International Business Council Chairman of The 100 Group Chair of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Member of Trilateral Commission Board and committee activities OGCI Honorary professor at Manchester University Member of the safety, ethics and environment Great Britain Age Group Triathlete assurance, geopolitical and chairmans Age 63 Nationality American and British committees Age 57 Nationality British Career Outside interests Bob Dudley became group chief executive on Career Non-executive director of Unilever Plc and 1 October 2010.
Brian Gilvary was appointed chief financial Unilever NV officer on 1 January 2012.
The role includes Chairman of Salling Group A S Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, responsibility for finance, tax, treasury, Chairman of Frch Plast A S working in a variety of engineering and mergers and acquisitions, investor relations, Chairman of Akzo Nobel N. V. commercial posts.
Between 1994 and 1997 he audit, global business services, information Chairman of WWF Denmark worked on corporate development in Russia.
He also has In 1997 he became general manager for Age 60 Nationality Danish accountability for both integrated supply and strategy for Amoco and in 1999, following the trading, and the shipping division responsible merger between BP and Amoco, was Career for BPs tanker fleet.
appointed to a similar role in BP.
Nils Andersen was group chief executive of Brian joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a PhD A. P. Mller-Mrsk from 2007 to June 2016.
Between 1999 and 2000 he was executive in mathematics from the University of Prior to this he was executive vice president of assistant to the group chief executive, Manchester.
Following a broad range of roles Carlsberg A S and Carlsberg Breweries A S subsequently becoming group vice president in upstream, downstream and trading in from 1999 to 2001, becoming president and for BPs renewables and alternative energy Europe and the US, he became downstreams chief executive officer from 2001 to 2007. activities.
In 2002 he became group vice commercial director from 2002 to 2005.
From Previous roles include non-executive director president responsible for BPs upstream 2005 until 2009 he was chief executive of the of Inditex S. A. and William Demant A S. He businesses in Russia, the Caspian region, integrated supply and trading function, BPs has also served as managing director of Union Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
In 2010 he was Cervecera, Hannen Brauerei and chief From 2003 to 2008 he was president and chief appointed deputy group chief financial officer executive officer of the drinks division of the executive officer of TNK-BP.
On his return to with responsibility for the finance function.
BP in 2009, he was appointed to the BP board He was a director of TNK-BP over two periods, Nils was elected as a member and chairman and oversaw the groups activities in the from 2003 to 2005 and from 2010 until the sale of the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel N. V. Americas and Asia.
During 2010 he served as of the business and BPs acquisition of Rosneft in April 2018 and was recently appointed as the president and chief executive officer of equity in 2013.
He served on the HM Treasury chairman of WWF Denmark.
BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization in Financial Management Review Board from Nils received his graduate degree from the the US.
He was appointed a director of Rosneft 2014 to 2017.
in March 2013 following BPs acquisition of a Relevant skills and experience stake in Rosneft.
Since 2016, he has chaired Relevant skills and experience Brian Gilvary has spent his entire career with the Oil and Gas Community of the World Nils Andersen has extensive experience in BP, with broad experience of working across all Economic Forum and is chair of the Oil and consumer goods, retail and logistics, having facets of the group.
This has provided him with Gas Climate Initiative OGCI.
led global corporations with integrated deep insight into BPs assets and businesses.
He has substantial skill, Relevant skills and experience Brian has been a key player as BP has knowledge and experience in marketing, brand Bob Dudley has spent his whole career in the implemented its strategy to transform into a and reputation issues.
He has broad shipping oil and gas industry.
As group chief executive, value over volume based business where and upstream energy industry experience the board believes Bob has demonstrated trading is a key creator of value throughout the which aligns with BPs shipping business.
outstanding leadership and vision and has integrated business.
His leadership earlier in his career focused transformed BP into a safer, stronger and In addition to underpinning his role as chief on the transformation of businesses, leaner simpler business.
Over the past eight years, financial officer, his deep understanding of organizations and increasing competitiveness, Bob has based this transformation on a finance and trading has been vital in adjusting as well as increasing transparency and consistent set of values and behaviours.
BP is capital structures and operational costs while communication with stakeholders.
Nils has now more resilient and is able to continue ensuring the group continues to be capable of recently moved from the audit committee to delivering results in an uncertain economic meeting new opportunities.
the safety, ethics and environment assurance environment.
Bob continues to lead the He played a major role in overseeing the development of the groups strategy, as BP financial consequences of the 2010 oil spill in adapts to the challenges of the advancing BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 59 committee where he will shortly take the chair.
Admiral Frank Bowman Dame Alison Carnwath His broad business experience and his knowledge of safe operations in our industry Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director makes him very well qualified for that role.
Tenure Tenure Appointed 8 November 2010 Appointed 21 May 2018 Alan Boeckmann Board and committee activities Board and committee activities Independent non-executive director Member of the safety, ethics and environment Member of the audit and chairmans assurance, geopolitical and chairmans committees Tenure committees Appointed 24 July 2014 Outside interests Outside interests Member of Supervisory Board and Audit Board and committee activities President of Strategic Decisions, LLC Committee chair of BASF SE Chair of the safety, ethics and environment Director of Morgan Stanley Mutual Funds Director and Audit Committee chair of Zurich assurance committee: member of the Director of Naval and Nuclear Technologies, Insurance Group remuneration, nomination and governance LLP Independent director of PACCAR Inc and chairmans committees Member of UK Panel on Takeovers and Age 74 Nationality American Outside interests Mergers Non-executive director of Sempra Energy Trustee of The Economist Group Career Non-executive director of Archer Daniels Frank Bowman served for more than Age 66 Nationality British Midland 38 years in the US Navy, rising to the rank Age 70 Nationality American of Admiral.
He commanded the nuclear Career submarine USS City of Corpus Christi and Dame Alison Carnwath qualified as a chartered Career the submarine tender USS Holland.
After accountant before going on to hold a number Alan Boeckmann retired as non-executive promotion to flag officer, he served on the of senior financial advisory roles in London and chairman of Fluor Corporation in February joint staff as director of political-military affairs New York.
2012, ending a 35-year career with the and as the chief of naval personnel.
He served For more than 15 years, Dame Alisons career, company.
Between 2002 and 2011 he held over eight years as director of the Naval in her capacities as senior adviser, director and the post of chairman and chief executive Nuclear Propulsion Program where he was chairman, has enabled her to demonstrate her officer, having previously been president responsible for the operations of more than expertise on financial, strategic and good and chief operating officer from 2001 to 100 reactors aboard the US Navys aircraft governance matters both in and outside of 2002.
His tenure with the company included carriers and submarines.
Her current roles include responsibility for global operations.
As After his retirement as an Admiral in 2004, independent director of PACCAR Inc, director chairman and chief executive officer, he he was president and chief executive officer and audit committee chair of Zurich Insurance refocused the company on engineering, of the Nuclear Energy Institute until 2008.
Group and supervisory board member procurement, construction and maintenance He served on the BP Independent Safety and audit committee chair BASF SE.
Review Panel and was a member of the BP Previous roles of note include chairmanship After graduating from the University of America External Advisory Council.
He holds of Land Securities Group plc as well as Arizona with a degree in electrical engineering, two masters degrees in engineering from non-executive directorships of Barclays plc he joined Fluor in 1974 as an engineer the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
and worked in a variety of domestic and He was appointed Honorary Knight international locations, including South Africa Dame Alison is a chartered accountant, holds Commander of the British Empire in 2005. and Venezuela.
an undergraduate degree, has two honorary He was elected to the US National Academy degrees and in 2014 was appointed to the order Alan was previously a non-executive director of Engineering in 2009. of Dame Commander of the Most Excellent of BHP Billiton and the Burlington Santa Fe Frank is a member of the US CNA military Order of the British Empire for her services Corporation, and has served on the boards advisory board and has participated in studies to business and diversity.
of the American Petroleum Institute, the of climate change and its impact on national National Petroleum Council, the Eisenhower Relevant skills and experience security, and on future global energy solutions Medical Center and the advisory board of Dame Alison has extensive financial and water scarcity.
Additionally, he was Southern Methodist Universitys Cox School experience both as an executive and nonco-chair of a National Academies study of Business.
Dame Alison has chaired investigating the implications of climate significant boards and has deep experience He led the formation of the World Economic change for naval forces.
of the workings of investors and the finance Forums Partnering Against Corruption Relevant skills and experience industry in the City of London.
Frank Bowmans exemplary safety record in worked with global organizations and brings Relevant skills and experience running the US Navys nuclear submarine this broad range of skills to the BP board Alan Boeckmann has worked in a wide range program indicates his deep understanding and to the audit committee.
of industries including engineering, of process safety and its implementation.
construction, chemicals and the energy sector.
Frank makes a substantial contribution to the He has been involved in delivering very large safety culture within BP.
Combined with his projects particularly in the energy industry.
In specific knowledge of BPs safety goals his senior roles he directed the focus of global from his work on the BP Independent Safety corporations towards the advanced technology Review Panel and his special interest in needed to remain competitive in response to climate change, he brings an important the growth of the internet, e-commerce and perspective to the board and the safety, the globalization of the workforce.
At the same ethics and environment assurance committee.
time, he actively promoted fairness, He has led the oversight of BPs compliance transparency, accountability and responsibility with the agreements with the US government in business dealings through the Partnering stemming from the Deepwater Horizon Against Corruption initiative.
60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Non-executive director of Majid Al Futtaim Dame Ann is a fellow of the Royal Society Pamela Daley Holding LLC and the Royal Academy of Engineering and a Non-executive director of Johnson & foreign associate of the US National Academy Independent non-executive director Johnson, Inc. of Engineering, the Chinese Academy of Tenure Non-executive director of Teach for All Engineering and the French Academy of Appointed 26 July 2018 Sciences.
She has honorary degrees from 18 Age 68 Nationality British universities, including the University of Oxford, Board and committee activities Imperial College London and the KTH Royal Member of the audit, remuneration and Career Institute of Technology, Stockholm.
chairmans committees Ian Davis is senior partner emeritus of McKinsey & Company.
He was a partner at McKinsey for She was elected President of the Royal Outside interests 31 years until 2010 and served as chairman and Academy of Engineering in September 2014 and Director of BlackRock, Inc managing director between 2003 and 2009.
Ian in December 2015 was appointed to the Order Director of SecureWorks, Inc has a MA in Politics, Philosophy and Economics of Merit.
Age 66 Nationality American from Balliol College, University of Oxford.
Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Dame Ann is an internationally respected Career Ian Davis brings global financial and strategic leader in engineering research and the practical Pamela Daley spent most of her career with experience to the board.
He has worked with application of new technology in industry.
Her the General Electric Company.
She joined GE and advised global organizations and contribution in these fields has been widely in 1989 as tax counsel and held a number of companies in a wide variety of sectors recognized by universities around the world.
senior executive roles in the company, serving including oil and gas and the public sector.
Her academic background provides balance to most recently as senior vice president and He is able to draw on knowledge of diverse the board and brings a different perspective to senior advisor to the chairman from April to issues and outcomes to assist the board and the safety, ethics and environment assurance December 2013, when she retired from GE.
committee, particularly as developments in Between 2004 and 2013 she was senior vice technology accelerate.
Her work in this area is president of corporate business development Ian led the boards oversight of the response supplemented by her chairing the companys at GE, where she was responsible for GEs in the Gulf of Mexico and chaired the Gulf of technology advisory council.
mergers, acquisitions and divestiture activities Mexico committee from its formation in 2010 worldwide, and prior to that, from 1991 to 2004, until it was stood down in 2016.
He was Dame Ann was chair of the remuneration served as vice president and senior counsel previously a non-executive director in the committee from 2015 and stood down from for transactions.
Cabinet Office, giving him an important that committee after the 2018 AGM.
perspective on government affairs which is an Pamela Daley has served as a director of asset to both the board and the geopolitical BlackRock since 2014 and of SecureWorks Melody Meyer committee.
She was a director of BG Group plc Independent non-executive director from 2014 to 2016 until its acquisition by Shell, In his role as the senior independent director, a director of Patheon N. V. from 2016 to 2017 Tenure Ian is responsible for the annual evaluation of until its acquisition by Thermo Fisher, and Appointed 17 May 2017 the chairmans performance and led the search was previously a partner at Morgan, Lewis & for a successor to Carl-Henric Svanberg as Board and committee activities Bockius, a major US law firm, where she chairman, resulting in the appointment of Member of the safety, ethics and environment specialized in domestic and cross-border Helge Lund.
assurance, geopolitical and chairmans tax-oriented financings and commercial committees.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling Outside interests Pamela Daley is a qualified lawyer, she worked President of Melody Meyer Energy LLC Independent non-executive director in highly regulated industries, holding senior Director of the National Bureau of Asian roles on other boards including chair of the Tenure Research governance and nominating committee at Appointed 3 February 2012 Trustee of Trinity University SecureWorks and chair of the audit committee Board and committee activities Non-executive director of AbbVie Inc. at BlackRock.
Member of the safety, ethics and environment Senior Advisor to Cairn India Limited Relevant skills and experience assurance and chairmans committees Director of National Oilwell Varco, Inc. Pamela Daley has deep experience of global Outside interests Age 61 Nationality American business through her executive role at GE.
She President of the Royal Academy of has also served on a UK board in the oil and Engineering Career gas industry which gave her further insight into Deputy vice-chancellor and professor of Melody Meyer started her career with Gulf Oil that sector.
Pamela has joined the audit Mechanical Engineering at the University in Houston.
Gulf Oil later merged with Chevron committee to which she brings deep financial of Cambridge where Melody remained until her retirement experience and expertise.
She has also joined Member of the Prime Ministers Council for in 2016. the remuneration committee, where her Science and Technology During her career with Chevron, Melody had understanding of employee and investor points Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc key leadership roles in global exploration and of view will provide important input.
Age 66 Nationality British production, working on international projects and operational assignments.
In 2004 Melody Ian Davis Career became vice president for the Gulf of Mexico Senior independent director Dame Ann Dowling is a deputy vice-chancellor business unit, and in 2008 became president of at the University of Cambridge where she was the Chevron Energy Technology Company.
Tenure appointed a professor of mechanical engineering From 2011 Melody was president of Asia Pacific Appointed 2 April 2010 in the department of engineering in 1993.
She Exploration and Production, responsible for the Board and committee activities was head of the department of engineering at financial and operating performance of the Member of the remuneration, geopolitical, the university from 2009 to 2014.
Her research upstream assets in nine countries in Chevrons nomination and governance and chairmans is in fluid mechanics, acoustics and combustion, Asia Pacific region.
Melody was the executive committees and she has held visiting posts at MIT and at sponsor of the Chevron Womens Network and Caltech.
She chairs BPs technical advisory continues as a mentor and advocate for the Outside interests council.
advancement of women in the industry.
She Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc was recognized as a 2009 Trinity Distinguished BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 61 Alumni, with the BioHouston Women in Science insight into the challenges faced by global Sir John Sawers Award, was the ASME Rhodes Petroleum businesses by regulatory frameworks.
He Industry Leadership Award recipient and in 2018 recently joined the remuneration committee.
Independent non-executive director as an Influential Woman in Energy.
Tenure Paula Rosput Reynolds Relevant skills and experience Appointed 14 May 2015 Melody Meyer has spent her entire career in Independent non-executive director Board and committee activities the oil and gas industry.
The breadth, variety Tenure Chair of the geopolitical committee: member of and geographic scope of her experience is Appointed 14 May 2015 the safety, ethics and environment assurance, distinctive.
Her career has been marked by a nomination and governance and chairmans Board and committee activities focus on excellence, safety and performance committees Chair of the remuneration committee: member improvement.
She has expertise in the of the audit, nomination and governance and Outside interests execution of major capital projects, creation of chairmans committees Chairman and partner of Macro Advisory businesses in new countries, strategic and Partners LLP business planning, merger integration and safe Outside interests Visiting professor at Kings College London and reliable operations.
Non-executive director of BAE Systems plc Governor of the Ditchley Foundation Melody brings a world-class operational Non-executive director of TransCanada Trustee of the Bilderberg Association, UK perspective to the board, with a deep Corporation until May 2019 understanding of the factors influencing safe, Non-executive director of CBRE Group until Age 63 Nationality British efficient and commercially high-performing May 2019 projects in a global organization.
Non-executive director of General Electric Career Company Sir John Sawers spent 36 years in public service in the UK, working on foreign policy, international Brendan Nelson Age 62 Nationality American security and intelligence.
Independent non-executive director Career Sir John was chief of the Secret Intelligence Tenure Paula Rosput Reynolds is the former chairman, Service, MI6, from 2009 to 2014 a period of Appointed 8 November 2010 president and chief executive officer of Safeco international upheaval and growing security Corporation, a Fortune 500 property and threats, as well as closer public scrutiny of the Board and committee activities casualty insurance company that was acquired intelligence agencies.
Prior to that, the bulk of his Chair of the audit committee: member of the by Liberty Mutual Insurance Group in 2008.
She career was in diplomacy, representing the British chairmans, nomination and governance and also served as vice chair and chief restructuring government around the world and leading remuneration committees officer for American International Group AIG for negotiations at the UN, in the European Union Outside interests a period after the US government became the and in the G8.
He was the UK ambassador to Non-executive director and chairman of the financial sponsor from 2008 to 2009. the United Nations from 2007 to 2009, political group audit committee of The Royal Bank of director and main board member of the Foreign Previously Paula was an executive in the energy Scotland Group plc Office from 2003 to 2007, special representative industry.
She was chairman, president and chief Member of the Financial Reporting Review in Iraq during 2003, ambassador to Egypt from executive officer of AGL Resources Inc. an Panel 2001 to 2003 and foreign policy adviser to the operator of natural gas infrastructure in the US, Age 69 Nationality British Prime Minister from 1999 to 2001.
Earlier in his now a subsidiary of Southern Company.
Prior career, he was posted to Washington, South to this, she led a subsidiary of Duke Energy Career Africa, Syria and Yemen.
Corporation that was a merchant operator of Brendan Nelson is a chartered accountant.
She commenced her Sir John is now chairman of Macro Advisory He was made a partner of KPMG in 1984.
He energy career at PG&E Corp. Partners, a firm that advises clients on the served as a member of the UK board of KPMG intersection of policy, politics and markets.
Paula was awarded the National Association of from 2000 to 2006, subsequently being Corporate Directors US Lifetime Achievement Relevant skills and experience appointed vice chairman until his retirement in Award in 2014.
Sir Johns deep experience of international 2010.
At KPMG International he held a number political and commercial matters is an asset to of senior positions including global chairman, Relevant skills and experience the board in navigating the geopolitical issues banking and global chairman, financial services.
Paula Rosput Reynolds has had a long career faced by a modern global company.
Sir John leading global companies in the energy and He served for six years as a member of the brings a unique perspective and broad financial sectors.
Her financial background and Financial Services Practitioner Panel and in 2013 experience which makes him ideal to lead the deep experience of trading makes her ideally was the president of the Institute of Chartered geopolitical committee.
His knowledge and suited to serve on the audit committee.
skills gained in government, diplomacy and Her experience with international and US Relevant skills and experience policy analysis and advice are invaluable to companies, including several restructuring Brendan Nelson has completed a wide variety both the board and the safety, ethics and processes and mergers, gives her insight into of audit, regulatory and due-diligence environment assurance committee.
strategic and regulatory issues, which is an engagements over the course of his career.
He played a significant role in the development Jens Bertelsen of the professions approach to the audit of Paula currently serves as the chair of the Company secretary banks in the UK, with particular emphasis on remuneration committee of BAE Systems plc.
He continues Her experience there and her wider business Tenure to contribute in his role as a member of the experience and understanding of the views of Appointed 1 January 2019 Financial Reporting Review Panel.
investors are well suited to her being the chair Jens Bertelsen is a solicitor and formerly of the BP remuneration committee.
This wide experience makes him ideally suited deputy secretary.
to chair the audit committee and to act as its financial expert.
He brings related input from his role as the chair of the audit committee of a major bank.
His specialism in the financial services industry allows him to contribute 62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
