Our strategy Society is demanding solutions Growing advantaged oil for more energy, delivered in new and better ways for a low carbon and gas in the upstream future.
Our strategy is designed to meet this dual challenge.
Through new technologies, energy will be produced more efficiently and in new ways, helping to meet the expected rise in demand.
Our strategy allows us to be competitive at a Invest in more oil and gas, time when prices, policy, technology and producing both with increasing customer preferences are evolving rapidly.
We believe having a balanced portfolio with advantaged oil and gas, a competitive Key highlights downstream and a range of low carbon activities, with the flexibility of our strategy, Transforming US onshore gives us optionality whatever path the transition takes.
With the experience we have and the portfolio weve created, we can embrace the energy transition in a way that enhances our investor proposition, while continuing to meet the need for energy.
More information Purchased unconventional assets from BHP, Financial framework giving us access to some of the best basins How this underpins our commitment to disciplined investment and growing in the onshore US.
Collaborative partnerships Signed a new production-sharing agreement with SOCAR, Azerbaijans state oil and gas company, to jointly explore and develop block D230 in the Caspian Sea.
And formed a strategic alliance with Petrobras to explore joint projects in upstream, downstream, trading and low carbon in Brazil.
See Upstream analysis by region on page 279.
Project approvals Sanctioned Ghazeer in Oman the second phase of development in the Khazzan gas field: Alligin and Vorlich in the UK North Sea: the Cassia Compression and Matapal gas projects in Trinidad: KG D6 Satellites in India: Zinia 2 in Angola: Manuel and Atlantis Phase 3 in the Gulf of Mexico: and Tortue in Mauritania and Senegal.
Major project start-ups Started up six major projects, making a significant contribution to the 900,000 barrels per day of expected new production from major project start-ups between 2016 and 2021.
See Glossary 10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report strategy Market-led growth in the Venturing and low Modernizing the downstream carbon across whole group multiple fronts Innovate with advanced products Pursue new opportunities Simplify our processes and enhance and strategic partnerships.
to meet evolving technology, our productivity through digital consumer and policy trends.
Key highlights Convenience partnerships Harnessing battery power Using wearable technologies Opened more than 220 additional REWE to Made a series of investments in electric Trialled new technologies, such as smart Go retail sites in Germany, taking the total vehicle technology and infrastructure to help glasses in the US and digital vests in Oman, number of convenience partnership sites to us respond to rising demand for battery to help increase safety and efficiency at our around 1,400 across our global retail network.
charging facilities, including the acquisition operations.
of Chargemaster, operator of the UKs largest electric vehicle charging network.
See Innovation in BP on page 42.
Growing retail in new markets Advancing solar Cloud-based technologies Expanded our network to 440 BP-branded Lightsource BP has doubled the number Deployed Plant Operations Advisor on our retail sites in Mexico and opened our first of countries where it has a presence since four platforms in the US Gulf of Mexico.
December 2017. cloud-based tool helps reduce the time it could take engineers to diagnose a problem See Downstream on page 28.
See Climate change on page 45. from hours to minutes.
Sustainable aviation fuel Turning waste to fuel See Innovation in BP on page 40.
Entered into an innovative collaboration Licensed technology, developed by BP and Intelligent operations between Air BP and Neste, a leading Johnson Matthey, to Fulcrum BioEnergy for renewable products producer, to secure and use at their planned US commercial-scale Installed APEX technology across all our promote the supply of sustainable aviation fuel.
upstream BP-operated assets to gather data about every well and help identify efficiency See Climate change on page 45. improvements.
Strong brands and partnerships Cleaner power Strengthened our lubricants and fuels See Innovation in BP on page 40. partnership with Renault Sport Racing Working with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Process automation extending our BP Castrol sponsorship and to progress the Clean Gas Project, which plans broadening the relationship to include joint to use natural gas to generate power, and then Reduced the time it takes to complete manual development of advanced mobility solutions capture and transport the CO by pipeline for tasks, such as contract management and 2 and new technologies.
storage in a formation under the southern customer data processing, by using robotic North Sea.
This is helping to optimize See Downstream page 28. our business processes, drive productivity and See bp.
com sustainability for more information.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 11
