Alternative energy 2.8 million tonnes of CO equivalent avoided in 2018.
2 BP has been in the renewable energy business for more than 20 years.
Biofuels We remain one of the largest operators among our peers and were We believe that biofuels offer one of the best large-scale solutions expanding in areas where we see opportunities for growth.
to reduce emissions in the transportation system.
Renewables are the fastest-growing energy source in the world today We produce ethanol from sugar cane in Brazil, which has life-cycle and we estimate that they could provide at least 15% of the global greenhouse gas emissions around 70% lower than conventional energy mix by 2040. transport fuels.
In 2018 our three sites produced 765 million litres of ethanol equivalent.
As part of our approach to building our alternative energy business, we aim to grow our existing businesses and to develop new businesses Brazil is one of the worlds largest markets for ethanol fuel.
In order and partnerships to deliver competitive value in the fastest-growing to better connect our ethanol production with the countrys main fuels energy sector.
markets, we established a joint venture in 2018 with Copersucar one of the worlds leading ethanol and sugar traders.
This includes operating Solar energy a major ethanol storage terminal in Brazils main fuels distribution hub.
Solar could generate 12% of total global power by 2040, in a scenario based on recent trends.
That could grow to 21% in a scenario consistent Our Tropical and Ituiutaba biofuels sites are certified to Bonsucro, an with the Paris climate goals.
independent standard for sustainable sugar cane production.
We are working towards certification for Itumbiara in 2019.
We have a 43% share in Lightsource BP and plan to invest $200 million over a three-year period.
Lightsource BP aims to play a vital role in Our strategy is enabled by: shaping the future of global energy delivery by developing substantial Safe and reliable operations continuing to drive improvements solar capacity around the world, and we are working with Lightsource in safety performance.
BP to expand its global presence.
Driving quality and improved efficiency in our feedstock Lightsource BP has doubled the number of countries where it has concentrating our efforts in Brazil, which has one of the most a presence since December 2017 see Climate change on page 45. cost-competitive biofuel sources in the world.
Domestic and international markets selling ethanol and sugar domestically in Brazil and to international markets such as the US.
Renewable products Butamax, our 50 50 joint venture with DuPont, has developed technology that converts sugars from corn into bio-isobutanol, an energy-rich bio product.
Bio-isobutanol has a wide variety of applications.
For example, it can be used in the production of paints, coatings and lubricant components.
It can also be blended with gasoline at higher concentrations than ethanol, which can be transported through existing fuel pipelines and infrastructure.
Butamax has upgraded its ethanol facility in Kansas to produce bio-isobutanol.
See Glossary 38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report performance Biopower At our Titan 1 wind energy site in South Dakota, weve partnered We create biopower from bagasse, the fibre that remains after with Tesla to test how effectively wind energy can be stored see crushing sugar cane stalks.
In 2018 our three biofuels manufacturing Harnessing battery power on page 42. facilities produced around 892GWh of electricity enough renewable In 2018 we divested three wind energy operations in Texas, as part energy to power all of these sites, with the remaining 70% exported of a broader restructuring programme designed to optimize our US to the local electricity grid.
wind portfolio for long-term growth.
This is a low carbon power source, with part of the CO emitted from 2 More information burning bagasse offset by the CO absorbed by sugar cane during 2 its growth.
Low carbon ambitions We have set targets and aims to reduce emissions in our operations, improve Wind energy our products to help customers reduce their emissions and create low carbon BP has significant interests in onshore wind energy in the US.
We businesses see pages 46-48. operate 10 sites in seven states and hold an interest in another facility in Hawaii.
Together they have a net generating capacity of just over 1,000MW.
Using technology in biofuels Our SmartLog programme is helping improve 45,000km performance across our three biofuels sites travelled a day in Brazil.
SmartLog is designed to increase efficiency across sugar cane cutting, loading and transportation operations and consequently reduces the costs involved.
Every day across our sites we make around 800 trips covering 45,000 kilometres.
This takes place in remote locations with poor network and communications coverage.
Using a combination of mobile satellite technology, sensors and radios we can connect our people and their vehicles to a central control room.
Here we receive 24-hour real-time information about whats happening in the field to help manage activities remotely, as well as monitoring and analysing behaviours and giving advice or intervening about safety or efficiency.
Automation guides workers on improvements such as how to prioritize harvest activities and indicates the optimum speed for harvesters to run at based on prevailing conditions.
Since introducing SmartLog in 2018, weve reduced equipment needed by 20% and our remote monitoring is helping to reinforce our safety culture in the field.
It has also helped to lower emissions as the reduction in equipment means we use less diesel.
See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 39
