Our strategy Society is demanding solutions Growing advantaged oil for more energy, delivered in new and better ways for a low carbon and gas in the upstream future.
Our strategy is designed to meet this dual challenge.
Through new technologies, energy will be produced more efficiently and in new ways, helping to meet the expected rise in demand.
Our strategy allows us to be competitive at a Invest in more oil and gas, time when prices, policy, technology and producing both with increasing customer preferences are evolving rapidly.
We believe having a balanced portfolio with advantaged oil and gas, a competitive Key highlights downstream and a range of low carbon activities, with the flexibility of our strategy, Transforming US onshore gives us optionality whatever path the transition takes.
With the experience we have and the portfolio weve created, we can embrace the energy transition in a way that enhances our investor proposition, while continuing to meet the need for energy.
More information Purchased unconventional assets from BHP, Financial framework giving us access to some of the best basins How this underpins our commitment to disciplined investment and growing in the onshore US.
Collaborative partnerships Signed a new production-sharing agreement with SOCAR, Azerbaijans state oil and gas company, to jointly explore and develop block D230 in the Caspian Sea.
And formed a strategic alliance with Petrobras to explore joint projects in upstream, downstream, trading and low carbon in Brazil.
See Upstream analysis by region on page 279.
Project approvals Sanctioned Ghazeer in Oman the second phase of development in the Khazzan gas field: Alligin and Vorlich in the UK North Sea: the Cassia Compression and Matapal gas projects in Trinidad: KG D6 Satellites in India: Zinia 2 in Angola: Manuel and Atlantis Phase 3 in the Gulf of Mexico: and Tortue in Mauritania and Senegal.
Major project start-ups Started up six major projects, making a significant contribution to the 900,000 barrels per day of expected new production from major project start-ups between 2016 and 2021.
See Glossary 10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
