Shareholder engagement Institutional investors Retail investors The company operates an active investor relations programme.
The BP held a further event for retail investors in conjunction with the UK board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an Shareholders Association UKSA in 2018.
The chairman and head of anonymous investor audit and reports from management and those investor relations gave presentations on BPs annual results, strategy directors who meet with shareholders each year.
In 2018 the chair of and the work of the board.
Shareholders questions were focused on the remuneration committee undertook extensive engagement on BPs activities and performance.
the application of the remuneration policy prior to the AGM in May see the remuneration committee report on page 83.
Helge Lund also AGM held one-to-one meetings with 14 major institutional investors during Voting levels increased in 2018 to 67.3% of issued share capital, the last quarter of the year prior to him becoming the chairman.
including votes cast as withheld, compared to 50.8% in 2017 and Senior management regularly meets with institutional investors 64.3% in 2016. through road shows, group and one-to-one meetings, events for All resolutions were passed at the meeting.
Each year the board socially responsible investors SRIs and oil and gas sector receives a report after the AGM giving a breakdown of the votes conferences throughout the year.
and investor feedback on their voting decisions to inform them on In April, the chairman and all board committee chairs held an annual any issues arising.
This meeting enabled BPs largest shareholders to hear about the work of the board and its committees and for investors UK Corporate Governance Code compliance to share their views directly with NEDs.
BP complied throughout 2018 with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code except in the following aspects: More information B.
3.2 L etters of appointment do not set out fixed-time commitments See bp.
com investors for investor since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to and strategy presentations, including change according to the demands of business and other events.
the groups financial results and Our letters of appointment set a general guide of a time information on the work of the board and its committees.
commitment of between 30-40 days per year.
All directors are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination Shareholder engagement cycle 2018 and governance committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
Fourth quarter and full year 2017 results and D. 2.2 T he remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration strategy update committee.
Instead, the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to Investor roadshows with executive management the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by fourth quarter and full year 2017 results shareholders.
This wider process enables all board members to BP Energy Outlook presentation discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration, rather than US SRI meetings on remuneration solely the members of the remuneration committee.
Q1 Investor meetings on remuneration, continuing BP remains cognizant of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and into Q2 will report accordingly in our 2019 Annual Report and Form 20-F. A copy BP Annual Report 2017 launch of the UK Corporate Governance Code is available at frc.
BP Sustainability Report 2017 launch BP Technology Outlook launch Chairman and board committee chairs meetings International advisory board UKSA retail shareholders meeting with the chairman BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating to Q2 First quarter 2018 results presentation the company.
This group meets once or twice a year and between Annual general meeting meetings IAB members remain available to provide advice and counsel Advancing the Energy Transition launch when needed.
BP Statistical Review of World Energy launch Membership of the IAB in 2018 comprised Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo, John Key and Dr Javier Solana.
The chairman, chief executive and Sir John Sawers Second quarter 2018 results presentation attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues discussed in 2018 included the Investor roadshows with executive management Q3 global economy, developments in the Middle East, political events in following 2Q results Latin America and the political and economic outlook in the US.
The IAB discussed the UKs potential exit from the European Union at both of its meetings during 2018.
Third quarter 2018 results presentation Q4 Upstream investor day in Oman 74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
