Strategic report overview The changing energy mix The BP Energy Outlook explores the forces shaping the global energy transition out to 2040 and the key uncertainties surrounding that transition.
We use the scenarios in the Outlook together with a range of other analysis and information when forming our long-term strategy.
The demand for energy is set to increase significantly growing That said, oil and gas could meet at least 50% of the worlds energy economies need energy to support their industry and infrastructure.
needs in 2040 even in a scenario consistent with the Paris goals, with In all the scenarios considered, world GDP more than doubles by 2040 the share of gas growing aided by increasing use of carbon capture, use driven by increasing prosperity in fast-growing developing economies.
In the evolving transition scenario, this improvement in living standards Gas offers a cleaner alternative to coal for power generation and can causes energy demand to increase by a third by 2040, driven mainly by lower emissions at scale.
It also provides a valuable partner for India, China and other developing Asian economies.
The rate of growth renewables intermittency, delivers heating at the high temperatures however is slower than in the previous 20 years, as the world increasingly required by industry and is increasingly used in transportation.
Across learns to produce more with less energy.
Despite this, a substantial our scenarios, gas grows robustly, overtaking coal as the second-largest proportion of the worlds population in 2040 could live in countries where source of energy by 2030. the average energy consumption per person is relatively low.
Oil demand grows for the next 10 years in our evolving transition scenario, At the same time, the energy mix is changing as technology advances, before gradually levelling out due to factors such as accelerating gains in consumer preferences shift and policy measures evolve.
Renewables vehicle efficiency and greater use of biofuels, natural gas and electricity.
are now the fastest-growing energy source in the world today and in our The largest source of oil demand growth is the non-combusted use of oil, evolving transition scenario we estimate that they could account for for example as a feedstock for petrochemicals.
15% of all energy consumption in 2040 and in other scenarios more.
Energy consumption 2040 projections Actual energy mix 2017 1 Evolving transition Evolving transition 2040 This scenario assumes that government policies, technology and social preferences continue to evolve in a manner and speed seen Rapid transition over the recent past.
2040 2 Rapid transition This scenario is consistent with the 0 5 10 15 20 Paris goals, and is broadly similar to Billion tonnes of oil equivalent.
The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding.
the reduction in carbon emissions in the IEAs Sustainable Development Scenario.
Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables 1 2 Rapid transition Evolving transition More information Oil demand in 2040 decreases by 14Mb d. World energy demand increases by one third BP Energy Outlook from 2017 to 2040.
Biofuels grow by 4Mb d. See bp.
com energyoutlook for more information on our projections of future energy trends and factors CO emissions from energy use decline CO emissions from energy use increase 2 2 that could affect them out to 2040. by 7% by 2040. by around 45% by 2040.
BP Technology Outlook Global energy consumption grows by See bp.
com technologyoutlook for information on Oil and gas account for more than half of how technology could influence the way we meet global energy in 2040. around one fifth.
the energy challenge into the future.
