Directors statements The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, IFRS as adopted by the EU and in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, give a The directors are required by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view or loss of the group.
of the financial position of the group and the parent company and the financial performance and cash flows of the group and parent company The parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance for that period.
Under that law they are required to prepare the with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give consolidated financial statements in accordance with International a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union performance and cash flows of the company.
EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company The management report, which is incorporated in the strategic financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law report and directors report, includes a fair review of the development and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally and performance of the business and the position of the group, accepted accounting practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Framework.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the that they face.
directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the Helge Lund International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Chairman In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 29 March 2019 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Risk management and internal control Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Under the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the board is information.
responsible for the companys risk management and internal control systems.
In discharging this responsibility the board, through its Provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specific governance principles, requires the group chief executive to operate the requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the company with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
In turn, the board, groups financial position and financial performance.
through its monitoring processes, satisfies itself that these material risks State that applicable accounting standards have been followed, are identified and understood by management and that systems of risk subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the management and internal control are in place to mitigate them.
These parent company financial statements.
systems are reviewed periodically by the board, have been in place for Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it the year under review and up to the date of this report and are consistent is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in with the requirements of principle C. 2 of the Code.
The board has processes in place to: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Assess the principal risks facing the company.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and company and enable them to ensure that the Monitor the companys system of internal control which includes the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial risks.
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Review the effectiveness of that system annually.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and company and Non-operated joint ventures and associates have not been dealt with as hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of part of this board process.
A description of the principal risks facing the company, including those Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, that could potentially threaten its business model, future performance, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the solvency or liquidity, is set out in Risk factors on page 55.
During the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditors are unaware, year, the board undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks and the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to facing the company.
The principal means by which these risks are make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to managed or mitigated are set out in How we manage risk on page 53. establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
In assessing the risks faced by the company and monitoring the system of internal control, the board and the audit, safety, ethics and environment assurance and geopolitical committees requested, received and reviewed reports from executive management, including management of the business segments, corporate activities and functions, at their regular meetings.
A report by each of these committees, including its activities during the year, is set out on pages 75-86.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
110 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance During the year, the committees also met with management, the group Going concern head of audit and other monitoring and assurance functions including In accordance with provision C. 1.3 of the Code, the directors consider it group ethics and compliance, safety and operational risk, group control, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing group legal and group risk and the external auditor.
Responses by the financial statements.
management to incidents that occurred were considered by the appropriate committee or the board.
Fair, balanced and understandable An audit committee meeting in January 2019 carried out an annual The board considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the considering this system, the audit committee noted that it is designed to information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business position and performance, business model and strategy.
objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This review included a report from the group head of audit which summarized group audits consideration of the design and operation of elements of BPs system of internal control over significant risks arising in the categories of strategic and commercial, safety and operational and compliance and control, in addition to considering the control environment for the group.
The report also highlighted the results of internal audit work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by management in response to failings and weaknesses identified.
Where failings or weaknesses were identified, the audit committee was satisfied that these were or are being appropriately addressed by the remedial actions proposed by management.
At its meeting in March 2019, the board considered the review undertaken by the audit committee and the proposed disclosures outlining the companys risk management and internal control systems prior to publication of the annual report and accounts.
A statement regarding the companys internal controls over financial reporting is set out on page 300.
Longer-term viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the company over a period significantly longer than 12 months.
The directors believe that a viability assessment period of three years is appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the position and performance of the company over this period, taking account of its short-term and longer-range plans, including committed capital investment.
Taking into account the companys current position and its principal risks on page 55, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over three years.
The directors assessment included a review of the financial impact of the most severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten the viability of the company and the likely effectiveness of the potential mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the company over this period.
These scenarios included a process safety incident and a sustained oil price decline.
In assessing the prospects of the company, the directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 111
