BP BP i in nv vest esto or r p pr ro op po os sit itiio on n of demand in a low carbon world.
We have strong incumbent positions in many of the worlds top hydrocarbon basins and a robust pipeline of growth opportunities see page 27.
We started up six major projects in 2018.
Fit for the Focused on The Downstream business has a strong and focused presence.
We Safer future returns have advantaged manufacturing facilities, considerable potential for growth in our marketing businesses, and are expanding our retail network in rapidly growing markets such as Mexico, Indonesia and China.
We also provide products such as fuels with ACTIVE technology and offers that help consumers lower their emissions see page 28.
Safe, reliable A distinctive Value based, and efficient portfolio fit for a disciplined Through our well-established supply and trading function we generate execution changing world investment and value by providing the link between our businesses and third-party cost focus customers.
In November BP and partners in banking and trading launched VAKT, the worlds first blockchain platform for managing post-trade oil and commodities commercially.
And were increasing our activity in renewables, building on our existing solar, wind and biofuels businesses, and creating new business models.
For example Lightsource BP has doubled the number of countries Growing sustainable free where it has a presence since December 2017 see page 47. cash flow and distributions Embedded within our strategy is our commitment to advance a low to shareholders over the long term carbon future.
We plan to deliver this across our entire business by reducing emissions in our operations, improving our products and services, and creating low carbon businesses.
See Our low carbon ambitions on page 46.
Our investor proposition is to grow sustainable free cash flow and We are actively managing the portfolio to remain resilient in a distributions to shareholders over the long term.
We believe our strategy changing world and believe we have enough flexibility in our portfolio enables this, through a focus on safe, reliable and efficient execution, to reshape our business and balance sheet in around 10 years should leveraging our distinctive portfolio, and disciplined investment to support we need to.
This enables us to monitor changing trends and legislation, growing returns.
and provides us with optionality to adjust our portfolio and adapt to Safer the future.
Safety is one of our core values and our number one priority.
We are Focused on returns focused on being systematic, disciplined and process driven.
We have a disciplined financial framework that is central to our strategy, A safe business doesnt just protect people, it also helps improve and clear growth plans out to 2021 and beyond.
operating performance, leading to improved business and financial performance.
In recent years overall safety events have declined, and Recent portfolio additions and new long-term agreements for example weve increased upstream plant reliability and downstream refining our purchase of BHPs unconventional onshore assets in the US and availability.
the new production-sharing agreement we signed with SOCAR in Azerbaijan have strengthened our position.
See Measuring our progress on page 16 and Safety on page 43.
We have held our capital frame of $15-17 billion a year for organic Fit for the future expenditure for the past three years and expect to do so at least out to 2021.
We believe we can continue to generate robust organic growth As an integrated business, we benefit from having upstream, within this framework and that the strength of our balance sheet will downstream, renewable energy businesses and an established trading allow us to deal with any near-term volatility.
Our balanced portfolio spans resource types and geographies with a strong and distinctive set of assets, brands and relationships.
We remain confident in our guidance on returns of greater than 10% by 2021 at an oil price of $55 bbl based on real 2017 Brent oil prices.
In the Upstream we are growing advantaged oil and gas that means low cost or high margin.
This improves the likelihood that See Group performance on page 19. the hydrocarbons we produce are resilient and competitive in terms Distributions to shareholders 2.5% $8.1bn Our commitment to growing distributions to shareholders is underpinned by our progressive dividend policy and share buyback programme.
dividend increase total dividends distributed in July to BP shareholders in 2018 In July 2018 we announced a 2.5% increase to our dividend, and over the year distributed total dividends to shareholders of $8.1 billion.
We have remained active in our share buyback programme, buying back 50 million ordinary shares in 2018 at a cost of $355 million including fees and stamp duty.
See Glossary 12 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report strategy Our financial framework We maintain a disciplined financial framework, which underpins our investment choices and supports growth in sustainable free cash flow, returns and distributions to shareholders.
Our balance sheet and cash cover metrics are strong, and during 2018 this enabled us to acquire the BHP Lower 48 assets, funded using available cash.
Alongside the real momentum across our businesses, and in line with growing free cash flow and the receipt of divestment proceeds, we continue to expect to deliver the 2021 targets laid out two years ago.
2018 outcome Guidance 2019-2021 Capital expenditure Organic capital expenditure was $15.1 We expect organic capital expenditure to be billion, at the bottom end of our guidance.
in the range of $15-17 billion per year.
Divestments Total divestment and other proceeds of We expect more than $10 billion of a $3.5 billion achieved.
This was in line with divestments over the next two years.
This guidance of more than $3 billion for the year.
includes divestments announced as part of the BHP transaction.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill 2018 payments totalled $3.2 billion, in line We expect payments of around $2 billion in payments with our guidance of just over $3 billion.
2019, stepping down to around $1 billion per year for the next 14 years.
Gearing Gearing at the end of 2018 was 30.3%.
We expect gearing to be in the range of 20-30%.
Group return on average ROACE was 11.2%, almost double that We expect ROACE to be more than 10% by capital employed ROACE in 2017.
2021 at $55 bbl based on real 2017 Brent oil prices.
Distributions We increased the quarterly dividend by 2.5% Progressive dividend and a continued share in July and repurchased 50 million ordinary buyback programme, which is expected to shares at a cost of $355 million in 2018. fully offset the impact of scrip dilution since the third quarter of 2017 by the end of 2019.
Our published guidance will be updated for any impacts associated with the new lease accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leases, during 2019. a This includes a $0.6 billion loan repayment to BP relating to the refinancing of Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG.
Divestment proceeds for 2018 were $2.9 billion.
b b Balancing our sources and uses of cash Organic sources and uses of cash $ billion For the year ended 31 December Following the rebalancing of organic sources and uses of cash in 2017, operating cash flow excluding the Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments 2018 2017 30 30 exceeded organic capital expenditure and dividends in 2018.
After 25 25 adjusting for a working capital build in the year, BPs free cash flow 20 20 surplus was $6.5 billion equivalent to an organic cash break even oil 15 15 price of $50 per barrel on a full dividend basis.
We continue to 10 10 expect the cash break even to reduce over time in line with growing 5 5 operating cash flow across the businesses and organic capital expenditure in the range of $15-17 billion per year.
Sources Uses Sources Uses b Other sources and uses of cash $ billion For the year ended 31 December Nearest equivalent GAAP measures 2018 2017 15 15 Capital expenditure: $25.1 billion.
5 5 Numerator: Profit attributable to BP shareholders $9.4 billion: Denominator: Average capital employed $165.5 billion.
Sources Uses Sources Uses Organic sources Organic uses Operating cash ow excluding Gulf of Organic capital expenditure Mexico oil spill payments Cash dividends paid Share buyback b Others This does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
c 2018 includes a $0.6 billion loan repayment to BP relating to the refinancing of Trans Adriatic Other sources Other uses c Pipeline AG.
2017 includes proceeds of $0.8 billion received relating to the initial public offering Divestment and other proceeds Operating cash ow Gulf of Mexico oil spill of BP Midstream Partners LPs common units, which are shown within financing activities in Inorganic capital expenditure the group cash flow statement.
See Glossary BP BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 13
