How we run our business Business model foundations Safe and reliable operations Talented people From the deep sea to the desert, We strive to create and maintain a safe We work to attract, motivate, develop and operating culture where safety is front and retain the best talent the world offers and from rigs to retail, we deliver centre.
This is not only safer for people equip our people with the right skills for energy products and services and the environment it also improves the the future.
Our performance and ability to people around the world.
to thrive globally depend on it.
We provide customers with fuel for See Safety and security on page 43.
See Our people on page 51. transport, energy for heat and light, power for industry, lubricants to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items 1 Finding oil and gas such as paints, clothes and packaging.
We have a diverse portfolio across businesses, resource types and geographies.
Having upstream, downstream and renewables businesses, along with well-established trading capabilities, helps to mitigate the impact of commodity pricing cycles.
Our geographic reach gives us access to growing markets and new resources, as well as diversifying exposure to geopolitical events.
We are helping to meet the dual challenge of societys need for more energy while reducing emissions through our reduce, improve, create framework see page 46.
We believe that our long history, well-recognized brands and customer offers, combined with our unique partnership with Rosneft, help differentiate us from our peers.
2 Developing and extracting oil and gas Creating value Our role in society We also seek to grow or extend the life of 1 Finding oil and gas The energy we produce helps support existing fields such as our Clair Ridge project, economic growth and improve quality New access allows us to renew our portfolio, which is helping unlock additional resources of life for millions of people.
We strive to discover additional resources and replenish from the Clair field in the UK North Sea.
be a world-class operator, a responsible our development options.
We focus our corporate citizen and a great employer.
See Upstream on page 22. exploration activities in the areas that are competitive in the portfolio, and develop and We believe the societies and 3 Transporting and trading use technology to reduce costs and risks.
communities we work in should benefit We move oil and gas through pipelines and by from our presence.
We aim to create 2 D eveloping and extracting ship, truck and rail.
We also trade a variety of positive, meaningful and sustainable oil and gas products including oil, natural gas, liquefied impacts in those communities through We develop the resources that meet our natural gas, power and carbon products, as our social investments.
return threshold and produce hydrocarbons well as derivatives and currencies.
BPs traders We contribute to economies around that we then sell to the market or distribute serve more than 12,000 customers across the world by employing local people, to our downstream facilities.
Our upstream some 140 countries in a year.
Our customers helping to develop national and local pipeline of future projects gives us choice range from independent power producers to suppliers, and through the funds we about which we pursue.
We are the largest pay to governments from taxes and trader of natural gas in North America.
We use our market intelligence to analyse See bp.
com society for more information supply and demand for commodities across on how we generate value to society.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic report Strategic report overview overview Technology and innovation Partnerships and collaboration Governance and oversight New technologies help us produce energy We aim to build enduring relationships Our risk management systems and policy safely and more efficiently.
We selectively with governments, customers, partners, provide a consistent and clear framework invest in areas with the potential to add greatest suppliers and communities in the countries for managing and reporting risks.
The board value to our business, now and in the future, where we operate.
regularly reviews how we identify, evaluate including building lower carbon businesses.
See Innovation in BP on page 40.
See Rosneft on page 34 and Upstream analysis See How we manage risk on page 53 by region on page 279. and Corporate governance on page 57.
3 Transporting and trading 4 Manufacturing and marketing 6 5 Venturing Generating renewable energy In petrochemicals our proprietary technology And in solar energy we target the growing 4 M anufacturing and marketing fuels solutions deliver leading cost positions demand for large-scale solar projects and products compared to our competitors.
In addition to worldwide through Lightsource BP.
We produce refined petroleum products our own petrochemicals plants, we work See Alternative energy on page 38 and at our refineries and supply distinctive with partners and license our technology Climate change on page 45. fuels and convenience retail services to to third parties.
Our advantaged infrastructure, 6 See Downstream on page 28.
Venturing logistics network and key partnerships help us to have differentiated fuels businesses We invest in high-tech companies to help 5 Generating renewable energy and deliver compelling customer offers, accelerate and commercialize new including lower carbon products.
We have been investing in renewables for technologies, products and business many years.
Our focus is on biofuels, models.
Our focus is on five areas that Our lubricants business has premium biopower, wind energy and solar energy.
are core to our strategy for advancing the brands and access to growth markets.
We operate a biofuels business in Brazil, energy transition: advanced mobility, It also leverages technology and customer using one of the worlds most sustainable and bio and low carbon products, carbon relationships, all of which we believe gives advantaged feedstocks to produce renewable management, digital transformation and us competitive advantage.
We serve ethanol and power.
We also provide renewable power and storage.
automotive, industrial, marine and energy power through our significant interests in lubricant markets across the world.
onshore wind energy in the US, and develop and deploy technology to drive efficiency.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 5
