Corporate governance Committee reports Role of the committee The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
Key responsibilities Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive limitations, as set out in the BP board governance principles.
Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
Audit committee Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
The committee continued to monitor the Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and groups system of internal control, risk performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor management and work of key functions to supply non-audit services to BP.
as well as reviewing and challenging as Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to appropriate the disclosures and key raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Members Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010 and chair since April 2011 Chairmans introduction Nils Andersen Member since October 2016: resigned As in previous years, the committee has continued to review the September 2018 integrity of the groups financial reporting by challenging and debating Alison Carnwath Member since May 2018 the judgements made by management, including the estimates which Pamela Daley Member since October 2018 are made.
We receive reports from management and the external auditor each quarter highlighting significant accounting issues and Paula Reynolds Member since May 2015 judgements and have used these to inform our debate on whether BPs financial reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered In 2018 the committee focused on the effectiveness of a number of Accountants of Scotland.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit group functions including integrated supply and trading, procurement, committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and a member of tax, information technology and security, and shipping.
We also received the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The board is satisfied that he is presentations regarding, and reviewed performance of, the Upstream the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial segment and the lubricants business.
These reviews were valuable in experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code and not only informing the committee of the work and future plans of those competence in accounting and auditing as required by the FCAs functions and businesses but also examining the key risks and Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7.
It considers that the committee associated mitigations faced by each of them.
In addition, the as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, committee carried out reviews into the group risks of financial liquidity, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to cyber security and compliance with business regulations.
address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
The board also The transition to Deloitte from EY was completed in 2018.
We met with determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria both EY and Deloitte during 2018 as the transition occurred and oversaw provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and and monitored Deloittes work as they settled into their role.
We meet that Brendan may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as regularly with the lead audit partner.
defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Nils Andersen retired from the committee in September 2018 as he joined the SEEAC.
I would like to thank Nils for his service to the Meetings and attendance committee, and for the challenge and perspective he provided as a There were nine committee meetings in 2018, of which three were by member.
We were very pleased to welcome Dame Alison Carnwath teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting during the period to the committee in May 2018 with Pamela Daley also joining in October in which they were committee members, except for Nils Andersen, 2018.
Each of them bring excellent financial and other relevant skills to Alison Carnwath and Paula Reynolds who all missed a meeting each the committee.
due to pre-existing external commitments.
Regular attendees at the Brendan Nelson meetings include the chief financial officer, group controller, chief Committee chair accounting officer, group head of audit, group general counsel and external auditor.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 75 Activities during the year Financial disclosure and compliance functions, Financial liquidity: including the development of the anti-bribery risk associated with external The committee reviewed the considered whether the period and corruption elements of market conditions, supply and quarterly, half-year and annual covered by the companys viability the programme, enhanced demand and prices achieved for financial statements with statement was appropriate.
policies, tools and training and BPs products which could impact management, focusing on the: strengthening of counter-party risk financial performance.
The committee considered the measures, including due diligence.
Integrity of the groups BP Annual Report and Form 20-F The committee reviewed the key The committee also reviewed key financial reporting process.
2017 and assessed whether the price assumptions used by the areas of BPs legal function that Clarity of disclosure.
report was fair, balanced and group for investment appraisal and advise on compliance matters.
Compliance with relevant legal understandable and provided the judgements underlying those and financial reporting standards.
the information necessary for Cyber security risk: including proposals, the cost of capital and its Application of accounting shareholders to assess the inappropriate access to or misuse application as a discount rate to policies and judgements.
groups position and performance, of information and systems and evaluate long-term BP business business model and strategy.
In As part of its review, the disruption of business activity.
projects, liquidity including credit making this assessment, the committee received quarterly rating, hedging, long-term The committee reviewed ongoing committee examined disclosures updates from management and commercial commitments and developments in the cyber during the year, discussed the the external auditor in relation to credit risk and the effectiveness security landscape, including requirement with senior accounting judgements and and efficiency of the capital events in the oil and gas industry management, confirmed that estimates including those relating investment into major projects.
The review representations to the external to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, These assumptions also impacted focused on the improvements auditors had been evidenced and recoverability of asset carrying financial reporting see page 79. made in managing cyber risk, reviewed reports relating to values and other matters.
including the application of the BPs principal risks are listed on internal control over financial The committee keeps under three lines of defence model and page 55. reporting.
The committee made review the frequency of results examining the indicators a recommendation to the board, For 2019, the board has agreed reporting during the year.
associated with risk management who in turn reviewed the report that the committee will continue and barrier performance.
as a whole, confirmed the to monitor the same four group The committee reviewed the assessment and approved the risks as for 2018. assessment and reporting of reports publication.
longer-term viability, risk management and the system of Other disclosures reviewed Other reviews internal control, including the included: reporting and categorization of risk Oil and gas reserves.
Other reviews undertaken in 2018 performance, risk management across the group and the Pensions and post-retirement by the committee included: and controls, audit findings, key examination of what might benefits assumptions.
litigation and ethics and constitute a significant failing or Lubricants: including strategy Risk factors.
weakness in the system of and strategic progress, financial Legal liabilities.
It also examined performance, risk management Capability and succession in Tax strategy.
the groups modelling for stress and controls, audit findings, key BPs finance function, including Going concern.
testing different financial and litigation and ethics and the groups finance IFRS 16 lease accounting.
operational events, and compliance findings.
Upstream: including vision and Assessment of financial metrics priorities, structure and for executive remuneration: Risk reviews portfolio, financial controls and consideration of financial the balance sheet, an overview performance for the groups The principal risks allocated to the integrated supply and trading of tangible and intangible assets 2018 annual cash bonus audit committee for monitoring in functions risk management and a review of the segments scorecard and performance 2018 included those associated programme, including finance organization.
share plan, including with: compliance with regulatory adjustments to plan conditions developments and activities in Shipping: including an overview Trading activities: including risks and NOIs.
of BP shippings role and arising from shortcomings or failures operating model, financial Auditor transition: regular in systems, risk management Compliance with applicable performance, strategy, risk reports from the external methodology, internal control laws and regulations: including management and controls and auditor regarding its transition processes or employees.
ethical misconduct or breaches of the impact of IFRS 16 lease into the role including detailed applicable laws or regulations that In reviewing this risk, the accounting standard.
updates on issues identified by could damage BPs reputation, committee focused on external the external auditor.
adversely affect operational results Tax: including strategy and market developments and how and or shareholder value and strategic progress, key Internal controls: assessments BPs trading function had potentially affect BPs licence drivers of the groups effective of managements plans to responded including new areas to operate.
tax rate, the global indirect tax remediate the external auditors of activity, such as emissions environment and the tax findings in relation to IT access trading and impacts on the The committee reviewed the modernization programme.
groups ethics and compliance programme, including the work of Procurement: including strategy The committee further the business integrity and ethics and strategic progress, financial considered updates in the See Glossary 76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Training In te rnal control and risk management The committee held a review on reserves and pensions.
It received The committee received The committee reviewed the technical updates from the chief accounting officer on developments quarterly reports on the findings effectiveness of internal audit.
in financial reporting and accounting policy, in particular regarding the of group audit in 2018.
The introduction of IFRS 16 Leases accounting from the start of 2019.
The audit committee also held committee met privately with private meetings with the group the group head of audit and key Integrated supply and trading visit ethics and compliance officer members of his leadership team.
In October, the committee held its meeting at BPs integrated supply and trading IST business in London and conducted its annual tour of the business which covered oil and gas market fundamentals, finance and risk, ISTs strategy, and presentations on oil products and LNG trading.
Accounting judgements and estimates Areas of significant judgement considered by the committee in 2018 and how these were addressed included: Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions outcomes in financial reporting Gulf of Mexico oil spill BP uses judgement in relation to the A r eview of the provisioning for and T he group income statement includes a recognition of provisions relating to the Gulf disclosure of uncertainties relating to the pre-tax charge of $1.2 billion in relation to the of Mexico oil spill.
The timing and amounts of Gulf of Mexico oil spill was undertaken each Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
the remaining cash flows are subject to quarter as part of the review of the stock D isclosure includes information on uncertainty and estimation is required to exchange announcement.
determine the amounts provided for.
P articular focus was given to updates to the T he audit committee noted that following provision related to business economic loss the significant number of BEL claim BEL and other claims related to the Gulf of settlements in the year, the degree of Mexico oil spill, including the continuing judgement necessary to determine the effect of the Fifth Circuit May 2017 opinion year-end provision had reduced significantly.
on the matching of revenues with expenses when evaluating BEL claims.
Oil and natural gas accounting, including reserves BP uses technical and commercial judgements H eld an in-depth review of BPs policy and E xploration write-offs totalling $1.1 billion when accounting for oil and gas exploration, guidelines for compliance with oil and gas were recognized during the year.
appraisal and development expenditure and in reserves disclosure regulation, including the B P remains committed to developing the determining the groups estimated oil and gas groups reserves governance framework Gulf of Mexico licences and believes it is reserves.
appropriate to continue to capitalize the Reserves estimates based on managements R eviewed exploration write-offs as part of costs.
assumptions for future commodity prices have the groups quarterly due diligence process.
E xploration intangibles totalled $16.0 billion a direct impact on the assessment of the R eceived briefings on the status of at 31 December 2018. recoverability of asset carrying values reported upstream intangible assets, including the in the financial statements.
status of items on the intangibles assets Judgement is required to determine whether it watch-list, including certain Gulf of Mexico is appropriate to continue to carry intangible licences which expired in 2013 and 2014. assets related to exploration costs on the R eceived the output of managements balance sheet.
annual intangible asset certification process used to ensure accounting criteria to continue to carry the exploration intangible balance are met.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 77 Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions outcomes in financial reporting Recoverability of asset carrying values Determination as to whether and how much R eviewed the groups oil and gas price T he groups long-term price assumptions for an asset, cash generating unit CGU or group assumptions.
Brent oil, and Henry Hub gas were of CGUs containing goodwill is impaired unchanged from 2017.
R eviewed the groups discount rates for involves management judgement and impairment testing purposes.
T he groups discount rates used for estimates on uncertain matters such as future impairment testing were also unchanged.
Upstream impairment charges, reversals commodity pricing, discount rates, production and watch-list items were reviewed as I mpairments of $0.1 billion were recorded in profiles, reserves and the impact of inflation on part of the quarterly due diligence process.
the year, net of impairment reversals.
Investment in Rosneft Judgement is required in assessing the level of Reviewed the judgement on whether the B P has retained significant influence over control or influence over another entity in group continues to have significant Rosneft throughout 2018 as defined by which the group holds an interest.
BP uses the equity method of accounting for Considered IFRS guidance on evidence its investment in Rosneft and BPs share of participation in policy-making processes.
Rosnefts oil and natural gas reserves is R eceived reports from management which included in the groups estimated net proved assessed the extent of significant influence, reserves of equity-accounted entities.
including BPs participation in decision The equity-accounting treatment of BPs making.
19.75% interest in Rosneft continues to be dependent on the judgement that BP has significant influence over Rosneft.
Derivative financial instruments For its level 3 derivative financial instruments, R eceived a briefing on the groups trading BP has assets and liabilities of $3.6 billion and BP estimates their fair value using internal risks and reviewed the system of risk $3.1 billion respectively recognized on the models due to the absence of quoted market management and controls in place, balance sheet for level 3 derivative financial pricing or other observable, marketincluding those covering the valuation of instruments at 31 December 2018, mainly corroborated data.
level 3 derivative financial instruments, relating to the activities of the integrated using models where observable market supply and trading function IST.
Judgement may also be required to determine pricing is not available.
whether contracts to buy or sell commodities BPs use of internal models to value certain meet the definition of a derivative.
T he committee annually reviews the control of these contracts has been disclosed in process and risks relating to the trading Note 30 in the financial statements.
See Glossary 78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions outcomes in financial reporting Provisions BPs most significant provisions relate to R eceived briefings on decommissioning, D ecommissioning provisions of $13.6 billion decommissioning, environmental remediation environmental, asbestos and litigation were recognized on the balance sheet at and litigation.
provisions, including the requirements, 31 December 2018. governance and controls for the The group holds provisions for the future T he discount rate used by BP to determine development and approval of cost decommissioning of oil and natural gas the balance sheet obligation at the end of estimates and provisions in the financial production facilities and pipelines at the end of 2018 was a nominal rate of 3% based on statements.
Most of these long-dated US government bonds.
decommissioning events are many years in R eviewed the groups discount rates for T he impact of this revised rate has been the future and the exact requirements that will calculating provisions, including the change disclosed.
have to be met when a removal event occurs to use the nominal discount rate i. e. taking are uncertain.
Assumptions are made by BP in account of expected inflation from the relation to settlement dates, technology, legal second quarter of 2018. requirements and discount rates.
The timing and amounts of future cash flows are subject to significant uncertainty and estimation is required in determining the amounts of provisions to be recognized.
Following a regular review of decommissioning cost estimates, from 30 June 2018 the present value of the decommissioning provision was determined by discounting the estimated cash flows expressed in expected future prices, i. e. taking account of expected inflation.
Prior to 30 June 2018, the group estimated future cash flows in real terms.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Accounting for pensions and other postR eviewed the groups assumptions used to The method for determining the groups retirement benefits involves making estimates determine the projected benefit obligation assumptions remained largely unchanged from when measuring the groups pension plan at the year end, including the discount rate, 2017.
The values of these assumptions and a surpluses and deficits.
These estimates rate of inflation, salary growth and mortality sensitivity analysis of the impact of possible require assumptions to be made about levels.
changes on the benefit expense and obligation uncertain events, including discount rates, are provided in Note 24. inflation and life expectancy.
At 31 December 2018, surpluses of $6.0 billion and deficits of $8.4 billion were recognized on the balance sheet in relation to pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
The committee received updates during the year on the audit process, External audit including how the auditor had challenged the groups assumptions on Audit risk these issues.
The external auditor set out its audit strategy for 2018, identifying significant audit risks to be addressed during the course of the audit.
Audit fees These included: The audit committee reviews the fee structure, resourcing and terms of engagement for the external auditor annually: in addition it reviews the The risk of impairment in certain cash-generating units which are non-audit services that the auditor provides to the group on a quarterly particularly sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, in particular basis.
the long-term oil and gas price assumptions.
Fees paid to the external auditor for the year were $42 million 2017 $47 The carrying value of certain exploration and appraisal assets where million, of which 5% was for non-audit assurance work see Financial there could be potential indicators of impairment through licence statements Note 36.
The audit committee is satisfied that this level of expiry and or partner withdrawal.
fee is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided and that an Accounting for structured commodity transactions in the integrated effective audit can be conducted for this fee.
Non-audit or non-audit supply and trading function.
related assurance fees were $2 million 2017 $3 million.
Non-audit or non-audit related services consisted of other assurance services.
Level 3 of derivative financial instruments valuations within the integrated supply and trading function which involve using bespoke valuation models and or unobservable inputs.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 79 Audit effectiveness Auditor appointment and independence The effectiveness, performance and integrity of the external audit The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor process was evaluated through separate surveys completed by each year before making a recommendation to the board.
The committee members and those BP personnel impacted by the audit, committee assesses the independence of the external auditor on an including chief financial officers, controllers, finance managers and ongoing basis and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit individuals responsible for accounting policy and internal controls over partner every five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
No partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
The survey sent to management comprised questions across five main criteria to measure the auditors performance: Non-audit services The audit committee is responsible for BPs policy on non-audit Robustness of the audit process.
services and the approval of non-audit services.
Audit objectivity and Independence and objectivity.
independence is safeguarded through the prohibition of non-audit tax services and the limitation of audit-related work which falls within Quality of delivery.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the Quality of people and service.
auditor may not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, UK Value added advice.
Auditing Practices Board APB and the UK Financial Reporting The 2018 evaluation was the last of EY as the outgoing auditor.
included certain questions about the effectiveness of the transition to The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as the incoming auditor, Deloitte.
The results of the survey indicated that permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external the external auditors performance had remained largely consistent in auditor is considered for permitted non-audit services only when its key areas compared with the previous year.
Areas with high scores and expertise and experience of the company is important.
favourable comments included quality of accounting and auditing judgement and the working relationship with management.
Areas for Approvals for individual engagements of pre-approved permitted improvement were identified but none impacted on the effectiveness services below certain thresholds are delegated to the group controller of the audit.
The results of the questions regarding auditor transition or the chief financial officer.
Any proposed service not included in the indicated that management were confident that Deloitte would be permitted services categories must be approved in advance either by effective in their role.
The results of the survey were discussed with the audit committee chairman or the audit committee before Deloitte for consideration in their 2018 audit approach.
The audit committee, chief financial officer and group controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on The committee held private meetings with the external auditor during audit-related and non-audit services, including whether the necessary the year and the committee chair met separately with the external pre-approvals have been obtained.
The categories of permitted and auditor and group head of audit at least quarterly.
pre-approved services are outlined in Principal accountants fees and The effectiveness of the external auditor is evaluated by the audit services on page 301.
The committees policies were updated in 2018 committee.
The committee assessed the new auditors approach to to clarify the engagement of the incoming auditor, Deloitte, and the providing audit services as the team undertook its first audit.
On the outgoing auditor and auditor of Rosneft EY.
basis of such assessment, the committee concluded that the audit team was providing the required quality in relation to the provision of the Committee evaluation services.
The audit team had shown the necessary commitment and The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance ability to provide the services together with a demonstrable depth of and effectiveness.
knowledge, robustness, independence and objectivity as well as an appreciation of complex issues.
The team had posed constructive 2018 evaluation challenge to management where appropriate.
For 2018, an external assessment was used to evaluate the work of the committee as part of a wider review of the operation of the board as a Audit transition whole.
The review concluded that it had performed effectively.
Deloitte was appointed for the statutory audit, with effect from 2018 following a tender process in 2016.
The committee monitored the Areas of focus for 2019 include succession planning for membership of transition of BPs statutory auditor from EY to Deloitte.
This included: the committee, a site visit to global business services Kuala Lumpur and integrated supply and trading Singapore and a further review of capital Receiving reports from the audit transition team, including an spending.
overview of operational activities and the termination of non-audit services being provided by Deloitte to BP which would be prohibited when Deloitte became the groups statutory auditor.
This included Deloitte stepping down as independent adviser to BPs remuneration committee.
Requiring management to report to the committee on any services undertaken by the statutory auditor in line with the groups policies relating to non-audit services.
Requiring confirmation of Deloittes compliance with BPs independence and ethics and compliance rules.
Deloitte confirmed its independence to the committee in October 2017.
EY resigned on 29 March 2018 following completion of the 2017 audit.
The committee also received reports from the external auditors transition team in April, May and July 2018 and an update to their plan in December 2018.
80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Role of the committee The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial risk.
This includes monitoring the management of personal and process safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and mitigate such non-financial risks are appropriate in their design and effective in their implementation.
Key responsibilities The committee receives specific reports from the business segments as well as cross-business information from the functions.
These include, but are not limited to, the safety and operational risk function, group audit, group ethics and compliance, business integrity and group security.
The SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel it requires on an unrestricted basis.
Safety, ethics and environment The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through their chairs assurance committee SEEAC and secretaries, to ensure that agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
At every site visit, we engage with the local Members leadership who help to embed a culture Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 and chair focused on operational risk mitigation.
since May 2016 Nils Andersen Member since December 2018 Paul Anderson Member since February 2010: resigned May 2018 Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 Chairmans introduction Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 The committees focus continued to be on working with executive management to drive safe, ethical and reliable operations.
It Melody Meyer Member since May 2017 continued to provide constructive challenge as part of its review of John Sawers Member since July 2015 the executives management of the highest priority non-financial group risks assigned to SEEAC.
The risks under our remit remained Meetings and attendance the same as for 2017: marine, wells, pipelines, explosion or release at facilities, major security incidents and cyber security in the process There were six committee meetings in 2018.
All directors attended control network.
The committee receives reports on each of these every meeting for which they were eligible, apart from Alan risks and monitors their management and mitigation.
Boeckmann who missed two meetings due to unforeseen personal circumstances.
Following publication of the companys second Modern Slavery Act MSA statement in 2018, the committee again reviewed In addition to the committee members, all SEEAC meetings were related work practices in BP and will continue to review progress in attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for developing and embedding those practices.
In 2018 it also reviewed safety and operational risk S&OR and the head of group audit or his the BP Sustainability Report 2017. delegate.
The external auditor attended some of the meetings and has access to the chair and secretary to the committee as required.
The The committee made two site visits in the year see page 73.
In July group general counsel and group ethics and compliance officer also members of the committee visited the Thunder Horse platform in the attended some of the meetings.
At the conclusion of each meeting the Gulf of Mexico, and in September members visited Cooper River committee scheduled private sessions for the committee members petrochemicals plant in South Carolina.
The level of access into the only, without the presence of executive management, to discuss any operations on such visits gives the directors first hand and direct issues arising and the quality of the meeting.
The group chief executive insight.
This framework provides an opportunity for meaningful and receives invitations to join the private meetings on an ad hoc basis and open dialogue with the local site teams, allowing the committee to at least once a year the head of group audit and at least twice a year the better fulfil its obligations.
group ethics and compliance officer are invited to a private meeting In May 2018, Paul Anderson retired from the board and the with the committee.
In preparation for my stepping down from the BP board at the annual general meeting in May 2019, Nils Andersen, who was appointed to the committee in December 2018, will assume the role of the chair of SEEAC from April 2019.
Alan Boeckmann Committee chair BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 81 Activities during the year Committee evaluation In 2018, the committee examined its performance and effectiveness S ystem of internal control and risk management through an externally facilitated evaluation which included individual interviews.
Discussion focused on the responsibilities of the committee, The review of operational risk and compliance officer and the group the balance of skills and experience among its members, the quality and performance forms a large part of auditor met in private with the timeliness of information the committee receives, the level of challenge the committees agenda.
chairman and other members of between committee members and management and how well the the committee over the course of committee communicates its activities and findings to the board to both Group audit provided quarterly the year.
During the year the inform and drive discussion.
reports on their assurance work committee received separate and their annual review of the The evaluation results continued to be positive.
Committee members reports on the companys system of internal control and risk considered that they continued to possess the right mix of skills and management of risks relating to: management.
background, had an appropriate level of support and received open and Marine.
The committee agreed to The committee also received Wells.
review its remit in 2019. regular reports from the group Pipelines.
chief executive and vice president Site visits remained an important element of the committees work, Explosion or release for S&OR on operational risk, acknowledged through the responses in the evaluation process.
including regular reports prepared gave members the opportunity to examine and witness risk Major security incidents.
on the groups health, safety and management processes embedded in businesses and facilities, Cyber security process environmental performance and including the right management culture.
Joint meetings between the control networks.
These SEEAC and the audit committee were considered important in included meeting-by-meeting The committee reviewed these reviewing and gaining assurance around financial and operational risks measures of personal and process risks and their management and where there was overlap between the committees, particularly in safety, environmental and mitigation in depth with relevant relation to ethics and compliance see below.
regulatory compliance, security executive management.
and cyber risk analysis, as well as quarterly reports from group audit.
In addition, the group ethics and Site visits In July members of the visited the petrochemicals plant, committee, and other directors, Cooper River, in South Carolina.
visited the Houston office and During the visit, directors were went offshore to Thunder Horse able to discuss business in the Gulf of Mexico.
The continuity planning and Houston visit included time with emergency response which had various teams understanding the been in effect just prior to the effects of Hurricane Harvey, how visit as a result of Hurricane central office-based functions Florence.
For all visits, committee support the offshore community members and other directors and other group monitoring received briefings on operations, teams.
In preparation for the the status of conformance with offshore visit to Thunder Horse BPs operating management the directors met with the Gulf of system, key business and Mexico leadership.
Offshore, operational risks and risk there was a full tour of the asset management and mitigation.
Joint meetings of the audit and safety, ethics and including control room, topsides Committee members reported environment assurance committees and drilling rig and plenty of back in detail about each visit to The audit committee and SEEAC hold joint meetings on a quarterly opportunity was provided to the committee and subsequently basis to simplify reporting of key issues that are within the remit converse with employees on the to the board.
See page 73 for of both committees and to make more effective use of the rig.
In September, committee further details.
Each committee retains full discretion to require members, and other directors, a full presentation and discussion on any joint meeting topic at their respective meeting if deemed appropriate.
The committees jointly met four times in 2018, with the chairmanship of the meetings Corporate reporting alternating between the chairman of the audit committee and chairman of the SEEAC.
Topics discussed at the joint meetings The committee was responsible worked with the external auditor were the quarterly ethics and compliance reports including for the overview of the BP with respect to their assurance significant investigations and allegations and the 2019 forward Sustainability Report 2017.
programmes for the group audit and ethics and compliance committee reviewed content and functions.
82 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Role of the committee The role of the committee is to determine and recommend to the board the remuneration policy for the chairman and executive directors.
In determining the policy, the committee takes into account various factors, including structuring the policy to promote the long-term success of the company and linking reward to business performance.
The committee recognizes the remuneration principles applicable to all employees below board level.
Key responsibilities Recommend to the board the remuneration principles and policy for the chairman and the executive directors while considering policies for employees below the board.
Determine the terms of engagement, remuneration, benefits and Remuneration committee termination of employment for the chairman and the executive directors, executive team and the company secretary in accordance with the policy.
Review the relevant remuneration principles and policies for employees below the executive team.
Prepare the annual remuneration report to shareholders to show how Chairs introduction the policy has been implemented.
As the new committee chair, I took the opportunity in the autumn to Approve the principles of any equity plan that requires shareholder engage with some of our institutional shareholders.
governance landscape, it has been important to ensure our stakeholders continue to be heard.
Ensure termination terms and payments to executive directors and the executive team are fair.
We have reviewed the responsibilities of the committee and have extended the scope to include oversight of remuneration below board Approve changes to the design of remuneration for BP group leaders, level.
as proposed by the group chief executive.
We have continued to operate under the policy approved by Receive, and take into account as appropriate, regular updates on shareholders in 2017.
Our focus for 2019 will of course be the workforce views and engagement initiatives related to remuneration.
preparation of a new Policy for approval by shareholders at the 2020 Ensure insight from data sources on pay ratio, gender pay gap and AGM.
Pamela Daley has joined the remuneration committee from other workforce remuneration outcomes are considered as 1 January 2019.
We welcome Pamela to the committee and look appropriate.
forward to her valuable contribution.
Maintain appropriate dialogue with shareholders on remuneration  LLP has continued as our independent matters.
adviser following their appointment in 2017.
PwC has other engagements with the company to provide certain services none of Monitor the alignment of incentives and remuneration for all which are deemed material in this context.
employees below the executive team with the expected values and behaviours.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Committee chair Engage independent consultants or other advisers as the committee may from time to time deem necessary, at the expense of the company.
Members Paula Reynolds Member since September 2017 and chair since May 2018 Alan Boeckmann Member since May 2015 Pamela Daley Member since January 2019 Ian Davis Member since July 2010 Ann Dowling Member since July 2012 and chair since May 2015: resigned May 2018 Brendan Nelson Member since May 2017 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 83 Meetings and attendance The chairman and the group chief executive attend meetings of the committee except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
The group chief executive is consulted on the remuneration of the chief financial officer, the executive team and more broadly on remuneration across the wider employee population.
Both the group chief executive and chief financial officer are consulted on matters relating to the groups performance.
The group human resources director attends meetings and other executives may attend where necessary.
The committee consults other board committees on the groups performance and on issues relating to the exercise of judgement or discretion.
The committee met seven times during the year.
All directors attended each meeting that they were eligible to attend, either in person or by Geopolitical committee telephone, except Alan Boeckmann who was not able to attend two meetings due to unforeseen personal circumstances.
Activities during the year Chairmans introduction In the period before the 2018 AGM, the committee focused on the I am pleased to report on the work of the geopolitical committee in outcomes for 2017.
This involved reviewing directors salaries and the 2018, which continued to develop and evolve during the year.
During groups performance outcome which in turn determined the annual 2018 I also joined discussions of the international advisory board.
bonus and the performance share plan.
Paul Anderson stood down in May 2018.
I want to thank Paul for his PwC has continued as independent adviser during 2018.
We welcomed Nils Andersen to the committee continued to monitor developments in potential regulation and legislation in August 2018 and his experience is invaluable given he was CEO of and resulting implications.
It also considered the companys disclosure major companies, such as Carlsberg and Mrsk, which had on the UK gender pay gap.
operations in many jurisdictions with significant political risk In each of its meetings, the committee focused on the overall quantum considerations.
Other board members joined our meetings from time of executive director remuneration and its alignment to the broader to time.
It has sought to reflect the views of Sir John Sawers shareholders and the broader societal context in its decisions.
Committee chair Shareholder engagement There was engagement with shareholders and proxy voting agencies ahead of the 2018 AGM, carried out by the chair of the committee, the Role of the committee chairman and company secretary as required.
The new committee chair The committee monitors the companys identification and management continued engagement throughout the year, primarily with larger of geopolitical risk.
shareholders and representative bodies, in light of evolving regulation and related remuneration issues.
Key responsibilities Monitor the companys identification and management of major and Committee evaluation correlated geopolitical risk and consider reputational as well as An externally facilitated evaluation was undertaken to examine the financial consequences: committees performance in 2018.
The evaluation concluded that Major geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, the committee had worked well and had responded to the previous economic or political events that occur in countries where BP has evaluation by increasing its remit to take on oversight of material investments.
Correlated geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, Focus areas for 2019 include responding to regulation and economic or political events that occur in countries where BP may governance reform and planning for the new remuneration policy or may not have a presence but that can lead to global political to be brought to shareholders for approval in 2020.
to stay focused on external developments and emerging best practice and improving remuneration reporting remained.
See Review BPs activities in the context of political and economic page 87 for the Directors remuneration report.
developments on a regional basis and advise the board on these elements in its consideration of BPs strategy and the annual plan.
84 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Members John Sawers Member since September 2015 and chair since April 2016 Nils Andersen Member since August 2018 Paul Anderson Member since September 2015: resigned May 2018 Frank Bowman Member since September 2015 Ian Davis Member since September 2016 Melody Meyer Member since May 2017 Meetings and attendance The chairman and group chief executive regularly attend committee Chairmans and nomination meetings.
The executive vice president, regions and the vice president, government and political affairs attend meetings as required.
and governance committees The committee met four times during the year.
All directors attended each meeting that they were eligible to attend.
Activities during the year Chairmans introduction The committee developed and broadened its work over the year.
It The chairmans and the nomination and governance committees were discussed BPs involvement in the key countries where it has existing actively involved in the evolution of the board in 2018.
In October, investments or is considering investment in detail.
These included the Carl-Henric Svanberg stood down as chairman of both committees US, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, India and China.
and I pay tribute to his exceptional service since 2010.
The board expanded the nomination committees remit in September 2018 to help It considered broader policy issues such as the US domestic and foreign fulfil requirements provided in the new UK Corporate Governance Code policy and the political and economic impact of a low oil price on and it was re-named the nomination and governance committee.
continues to focus on board renewal and diversity as well as the talent in We reviewed the geopolitical background to BPs global investments the senior levels of executive management and development of future and the politics around climate change.
Helge Lund Committee evaluation Chair of the committees The committee reviewed its performance through feedback from the external evaluation of its work and of the work of the board as a whole.
The evaluation concluded that the committee was working well and Chairmans committee considering the right issues.
The committee currently meets four times a year and is considering additional meetings.
Role of the committee The committee and board felt that there should be greater integration To provide a forum for matters to be discussed by the non-executive between the work of the board, the committee and the international directors.
This is being further considered during 2019.
Key responsibilities Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief executive.
Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
Review the systems for senior executive development and determine succession plans for the group chief executive, executive directors and other senior members of executive management.
Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by non-executive directors.
Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Members The committee comprises all non-executive directors.
Directors join the committee immediately on their appointment to the board.
The group chief executive attends meetings of the committee when requested.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 85 Meetings and attendance Nomination and governance committee The committee met six times in 2018.
All directors attended all the Role of the committee meetings for which they were eligible, except that Nils Andersen was The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for excused from two meetings due to a potential conflict of interest and directors and the company secretary and oversees corporate Alan Boeckmann missed two meetings due to unforeseen personal governance matters for the group.
Bob Dudley and Brian Gilvary joined meetings where the chairmans Key responsibilities succession was discussed.
Matters relating to the business of the Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or nomination and governance committee were also discussed at some reappointment as directors.
Review the outside directorships commitments of the NEDs.
Activities during the year Review the mix of knowledge, skills experience and diversity of the Evaluated the performance of the chairman and the group chief Board to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as Considered the composition of and the succession plans for the company secretary.
Review developments in law, regulation and best practice relating to Discussed the strategy options for the company, including the corporate governance and make recommendations to the board on transition to a lower carbon future.
appropriate actions to allow compliance.
Committee evaluation Members The committee continues to work well.
The balance of skills and experience amongst its non-executive director membership ensures it is Helge Lund Member since July 2018 and chair since best able to support and challenge the company as it implements its September 2018 strategy.
Carl-Henric Member since September 2009 and chair Svanberg since January 2010: resigned as chair September 2018 and from committee December 2018 Alan Boeckmann Member since April 2016 Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Ann Dowling Member since May 2015 and resigned May 2018 Brendan Nelson Member since September 2018 Paula Reynolds Member since May 2018 John Sawers Member since April 2016 Meetings and attendance The committee met three times in 2018.
During the second half of the year, matters relating to the appointment of new directors were considered jointly with the chairmans committee.
All directors attended each meeting that they were eligible to attend, except Paula Reynolds due to pre-existing external commitments.
Activities during the year The committee continued to monitor the composition and skills of the board.
The committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the boards composition is strong and diverse.
During the year, it was agreed that the committee would assume oversight of governance.
Committee evaluation Following the board evaluation, it was agreed that the committee would also focus on governance requirements arising from the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
86 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
