Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St Johns Primary comes to BrewinDolphin In an initiative with Enabling Enterprise to introduce children to key aspects of the world of work, 30 students from St Johns Primary in Ealing visited our Smithfield, London, headquarters in March.
According to their teacher, The students had a brilliant time thanks to the fantastic volunteers and fast-paced, engaging content.
Some students would never previously have stood up and spoken in front of a room full of people, but today they alldid.
Assistant Head Teacher, Jo Reed, echoed these sentiments, highlighting how the visit supported work atschool.
On the trip, students were able to solve real-life problems and practise skills in a professional environment.
There was a noticeable improvement in their confidence particularly when presenting back to their classmates and professionals from Brewin Dolphin.
Our volunteers were equally impressed by the day and noted that the skills development of the children was impressive.
Non-financial information statement The following section summarises the key areas of disclosure in this Annual Report required by the Non-Financial ReportingDirective.
All policies are reviewed periodically by the appropriate committee and updated where necessary to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
Business model, policies, principal risks andnonEnvironmental, social and employee relatedmatters financial KPIs As set out in the Corporate Responsibility section, our impact onthe environment is largely through UK-based travel and the The Group uses non-financial information in all aspects of its consumption of resources and emissions at the buildings in our business, from development of its business model and strategy branch network.
Further details of our policies and initiatives are to reviewing and measuring the principal risks and the performance onpage 41.
The Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions report can of the business.
Further detail in relation to the business model and details The Group does not have specific policies in relation to social of principal risks start on pages 14 and 28 respectively.
However, as detailed on the previous two pages, non-financial KPIs relate to client satisfaction and employee we strive to make meaningful contributions to the local engagement, more information can be found on pages 26 and 27. communities in which we operate.
The Risk Committee and Audit Committee consider non-financial The Group values its people and their wellbeing.
It is strongly matters as a matter of routine: their reports can be found on pages committed to the engagement, development and recognition 53 and 55 respectively.
of itsemployees and is mindful of the impact of culture.
Human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery related Further details on HR policies and employee related outcomes can be found on pages 39 and 40. matters Our exposure to human rights issues is limited, so we do not have Diversity policy and approach specific policies for this.
We take a zero tolerance stance on The Board believes providing an inclusive and supportive slavery and human trafficking within our workforce and supply environment allows the Group to benefit from the variety chain and a rigorous vendor due diligence is completed by all of experience, backgrounds and viewpoints that a diverse suppliers.
The Groups Human Rights and Trafficking Statement workforce can bring.
For more detail of the Groups initiatives can be found on our website.
in relation to diversity, see pages 39 and 40.
The Group has a The Group operates anti-bribery policies and training programmes Diversity Policy and a Diversity and Inclusion Committee with four which are in full compliance with the UK Bribery Act and extend to distinct objectives, further details can be found on page 51. all of our business operations.
We are committed to conducting our operations free from anti-bribery and corruption.
The Group has a gifts and hospitality policy and associated processes to raise awareness of corruption.
We have a whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report matters of significant concern to the Chair of the Audit Committee.
