OUR MARKET Challenges and opportunities Several forces societal, economic, regulatory and technological continue to create new opportunities and challenges in every part of the financial services industry.
Here we explain how our response to these forces is enabling us to sharpen our focus on growth.
Societal change Economic environment Regulatory developments Key messages Key messages Key messages How people save and invest to meet Economic forces shape the The aftermath of the global financial their needs is directly affected by investment environment and crisis continues to influence the societal influences.
Factors range from changing The environment is influenced by As regulators focus on protecting Government policy to evolving national and world events that are consumers, legislation is becoming consumer preferences.
impossible to control, such as Brexit.
Market challenges Market challenges Market challenges The Governments long-term social care In the UK, more than a decade of low The need to comply with changing policies continue to place less emphasis on interest rates has created challenges regulation means companies face state provision, and employers continue to forpeople seeking a low-risk means of significant cost and resource challenges withdraw from final salary pension maintaining and growing their capital.
inareas including information technology, schemes, making people more self-reliant Geopolitical uncertainties are also highly compliance and operations.
Following the in planning for their long-term needs.
Heightened risk and volatility introduction of MiFID II, clients can more have generated substantial personal and canhave negative short-term impacts on easily view the cost of the services they familial wealth that they wish to protect and business and stock-market performance.
In addition, pension freedom grow.
Individuals are increasingly seeking The UK wealth management industry is rulesand other changes are leading outcome-oriented solutions that help them highly fragmented and constantly changing, moreindividuals to seek professional fulfil their personal ambitions.
with former participants in the financial financial advice.
services sector returning to the Our response Our response advice market.
Greater self-reliance has created the We have the scale needed to absorb costs Our response opportunity for Brewin Dolphin to help and allocate resources appropriately, as growing numbers of individuals viaour Our ability to adapt to changing client well as the expertise to adapt efficiently to advice-led, long-term relationship and needs and market environments helps new regulation.
We can clearly demonstrate needs-based propositions.
We design usto optimise investment performance.
the value of our advice-led proposition and tailored solutions, based on in-depth Wehave broadened the range of clients provide transparent pricing.
In addition, knowledge and understanding of wecan help in this area with the launch wherever possible, we continue to leverage individualclient needs.
ofour new 1762 from Brewin Dolphin and our scale with asset managers to reduce WealthPilot services see page 21.
At the the cost of investments within our client Thefullybespoke, advice-led wealth same time, we continue to plan for portfolios: for instance, the transition of our management service we offer enables us the long-term.
MPS portfolios into manager of manager totake advantage of the trend towards funds see page 22. outcome-oriented solutions.
Critically, our Within the fragmented UK investment continued focus on addressing individual environment, Brewin Dolphins trusted We provide comprehensive training client needs ensures that our offering brand and established reputation for to ensure our people provide regulationremains relevant over the long term.
delivering sound advice and consistent compliant advice to our clients performance enable us to sustain long-term see page 40. client relationships.
During 2018, this approach enabled us to continue to grow our funds see page 35.
Brewin Dolphin 16 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Technological advances How we stand amongst our Key messages UK wealth management peers Technology is a differentiator that can radically affect a companys service to clients.
We are using technology to improve the efficiency and ease with which we interact with clients.
Market challenges New technology and business models can be powerful enablers but also a threat, particularly in financial services where they have the potential to transformmany aspects of the wealthmanagement industry.
Our response Our overriding emphasis on client relationships makes enhanced communication the most important role for technology as we aim increasingly to complement face-to-face client contact 42.8bn with digital alternatives.
As increasing Brewin Dolphin numbers of people use digital channels to communicate and engage, we have embedded digital solutions that increase Funds bn client choice to complement our branch network.
St Jamess Place 100.6 We have introduced a new technology- 1 Schroders 46.8 based flexible working infrastructure 2 Quilter Cheviot 44.3 thatensures our people can work as effectively from home or on the move Brewin Dolphin 42.8 see page 23.
3 Rathbones 41.3 4 Investec Wealth & Investment 39.5 Charles Stanley 25.0 Tilney Bestinvest 23.0 Smith and Williamson 19.5 Brooks Macdonald 12.8 Close Brothers Asset Management 11.9 JM Finn 9.3 1.
Latest published annual financial or interim results where available, otherwise per the entitys website as at 22 November 2018.
