BUSINESS MODEL Designed for long-term growth Resources and relationships Services We actively engage with our Innovation of services and strong client relationships are stakeholders throughout our central to our strategy.
Employees Services that meet our clients needs Our strength is in our people, both clientAdvice Investment solutions facing colleagues and those who provide Ourpeople devote time toestablishing We are independent, which means support to them.
We have a strong strongclient relationships based on wecanlook across a wide range of commitment to development and we use a full understanding of each clients financialproducts to choose the best initiatives such as the employee engagement circumstances.
This enables us to build andmost appropriate options fromthe survey to understand what is working well and atailored financialsolution.
See Our People page 39 for more detail.
The tailored financialsolution may include Our direct portfolios and our model our integrated wealth management portfolio services are underpinned by service, financial planning or our ourin-house research as well asour investment solutions, depending on client Group-wide asset allocation framework.
Clients needs and how theyaccess ourservices.
We help to protect and grow the wealth of ourclients and maintaining close personal relationships with them is key toourbusiness.
See page 13 for more information on Our Services.
We undertake annual client surveys to seek clientviews.
Delivered by our distribution model Investors We engage with our shareholders and Channel Available to Services potential investors at events such as the Companys AGM and roadshows.
Wealth Management Suppliers We actively engage with our suppliers which Financial ensures commitment and transparency Direct Planning between allparties.
Private individuals, via our network of 30 charities and offices: referrals from professional service firms corporates Investment Regulators and online Management We maintain a regular dialogue with regulatory bodies and can therefore adapt to the changing regulatory landscape and identify Brewin Portfolio where these changes can provide Service BPS opportunities forthebusiness.
Investment Management Indirect Intermediaries via our network of 30 offices Managed Portfolio Service MPS Brewin Dolphin 14 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Creating value Putting value to use The creation of value for our clients is The value we create generates additional inextricably linked to our business interests.
capacity for us to invest further in our business to deliver long-term growth.
For clients Investments Investments are made in both technology and premises to support Clients with advice the Groups growth strategy.
Investment priorities are determined Clients with advice are able to access wealth management, in line with strategic plans and goals.
Investment requirements may investment management and financial planning services.
We help include elevated operational expenditure as well as capital clients achieve their long-term goals by managing their wealth.
expenditure for distinct periods of time to deliver our long-term Each client is different so we assess their individual needs and growth strategy.
We guide them through todays complex financial services environment, helping them nurture See page 23 for more information.
Clients without advice Acquisitions BPSgives clients a low-cost alternative to the full wealth We monitor the market for potential inorganic growth opportunities management service whilst still enablingthem to benefit from and in considering such opportunities we are mindful of the theresearch and investment expertise of Brewin Dolphin.
We are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities where they are strategically aligned.
Intermediaries Both MPS and discretionary investment management service allowintermediaries to effectively outsource the investment Training and development of our people management of their clients portfolios whilst retaining the full client relationship.
Our national business development team and network Investment here ensures that we offer the best advice to clients, ofoffices mean we can support advisers and their clients faceoffer rewarding careers to our people and continue to attract to-face across the UK.
See page 40 for more information.
For Brewin Dolphin We earn income from services basedon the amount of funds Capital retention wemanage, fees charged for financial planning orthe investment Capital is retained for both regulatory requirements and business we transact on behalf of our clients.
approach to client service combined with the expertise of ourprofessionally qualified and experienced staff drives the value ofour services and helps us earn the trust of clients and create loyal client relationships.
This creates value through brand Returns to shareholders enhancement and the generation ofnew leads via referrals.
The Group has a progressive dividend policy.
Ourclient relationships are a key source of long-term value fortheGroup.
See pages 19 and 38 for further information.
Value creation is underpinned Our business model is underpinned by: by our 8 key enablers Our Strategy page 24.
Our high standards of corporate governance page 46.
Our culture and values page 22.
