BOARD OF DIRECTORS A leadership team creating shareholder value Board of Directors Simonetta Rigo, David Nicol, Kath Cates, Ian Dewar, Paul Wilson, Caroline Taylor, Simon Miller, Michael Kellard Length of tenure Balance of Executive and Board diversity Committee Non-Executive Directors Membership from Over 6 years Male 1October 2018 2 62.5% 1 3-6 years Female A Audit Committee 1 4 37.5% N Nominations Committee 0-3 years R Remuneration Committee 2 RK Risk Committee 6 Denotes Chairman of Committee Chairman Executive Independent Non-Executive Brewin Dolphin 44 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information N RK A N A R N A Simon Miller Kath Cates Michael Kellard Caroline Taylor Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Chairman March Appointed: December 2014, Appointed: December2017.
Appointed: May 2014, 2013, Chair of the Nomination Chair of the Risk Committee Chair of Remuneration Key areas of experience: Committee, Deputy Chairman September 2015 and Senior Committee October 2018.
Financial services, wealth and Senior Independent Independent Director at the management, pensions and Key areas of experience: Director 2012.
life sector, sales and digital Remuneration, financial Key areas of experience: Key areas of experience: financial service platforms.
services, investment An Independent Non-Executive Risk, international financial management, operations Current external Director with a wide range services, operations, andcompliance.
appointments: Member of of experience in the financial corporate governance, Scottish Future Growth Council.
Current external services sector, including investment management appointments: Non-executive wealth management and andinsurance.
Previous experience: CEO director of Ecclesiastical investment management.
of AXA Wealth Management, Current external Insurance Office PLC, CEO of Winterthur Life and Current external appointments: Non-executive Ecclesiastical Insurance Group CEO and sales director and appointments: Chairman director and Chairof the PLC and Floors Castle Outdoor distribution director for the of Blackrock North American remuneration committee for EventsLimited.
Life and Pensions division Income Trust PLC, Chairman of RSAInsurance Group plc, of Norwich Union.
Previous experience: Director JPMorgan Global Convertibles non-executive director of of Goldman Sachs Asset Income Fund and nonThreadneedle Investment RK Simonetta Rigo MBA Management International and executive director of STV Services Limited and nonNon-Executive Director director of GS Luxembourg and Group PLC.
executive director Threadneedle Dublin Mutual Funds.
Asset Management Holdings Previous experience: Called Limited and Threadneedle RK N Key areas of experience: Paul Wilson MBA to the Bar and subsequently Pensions Limited.
Financial services, marketing, Non-Executive Director worked for Lazard Brothers product, digital branding, and County NatWest.
Previous experience: Chief Appointed: December 2013. customer relationships operating officer in wholesale andstrategy.
Key areas of experience: David Nicol CA, Chartered FCSI banking for Standard Chartered Financial services, Executive Director Bank and spent 22 years in Current external insurance, and international various roles at UBS, including Appointed: Chief Executive appointments: Advisory Board development NGOs.
March 2013, Non-Executive Membership at Surrey Director March 2012. Business School.
Current external A RK R Ian Dewar FCA appointments: CEO of the Key areas of experience: Non-Executive Director Previous experience: SVP World Platinum Investment Finance, strategy, financial Global Brand, Marketing and Appointed: November 2013, Council, Senior independent services, operations and Customer Engagement at Chairman of Audit Committee director of AXA XL UK investment management.
Western Union and board March 2014.
Insurance Companies, Director member at Western Union Current external of Unigestion Group Geneva, Key areas of experience: Foundation.
Held positions at appointments: Chairman of Chair of Unigestion UK Limited Finance, financial services, Bupa International, American the appointment committee and Chairman of Action Against audit, risk management and Express and McKinsey.
She of the Hermes Property Unit Hunger UK.
Trust and Trustee of the Previous experience: Senior Urology Foundation.
Current external partner at Bain & Company.
appointments: Non-executive Previous experience: Director He holds an MBA from Harvard director of Manchester Building and Chief Admin Officer of Business School.
Society, non-executive director Morgan Stanley International Arbuthnot Banking Group PLC PLC, non-executive director of and non-executive director The Euroclear plc, Board member Aldenham Foundation.
of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments.
Previous experience: Partner Member of Council of ICAS.
of KPMG and non-executive Qualified as achartered trustee ofacharity.
