OUR STRATEGY From strengthening to expanding Our strategy for growth is designed to enable us to realise our vision of becoming the UKs leading provider of personalised wealth and investment management services, delivering a compelling client proposition, rewarding careers and sustainable shareholder returns.
RG Revenue growth: Grow the business in both absolute and market share terms, by increasing the number of clients and the proportion of their wealth that we manage.
What we said we would do 2018 progress Future focus Develop an advice-led proposition Launched 1762 from Brewin Dolphin, Continue development and roll-out forclients with sophisticated and anadvice-led proposition for clients of1762 from Brewin Dolphin complex needs.
needs, in a new office in Londons Continue development of Maintain focus on innovation.
Continue to develop and grow Carried out in-depth research into Further segment of clients to increase depthand number of intermediary needs and expectations.
Achieved strong intermediary channel Continue evolution of focused Continue investment in client-facing growth across both our bespoke marketing strategy.
discretionary service and the Managed Continue investment in our Financial Further investment in technology Portfolio Service.
tostreamline client communication Discretionary net organic fund inflows andacquisition.
Rollout of WealthPilot, our low-cost of 2.3 billion.
Continue investment in developing Achieved discretionary net new funds employee expertise and businessgrowth rate of 6.8%, ahead of our development capabilities.
Refreshed website with simpler design to make it easier for potential clients to understand how we can help them.
Second annual intake of trainees into our Financial Planning Academy.
Extended WealthPilot into Manchester andEdinburgh.
IE Improved efficiency: Maintain an efficient and scalable operating model enabling investment, developing greater productivity and sustaining competitive pricing.
What we said we would do 2018 progress Future focus Increase efficiency and reduce Launched MyBrewin portal, Identify vendor and progress towards coststhrough continued investment allowingclients to view portfolios replacement of our core custody and intechnology.
and valuations online, both reducing settlement system.
the cost of client communication and Manage development and increasing efficiency.
Refresh of workspace and communications technology drove increased employee satisfaction and aided efficient working practices.
Prepared the way to commission new Client Management System CMS, with the aim of .
Brewin Dolphin 24 Annual Report 2018 s d e e n s t n e i l Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information c r y u c o n e d i DG c n D i i f a f v e i t d d e e e k n v r d o a r p m g r m o t I e w g t IE h r a t r 2.3bn 23.6% 1 Net discretionary Adjusted PBT margin fund flows Focus on growth 75.6% 234% Payout ratio Capital adequacy ratio 1.
See page 34 for an explanation of adjusted measures.
CS Capital sufficiency: Maintain sufficient capital to maximise opportunities and cover risks.
What we said we would do 2018 progress Future focus From a position of strength, continueto Maintained sufficient capital to enable Continue to maintain capital at maintain capital at a levelthat enables investment opportunities, reduce risk a levelthat enables investment investment in emerging opportunities.
and provide cover during periods in  from ofuncertainty.
apositionofstrength in line withourDividend Policy.
Continued to scan the industry for appropriate investment opportunities offering the right cultural match and opportunities to accelerate growth.
DG Dividend growth: Grow our dividend in line with earnings.
What we said we would do 2018 progress Future focus Maintain policy of target payment of Dividend payout ratio of 75.6% Continue policy of target payment of 60%to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS ofadjusted diluted EPS.
60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS toensure our dividend grows in line toensure we grow our dividend in line withearnings.
Performance against strategy is a factor in remuneration decision making, see page 65.
For measurement of progress, see our KPIs on page 26.
For discussion on priorities, see the Chief Executives Review on page 20.
For more information regarding our strategic objectives and risk, see page 28.
For more information on our dividend policy, see pages 19 and 38.
