Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information OUR INVESTMENT PROPOSITION We are a leading UK wealth manager with a clear focus on growth Brewin Dolphin is The future direction Our brand, scale We are making good recognised and known ofour market place andinvestment in progress with our for trusted advice and ispositive ourpeople enable strategy and investing investment expertise ustostand out forthe future As the role of the State diminishes, people need During our long history as a We are one of the largest We have significantly increasingly to take respected provider of highwealth management strengthened our operations responsibility for their financial quality financial services to companiesin the UK.
We and improved our operational affairs such as savings, clients, we have earned a attract, develop and retain efficiency in recent years.
Now investments, and planning for reputation for integrity and thebest talent to strengthen we are progressing with our retirement and long-term care.
trustworthiness that stands existing relationships, win new strategy for growth, constantly Demand for financial advisory usin good stead for the future.
clients and help us build an investing to increase the services and investment Wecontinue to build on this even stronger organisation.
number of clients we serve management is growing as with our significant investment andthe proportion of their aresult, creating good in financial planning capability.
long-term prospects for continued growth.
See page 21 for See page 16 for See page 39 for See page 24 for more information.
Discretionary funds bn Net flows Net flows 2.3bn 40 Net flows 2.3bn 1.1bn 30 Indirect 20 Direct 10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Brewin Dolphin 3 www.
co. uk OUR PRESENCE At Brewin Dolphin, we aim to be available for our clients, be it face to face, by phone or online.
We are always there for ourclients Our network of 30 offices across the UK, Channel Islands and the Republic ofIreland ensures we have a physical presence in the local communities where our clients live and work.
Enabling our clients to contact us whenever and wherever they want ishelping us grow ourclient base andthe proportion of theirwealth wemanage for them.
Brewin Dolphin 4 Annual Report 2018 Brewin Dolphin 5 www.
co. uk OUR PEOPLE We invest significant resources in ensuring we have an engaged, diverse and highly skilled workforce to help our clients fulfil their individual plans and ambitions.
Client-focused leadership Having people at every level of the organisation who understand and respond to the needs of our clients informs our strategy for growth.
We include client-facing specialists at the highest levels of executive management to ensure client needs are an important part of our strategic thinking, with their requirements represented.
Investing in talent We constantly seek to attract, develop and retain the very best people in our industry.
Our culture and reputation attract the committed people we want, individuals who are determined to provide high-quality advice and continuously do more for clients.
Weenable them to fulfil their potential and their purpose, rewarding them and encouraging them tostay with us for the long term.
Brewin Dolphin 6 Annual Report 2018 Brewin Dolphin 7 www.
co. uk OUR SERVICES By constantly evolving our services to improve the value we deliver to clients, we aimto strengthen our position in the UKs wealth management sector.
An evolving proposition based on trust Clients needs evolve over time, influenced by changing circumstances and shifting economic trends.
We draw on our business model, market-leading research and innovative culture to ensure our advice is relevant and tailored to their needs.
That is how we earn and preserve our clients trust.
By adding new services like 1762 from Brewin Dolphin and WealthPilot see page20, we are meeting the specific needs of an increasingly broad spectrum of clients.
Using technology to support relationships We never forget that we are a people business enabled by technology.
Ourinvestments in technology are freeingour people to spend more time with clients, improving efficiency and enhancing the client experience.
Brewin Dolphin 8 Annual Report 2018 Brewin Dolphin 9 www.
co. uk OUR AMBITION We have a strong culture and sound foundation supporting our growth strategy.
Our ambition is to grow our client base and the proportion of their wealth that we manage, in order to drive long-term sustainable value and returns for our shareholders.
Building long-term relationships Strengthening existing client relationships and winning new ones that last are key to sustainable long-term value for both clients and shareholders.
By building mutually rewarding relationships and understanding each clients lifetime goals and ambitions we can deliver individually tailored, expert planning and advice that precisely meets theirneeds.
A progressive business with a distinctive culture It is by living our values Genuine, Expert and Ambitious at an individual and a collective level that helps us develop and sustain client relationships and deliver growth.
As we continue implementing our growth strategy and innovate, our culture and values guide us.
See pages 22 and 39 for more detail.
A focused strategy forgrowth We are delivering on our strategy to growour core revenues by expanding theproportion of wealth we manage forincreasing numbers of clients.
Wecontinue to invest for the future inour people, services, technology, infrastructure, culture and above all ourclient relationships.
Brewin Dolphin 10 Annual Report 2018 Brewin Dolphin 11 www.
