DIRECTORS REPORT Index to principal Directors Report and Listing Rule disclosures Relevant information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report and as set out in Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Pages Business Review Strategic Report 20-23, 26-27 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Report 30-33 Disclosure information to auditor Directors Report 79 Directors in office during the year Corporate Governance Report 44-45 Dividend recommendation for the year Chairmans Statement 18-19 Directors indemnities Directors Report 77 Corporate Responsibility Strategic Report 41-43 Greenhouse gas emissions Directors Report 78 Financial instruments risk management objectives Note 27 to the Financial Statements 129 and policies Future developments of the Company Strategic Report 20-25 Employment policies and employee involvement Strategic Report 41-43 Non-financial information statement Strategic Report 43 Structure of share capital, including restrictions on the Directors Report 76 transfer of securities, voting rights and significant shareholders Rules governing the appointment of Directors Corporate Governance Report 52 Powers of Directors Corporate Governance Report 50 Rules governing changes to the Articles of Association Directors Report 77 Shareholder waiver of dividends Note 23 to the Financial Statements 126 The above information is incorporated by reference and together with the information on pages 76 to 79 forms the Directors Report in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 43 and was approved by the Board on 27 November 2018.
It is signed on behalf of the Board by David Nicol, Chief Executive.
Cautionary statement The review of the business and its future development in the Annual Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not berelied on by any other party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward looking statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing the Strategic Report, have complied with section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements therein, are set out in note23 to the Financial Statements.
This includes the rights and obligations attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Brewin Dolphin 76 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Employee share plans Details of employee share plans are set out in note 28 to the Financial Statements.
Under the rules of the Groups Share Incentive Plan SIP, shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee.
Voting rightsare exercised by the Trustee on receipt of the participants instructions: if no such instruction is received by the Trustee then no vote is registered.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 September 2018, the Company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs Disclosures and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 of the following interests of 3% or more in the voting rights of the Company.
Shareholder Number of voting rights % of voting rights Kabouter Management, LLC 17,020,204 6.00% Royal London Asset Management 16,824,793 5.95% Henderson Group PLC 14,426,962 5.09% Aberforth Partners 14,390,759 5.08% FIL Investment International 12,477,394 5.00% BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% Below 5% FIL Limited 14,092,698 4.97% J O Hambro Capital Management 13,847,348 4.89% Kames Capital 13,730,787 4.85% Legal & General 8,563,901 3.99% Norges Bank 8,577,245 3.03% Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.30am on 1 February 2019 at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM on 2 February 2018, shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum of 10% of its issued Ordinary Shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2019.
As at 27 November 2018 the Directors had not used this authority.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
Employees The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group and their remuneration is set out in note 7 to the Financial Statements.
Other information about the Groups employee engagement, diversity and inclusion policies is set out in the Our People and Corporate Responsibility Reports starting on page 39.
The Group-wide gender diversity split as at 30 September 2018 was 43% female and 57%male.
Internal control and risk management The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board considers that the information it receives enables it to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Areas where internal controls can be improved are identified and appropriate actions agreed as part of our internal control systems.
Senior management, the Board and the Audit Committee regularly monitor progress towards completion of these actions.
The Board considers that none of the identified areas for improvement constitutes a significant failing or weakness.
co. uk DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG The Group recognises and strives to minimise its impact on the environment.
As a financial services provider, our main environmental focus is on our network of offices and employee travel.
Global GHG emissions for the period ended 30 September 2018 T CO e T CO e 2 2 GWP Scope 1,2, 3 GWP Scope 1,2, 3 Emissions from: 2017-2018 2016-2017 Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities 577 557 Electricity purchased for own use 1,034 1,751 Fugitive emissions refrigerant losses 13 Mobile combustion business travel from leased assets 20 20 Total emissions 1,631 2,341 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions per full-time employee 1.0 1.3 The figure for emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities shown for the year has been restated following identification of an error.
General methodology and additional information The table above reports our annual GHG emissions from sources as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We have included most of the emission sources for which we have responsibility but have omitted some emission sources based on materiality and a lack of data.
Details of the emissions which we have omitted are given in the Emission sources not reported section below.
The Scope 2 emissions calculations for purchased electricity follow the location-based methodology of the GHG Protocol.
This is our fifth year of reporting as a quoted company under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used SoFi software, from thinkstep, to gather energy use data natural gas and electricity as well as data on hydrofluorocarbons and upstream leased assets and have applied emission factors from the August 2018 update to the Defra impact profile in SoFi.
For the Groups European operation, please note that Defra no longer includes the International Energy Agencys IEA factors for international electricity consumption in their own dataset.
thinkstep negotiated an agreement with the IEA that allows them to continue to include IEA factors in the SoFi Impact libraries.
These factors are the most up-to-date IEA overseas emission factors currently available which date back to country-specific physical consumption of electricity in 2015.
In this reporting year 2017 2018 no fugitive emissions i. e. emissions from refrigerant losses occurred as there have been no replacements of our direct expansion systems.
As in the previous reporting year, emissions from mobile combustion related to business travel was estimated to amount to an average of 30% of total mileage.
This is our own conservative assumption.
Emission sources not reported This section of the report details the emission sources on which we have not reported and provides the reasons behind our decisions.
Only a minority of the offices we operate directly make use of gas and we have included this in our emissions from combustion of fuel.
We do not have distinct data on heat steam for our other offices as this is most likely embedded in the office service charges that we pay.
As a result, we have not currently reported on purchased heat or steam.
In future we will devise a methodology to estimate the emissions associated with heating requirements for which we are responsible.
Brewin Dolphin 78 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Data quality for electricity and gas consumption Our data for electricity as well as gas consumption comes from two main sources: consumption bills from suppliers reports from property agents etc exact data : and our approximations based on exact data estimated data.
We have used estimated data in some cases because we were unable to get complete data for all our offices for the current reporting period.
The section below details the approach that we have taken to fill the gaps in consumption data.
We identified that there were some offices that had incomplete electricity or gas consumption figures for certain months overthe current reporting period.
In such situations, we chose the following approach to estimate the consumption data for the missing months.
We identified the months in the dataset with electricity consumption, calculated the daily consumption figure and applied this daily figure to the months that had missing data.
In some other cases, there were offices for which we had no electricity and or gas consumption data.
In these situations, weused an average consumption intensity per square foot across offices with reliable data in the current reporting period.
Wethen used these average annual consumptions per square foot intensities to estimate the annual electricity gas consumption of the offices with no electricity gas consumption data, based on individual floor areas.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Approved for and on behalf of the Board.
Tiffany Brill Company Secretary Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Company Number: 02685806 27 November 2018 Brewin Dolphin 79 www.
