Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Global market overview Todays total tobacco and nicotine market comprises a growing user pool o f over one billion individual adult consumers.
While the decline in combustible cigarette consumption is expected tocontinue, it is predicted to be, at least partially, offset by the increasing consumption of PRRPs, in particular vapour, tobacco heating and modern oral products.
The UK is an example of what can happen It is generally accepted that there is a direct Global potentially reducedrisk with the support of regulators and public correlation between steep and ad hoc products PRRP market health bodies.
Driven by influential reports increases in taxes and an increase in illicit The global tobacco and nicotine market is from Public Health England and the Royal sales, with the current sanctions doing little increasingly diversifying beyond traditional College of Physicians on the reduced risk of to deter criminals for whom profits from the combustible tobacco with the growth of vapour products, the UK Government has illegal sale of tobacco remain an appealing vapour and tobacco heating products THPs, implemented a supportive regulatory regime prospect.
For example, following successive as well as the oral tobacco and nicotine which is a contributing factor to category excise increases, the Australasia region has market.
The latest global figures 2017 growth in the country.
seen legal volumes decline substantially.
suggest that the THP and vapour market is However, in markets where effective action worth an estimated US$18 billion, while the Global combustible market has reduced the prevalence of illegal tobacco, oral tobacco and nicotine market is worth an The most recent estimates for the global legal volumes have been restored.
tobacco market 2017 indicate it is worth Combustible regulation approximately US$785 billion excluding Vapour products have developed quickly Tobacco is one ofthe worlds most China.
More than US$700 billion of across the world, with particularly strong regulated and most taxed industries.
this comes from the sale of conventional growth in the US, France and the UK.
Manufacturers are required to comply with cigarettes, with over 5,400 billion cigarettes While the overall prevalence of THPs is less a swath of regulations that vary considerably consumed per year.
than that of vapour, these products have across markets.
emerged strongly in Japan and South Korea.
While combustible cigarettes remains the Legislation and subsequent regulation is largest category, their volumes have seen While traditional oral products show focused mainly on the introduction of plain a gradual fall over many years driven by steady incremental growth, the modern packaging, product-specific regulation, increased regulation and changing societal oral category is quickly establishing itself graphic health warnings on packs, tougher attitudes.
Although this is a trend which is and is expected to show accelerated restrictions on smoking in enclosed public predicted to continue, the growth of new volume expansion.
places and bans on shops displaying tobacco categories of potentially reduced-risk tobacco PRRP regulation products at the point of sale.
and nicotine products is expected to, at least The THP and vapour market is relatively partially, offset this decline in combustible In more recent years, governments have nascent, and regulation is in its early stages.
begun considering and adopting regulations Globally, there is a mix of attitudes between aimed at menthol flavourings, as well as Illicit tobacco regulators who aim to encourage THPs and environmental concerns resulting from the A contributing factor to the decline vapour as products that are potentially lower litter associated with cigarette consumption.
of legal tobacco volumes is the rise in risk for smokers and those who view them the consumption of illicit products.
Litigation with greater scepticism including some Cigarettes are a reliable source of tax revenue countries where they are banned.
Legal and regulatory court proceedings for governments worldwide, and price continue in a number of forms against the Although many jurisdictions have yet to differentials between markets, regulatory tobacco industry, with the most common implement clear regulations concerning changes and broader macroeconomic being third-party reimbursement cases, PRRPs, an increasing number of governments pressures have driven the establishment of classactions and individual lawsuits.
are passing laws that allow and encourage a significant illicit cigarette trade.
The World the growth of these categories.
As the Special factors that led to product liability Health Organization WHO estimates that science continues to move in the direction of litigation in the US and Canada are not one in every ten cigarettes and tobacco confirming the potential of these products to typically replicated inother countries, which products consumed globally is illicit, with offer lower risk, more permissive regulations is why large volume and high-value litigation the market supported by various players, are expected to follow.
has not generally spread to other parts of the ranging from individuals to organised globe.
The industry has a proven track record criminal networks involved in arms and of defending its rights and managing risks human trafficking.
see pages 48 to 52 to learn more about ourPrincipal Group risks for further discussion regarding the regulation All data sources on this page are from Euromonitor of our business, please see pages 274 to 279 Internationalunless otherwise stated.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 15
