Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Overview British American Tobacco BAT is one of the worlds leading consumer goods companies, with nicotine and tobacco brands sold around the globe.
W e employ over 55,000 people, partner w ith over 90,000 farmers and h ave factories in 48countries, withoffices ineven more.
Transforming T obacco At BAT, we have been Rapid product innovation, satisfying adult consumers, along with advances in delivering shareholder societal attitudes and public value and creating valued health awareness, has given employment for over us the opportunity to make acentury.
a substantial leap forward in our longheld ambition to Today we find ourselves positively impact the lives inone of the most ofmillions of our consumers dynamicperiods of by providing themwith changeour industry lowerrisk tobacco and haseverencountered.
We call this ambition transforming tobacco and we are fully committed to leading the transformation of our industry and ourcompany.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 01 Over Overview view In 2012, we articulated a clear vision that places adult consumers at the centre of our strategy.
Our Transforming Tobacco ambition builds on this vision as we grow our business based on offering our consumers a broad range of outstanding products, informed consumer c hoice, and a drive towards a reduced-risk portfolio.
More choice, more innovation, less risk.
Empowering consumers through choice It is widely accepted that Our growing portfolio most of the harm associated ofpotentially reducedrisk with cigarettes is caused by products whichwe call PRRPs inhaling the smoke produced includes vapour, tobacco heating by the combustion of tobacco, products THPs, modern oral andthatcigarette smoking is products, as well as traditional the most dangerous way of oral products such as Swedish - consuming tobacco.
While smokers have historically had very few alternatives Our acquisition of Reynolds to combustible cigarettes, American has transformed innovation is nowproviding us into one of the worlds adult consumers with a greater leading vapour companies choice of tobacco and nicotine and has also allowed us to products that are potentially significantly increase the less risky than cigarettes.
size ofour oral tobacco and .
BAT is at the forefront of the development and sale of a whole Never before have so many of our range of potentially reducedrisk consumers around the world had productsthat provide much access to so many alternatives of theenjoyment of smoking to combustible cigarettes.
continue to develop new and ever more innovative products toadd tothis range of potentially lessriskychoices.
02 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In addition to our commitment to developing and offering a range of highquality alternative products, we are also committed to working with governments and other stakeholders around the world to develop supportive regulatory regimes.
While we cannot be certain how many smokers will switch to our alternative products, we have already seen several countries dismantle barriers to these new products, which has given millions of additional adult consumers greater choice.
supported by pro-active external engagement We recognise that our By working with key ambition to transform stakeholders around the tobacco relies not only world, we strive to maximise on our development the potential for reducedrisk and commercialisation products: safer choices for of newproducts, but on our consumers, benefits for thesupport of regulators public health, and a more andsociety as well.
sustainable and profitable business for ourshareholders.
Greater consumer choice is at the heart of our strategy, but its effects require amplification from sensible regulations that allow adult consumers access to alternative choices, as wellasfrom public health bodies and the media to drive informed consumer decision making.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 03 Overview Consumer preferences are diverse and constantly evolving.
Our increasingly broad range of potentially reduced-risk products allows us to m fleet these varied preferences and create a better tomorrow for our consumers.
An unrivalled range of innovative products Today, we have industry - In 2018, we filed 130patents leading products in vapour, and expect that number to in tobacco heating products, significantly increase in the in modern oral products, coming years.
as well as in the traditional Of course, expertise in oralcategory.
thisarea is not solely within Notwithstanding the BAT and, consequently, successes of our new we have a number of categories, this is just the collaborations, partnerships beginning, and innovation and investments with third and technology will parties with a broad range increasingly be at the heart ofspecialisms to help us of our business.
Our research driveand develop our and development facility, pipeline of future products.
comprising hundreds of scientists, isfocused on the continued development of new andinnovative potentially reducedrisk products andcategories.
04 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information BATs ongoing transformation is supported by its strong global combustibles business, and every day more than 150 million adult consumers choose BAT brands.
The revenues from this business are vital to provide the investment for our PRRP business, while our global supply chain and worldwide distribution network of over 11 million retail outlets are powerful assets that drive our ambition to offer millions of adult consumers new and potentially less r isky choices.
underpinned by a strong global business As we develop new and We are often asked why potentially reducedrisk we dont simply stop product categories, our selling cigarettes.
In short, conventional cigarette immediately stopping our business remains strong sales of cigarettes would and continues to grow.
be neither commercially Thisenables us to invest sensible nor practical: the in the development of ongoing consumer demand better and more innovative for these products would products, while continuing either transfer straight to to deliver strong results and our competitors or, more dividends to our shareholders.
As a global business operating We are proud of all our in over 200markets, we are brands and believe that using our significant presence all ourproducts have a anddistribution networks role to play in our business tooffer our full range of success and our ambition potentially reducedrisk totransform tobacco.
product choices to as many adult consumers as possible.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 05 Overview Our potentially reduced-risk product business has seen outstanding growth.
Our tobacco heating, vapour, and modern oral products are now available in 29 markets and used by six million adult consumers around the world.
However, this is just the beginning, and with a growing consumer base of over one billion smokers and nicotine users in the world, the opportunities presented by these new categories are huge.
Another step on an exciting journey While we cannot be If we can all work successfully certain whether all smokers together, we can drive will switch to potentially a scenario in which our reducedrisk products, consumers will have arange weare committed to of potentially safer choices, improving the lives of our shareholders will own smokers by making a range an even more sustainable of highquality, innovative and profitable business, products as widely available andsociety could benefit as we practically can.
from real progress intobacco harm reduction.
We believe that by doing this, and working with regulators to establish supportive regulatory regimes, many millions of smokers will increasingly make the choice to switch.
06 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
