Strategic Management Chief Executives review Nicandro Durante Chief Executive The Groups vapour portfolio performed A winning strategy strongly with significant growth in both After 37 years at BAT, eight of them as CEO, I will volume and revenue across our 15 vapour retire in April 2019.
I have seen BAT evolve and markets.
Momentum increased, with growth grow throughout my career, and am confident weighted towards the second half of the year that this will continue during the dynamic period driven by new market and product launches.
of change the industry is going through today.
Total vapour volume was up by 35% on a When I became CEO in 2011, we articulated representative basis with good performances a strategy to put the consumer at the heart in the worlds three largest vapour markets of our business, and a vision to be the best at the US, the UK and France.
satisfying consumer moments in tobacco and In oral tobacco we continue to grow value beyond.
This strategy has enabled us to deliver with strong performances from modern oral consistent outstanding year-on-year growth products such as Epok in Sweden, Norway and shareholder returns, while at the same time and Switzerland, as well as traditional establishing a successful and diverse potentially products such as Grizzly in the US, where reduced-risk products PRRP business designed revenues were 931 million, an increase of to meet the evolving and varied preferences of 3.1% on an adjusted representative basis.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI Thanks to this strategy, the Group continues to perform well.
Our 2018 reported revenue RAI is delivering strong financial results for and profit from operations are up 25% and the Group.
In 2018, revenue was up 128% 45% respectively, and while this is of course as a result of the full year effect.
This was due primarily to our first full years inclusion an increase of 1.5% on a representative of results from the US, we have nonetheless constant currency basis, and was driven again exceeded our target of high single figure by robust price mix and a 25 basis points adjusted diluted constant currency EPS growth growth in value share, despite a decline in with an increase of 11.8%.
This was driven total volume.
With adjusted operating margin not only by the strong performance of our up 180 bps, adjusted profit from operations combustible business, but also by the nearwas up 5.8% on a representative, constant doubling of THP and vapour revenue.
Annualised cost savings resulting from the acquisition are now running at over Notwithstanding these results, it is clear US$300 million per year, and we are on track that the market has concerns in relation to to deliver at least US$400 million per year in the impact of the changes the industry is cost synergies by the end of 2020. going through and in respect of threatened regulatory developments.
I am, however, While FDA regulatory proposals have driven confident that the business is in extremely some uncertainty in the US operating good shape and that these changes, in reality, environment, our long track record of success present significant opportunities for future in the face of regulatory change and our growth.
With our core combustibles business strong portfolio of brands give us confidence outperforming the industry, and with a strong that we will be able to manage these issues.
and broad multi-category portfolio of PRRPs We are additionally reassured by the fact capable of meeting the evolving preferences that, in order to withstand judicial review, of consumers around the world, I believe we any regulation of menthol in cigarettes must are in a good position to deliver long-term be developed through a comprehensive sustainable growth.
rule-making process, be based on a thorough scientific review and consider all A strong portfolio of both unintended consequences.
combustibles and PRRPs Handing over Our results in 2018 reflect the successful I am extremely pleased that the Board has performance of all elements of our portfolio, chosen Jack Bowles as my successor.
I have no and highlight the importance of expanding doubt that his broad-ranging experience and consumer choice across all of our categories.
expertise, combined with his energy, passion In combustibles, Group market share was and drive for success, will help ensure the up 40 basis points, driven by another strong future growth of the Company.
performance from the Strategic Cigarette and I am tremendously proud of what we have THP brands, which grew volume by 5.8%.
achieved in the last eight years, and would like In THP, our revenue increased to 565 million to thank all of my colleagues across the Group or576 million, at constant rates.
Our glo brand for their part in this.
has achieved 4.7% market share 20% category share in Japan, and continues to grow market share in South Korea, Romania and Italy.
12 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
