Strategic Management Delivering our strategy Revenue m Growth 24,492m Our multi-category portfolio of brands 25.2% continued to deliver in 2018, driven by 2018 24,492m 25% our Strategic Portfolio.
19,564m 2017 39% 2016 14,130m 13% Highlights during the year Definition: Revenue recognised, net of duty, Group revenue grew by 25% at current rates of exchange, 3.5% adjusted exciseandother taxes.
representative at constant rates: In 2018, revenue includes 17,257 million of revenue fromthe Strategic Portfolio, an increase of 49% on 2017 Group market share in Key Markets up by 40 bps: on a reported and representative basis.
Strategic Portfolio cigarette and THP volume grew 17.9% 5.8% representative.
Change in adjusted revenue at constant rates % 33.4% KPI Non-GAAP Strategic Cigarette and THP brands Business performance 2018 33% Our eight Strategic Combustible Brands Group cigarette and THP volume from 2018 rep 4% account for over 60% of the cigarettes we sell 2017 32% subsidiaries was 708 billion, an increase and play a key role in our growth strategy.
2017 org 3% of 3.3%, with revenue up 25.2% at 2016 6% 24,492 million against the previous year Dunhill: Market share was stable as strong due to the inclusion of a full years volume Definition: Change in revenue before the impact of performances in Indonesia, Brazil and South adjusting items and the impact of fluctuations in foreign from RAI.
On a representative basis, volume Africa were offset by the effect of downexchange rates.
was 3.5% lower as growth in Pakistan, Japan trading in Saudi Arabia and South Korea.
driven by THP, Turkey, Poland, Romania and Volume was 6.1% lower as the continued Egypt was more than offset by declines in the growth in Indonesia was more than offset by Change in adjusted revenue from the GCC, US, Russia and Brazil.
Strategic Portfolio at constant rates % the effect of the down-trading noted above and market size contraction in Brazil, South Adjusted revenue, on a constant rate Africa and Malaysia.
representative basis grew 3.5%, as pricing 56.1% and the growth in PRRPs more than offset Kent: Market share was up 50 bps, with KPI thedecline in volume.
Non-GAAP volume increasing 1.7%, driven by Japan including Kent Neo Sticks for glo, Turkey, The Groups cigarette and THP market 2018 56% Brazil and Ukraine.
This more than offset share in its Key Markets continued to grow, 2018 rep 8% lower volume in the Middle East and Russia up 40basis points bps.
This was driven despite an increase in market share as volume Definition: Change in revenue from the Strategic by another excellent performance by our Portfolio before the impact of adjusting items and was affected by trade inventory movements.
Strategic Cigarette and THP portfolio with theimpact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
volume up 5.8% on a representative basis.
Lucky Strike: Market share grew 20 bps, This measure was introduced in 2018, with no which was driven by Indonesia, Japan, The Groups THP and vapour portfolio comparators provided.
Colombia, Spain, France, Argentina and contributed 883 million of revenue, or Mexico.
Volume was 1.0% down as growth in 901 million at constant rates of exchange, Strategic Cigarette and THP volume Germany, Colombia, Japan and Argentina was due to the expansion in the geographic more than offset by declines due to industry footprint and the inclusion of a full years contraction in Indonesia and France.
revenue from the acquired RAI portfolio.
On arepresentative, constant rate basis the Pall Mall: Market share grew 10 bps, with 451bn increase was over 95%, demonstrating the volume up 20.4% partly due to the inclusion strong underlying growth in the year.
17.9% 5.8% representative of Pall Mall in the US following the acquisition of RAI.
This was an increase of 9.9% on a Strategic Portfolio 2018 451bn representative basis, partly due to the strong Our Strategic Portfolio comprises leading 2017 382bn volume and market share growth in Saudi 2016 324bn brands across the combustible and PRRP Arabia that followed the market down-trading categories.
This drives focus and investment arising from the excise-led price increases in 2017: 17.9% 7.6% organic on the brands and categories that will 2016: 7.5% 2017.
Pakistan continued to grow volume and underpin the Groups future growth.
market share after the revision to excise, with higher volume and market share also achieved in Mexico, Egypt and Australia.
20 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Potentially reducedrisk products PRRPs Across our 15 THP markets, we have grown Group market share of key markets total THP revenue, at constant rates, by over A key component of our Strategic Portfolio 180% to 576 million, and have increased are our PRRPs, which comprise vapour, THPs, consumables volumes by 217% to 7 billion and modern white oral products as well as sticks.
While the majority of growth has 40 bps traditional oral products such as moist snuff been in Japan, glo is increasing market and snus.
We are seeking to lead the entire KPI share in roll-out markets including South category and have a suite of products to cater Korea, Romania and Italy, and is showing to consumers many and varying preferences.
2017: 40 bps good initial results in recent launch markets 2016: 50 bps Vapour products including Croatia.
The Groups vapour portfolio performed Modern oral products strongly with significant growth in both Total shareholder return TSR of the Our modern oral category comprises the volume and revenue across our 15 vapour FMCG group 1 January 2016 brands EPOK and Lyft, which both experienced markets.
Momentum increased throughout to 31December 2018 % significant growth in 2018.
Total revenue grew The FMCG group comparison is based 2018, with much of the growth weighted 127% to 34 million, a 140% increase on a on three months average values towards the second half of the year driven by representative, constant rate basis.
new market and new product launches.
BAT Median -3.6% 3.7% EPOK performed well, achieving, in December 30 Total vapour volume was up by 100%, 25 2018, 8% and 17% share of the total partly due to the acquisition of RAI.
On a 20 oral market in Norway and Switzerland representative basis this was an increase of 15 respectively, being the fastest growing brand 35% with good performances in the worlds 10 in the category.
5 three largest vapour markets the US, the UK 0 and France.
Lyft, the Groups tobacco-free product, was -5 launched in Sweden, achieving 4.5% total -10 More specifically, US vapour volume -15 oral market share in handlers.
of consumables grew by 36%, on a representative basis, with the market rapidly KPI Traditional oral products Lower quartile Upper quartile expanding up 120% in volume terms.
Our traditional oral category, comprising This was driven by the expansion of Vuse Rothmans: Market share continued to grow, snus and moist snuff, grew revenue from following the expansion of Alto and re-launch increasing a further 110 bps with volume up the Strategic Brands by 128% in 2018, a of Vibe.
19.7% driven by Ukraine, Russia, Nigeria, representative constant rate increase of 9%.
Bulgaria and migrations in Poland, Brazil While US volumes were down 2.3%, on a Vype and the Groups other vapour brands in and Colombia.
representative basis, in part due to a decline the rest of world including Ten Motives and in the total market and a reduction in Grizzly VIP in the UK grew volume by 34%, driven Newport: Market share grew 10 bps market share over the year of 40 bps as the by market-leading performances in the UK in the US.
Volume declined 4.6%, on a brand lapped a tough comparator which and France.
representative basis, partly due to inventory benefited from a competitors product recall, movements within the supply chain, with Our new Vype ePen3 is performing extremely returning to growth in the final quarter of the US market down 4.5-5.0% due to higher well in launch markets such as Canada and 2018.
This was more than offset by total gasoline prices, 2017 excise-led price increase the UK, where it was voted Vapour Product pricing and a 40 bps increase in total value in California and the growth of vapour.
ofthe Year in the UKs largest consumer share, with revenue from the strategic survey of product innovation, and is indicative Camel: Market share was flat in the portfolio growing 8% to 893 million, of the strong product pipeline we have in US.
Volume was lower by 4.4%, on a onaconstant rate, representative basis.
place to cater to changing preferences in representative basis, partly due to a strong this category.
Local and international comparator period.
cigarettebrands Tobacco heating products THPs Natural American Spirit: Share momentum The Group delivered significant growth In addition to the brands comprising our continued in the US, up 20 bps, with volume in the THP category in 2018.
In Japan, Strategic Portfolio, we have many other higher by 3.5% on a representative basis, which accounts for 70% of global industry international and local cigarette brands outperforming the market estimated to be volume, our launch of neosticks returned us including Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, 4.5-5.0% down due to a strong performance to growth, reaching a total market share of Craven A, Benson & Hedges, John Player Gold in the premium segment.
4.7% in December 2018 and a 20% share of Leaf, State Express 555 and Shuang Xi.
In addition to revenue and the other measures discussed in this Annual Report and Form 20-F, BAT management focuses on volume as a key measure to evaluate performance.
Volume is an unaudited operating measure and is calculated as the total global cigarette, THP, vapour or oral volume of the Groups brands sold by its subsidiaries.
The Group believes that volume is a measure commonly used by analysts and investors in the industry.
Accordingly, this information has been disclosed to permit a more complete analysis of the Groups operating performance.
The Group also uses market share to evaluate its performance.
The Group evaluates changes in its key market offtake share as measured by retail audit agencies including Nielsen, shipment share estimates and share of retail for the US business for tobacco products, based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources.
Key markets consist of approximately 40 territories across all geographical segments, and represent approximately 80% of the Groups global volume.
Growth in these markets is largely driven by the Strategic Portfolio.
The Group also highlights drivers for change in specific markets e. g. volume, market share or value share being the customer sales price earned as a proportion of the industry total customer sales price.
For PRRPs, the Group monitors its performance in select countries e. g. UK, France, Germany, Italy based upon category retail market share, based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources.
In addition, the Groups performance is affected by global pricing, which is impacted by discounts, terms of credit with customers, excise taxes and other competitive, market-driven and regulatory factors.
In certain markets, the Group has experienced increases or decreases in average prices resulting from changes in product mix, also referred to as price mix.
The Group believes that pricing and market share are measures commonly used by analysts and investors in the industry.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 21 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Profit from operations m Productivity 9,313m We have continued our drive towards a more effective 45.2% and efficient globally-integrated organisation by 2018 9,313m 45% leveraging global systems and new ways of working.
6,412m 2017 38% 2016 4,655m 2% This global integration allows for the lowest possible Definition: Profit for the year before the impact of overheads cost, the most cost-effective and responsive net finance costs income, share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures and taxation on supply chain and that productiv ity opportunities are ordinary activities.
Change in adjusted profit from Highlights during the year operations at constant rates % Another year of substantial productivity savings and RAI acquisition savings on track: Consolidation of our Global Supply Chain Service Centre: 37.8% KPI Vapour and THP operations integration completed.
Non-GAAP 2018 38% This investment in machinery has also led 2018 rep 4% Globalising operations and to capital expenditure being targeted to 2017 39% improving efficiency 2017 org 4% the areas of the business with the greatest Global systems and ways of working across 2016 4% return on the investment.
This global the Group are utilised to minimise our cost view also enhances our ability to react Definition: Change in profit from operations before the base and maximise expertise.
Furthermore, impact of adjusting items and the impact of fluctuations quickly, particularly within the PRRP space.
by ensuring back-office activities are carried in foreign exchange rates.
Supply Chain integration also better allows out efficiently and effectively, the end markets the Group to leverage capabilities and scale are free to focus their efforts on consumerto improve speed-to-market, which in turn @ Operating cash flow conversion ratio % focused activities.
This drive to a globallygenerates savings and supports the rapid integrated enterprise is most apparent deployment of cutting-edge innovations.
in our Supply Chain, Talent and Culture, These continued strategic investments in new Finance, Procurement and Information 113% machinery in 2018, supported by our global Technology functions.
KPI planning systems and integrated business Non-GAAP In line with this strategy, in 2017 the Group model, enable us to deliver on time and in undertook a migration to a single Enterprise full in all our Key Markets at optimal cost, 2018 113% Resource Planning system, and in 2018 with speed and scale.
2017 79% focused on delivering data and analytic 2016 93% With the RAI integration complete we have capabilities globally to identify new sources established a best-practice sharing model that Definition: Operating cash flow, as defined on page of productivity savings, while also making 263 as a percentage ofadjusted profit from operations.
is performing above expectations, with futher progress on our complexity-reduction agenda.
Operating cash flow isnot a measure defined by IFRS.
savings being delivered in procurement, Additionally, the implementation of Integrated manufacturing and supply chain.
Working Systems across our factories has On the PRRP front, the revision of supplier generated important efficiency gains, contracts has led to significant savings, as has reducing waste and loss in our manufacturing integrating the growth of our vapour, tobacco processes and enabling better service heating and oral product portfolios, which levels.
This has been complemented by has allowed the Group to both leverage important manufacturing footprint reviews economies of scale and reduce complexity.
across our regions, which have optimised asset utilisation.
As a result, annualised cost savings from the acquisition are now totalling over The completion of our Global Supply US$300 million per year, and we are on track Chain Service Centre has resulted in the to deliver at least US$400 million per year in synchronisation of our end-to-end supply cost synergies by the end of 2020. network, which now operates as a demanddriven enterprise.
This, along with significant improvements in the efficiency of equipment and machinery, has improved the reliability of our supply network and has released cash by reducing our inventory of leaf, materials and finished goods.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
22 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Continued optimisation of Ongoing productivity savings Net cash generated from operating activities m manufacturing locations and By operating globally, exploiting our systems and striving for results, the Group leafgrowing delivered substantial productivity savings In 2018, we continued to optimise our 10,295m in 2018, supported in large part by the manufacturing footprint and at the end of acquisition of Reynolds American which will 93% theyear had 55 factories in 48 countries.
continue to provide further opportunities for This includes two new factories, one in productivity savings.
2018 10,295m 93% Zambia and one in Malaysia.
5,347m 2017 16% These savings are returned to the business 2016 4,610m -2% The German factorys refocus on Other for re-investment and to increase shareholder Definition: Movement in net cash and cash equivalents Tobacco Products OTP, Dry Ice Expanded return.
The following examples show how before the impact of net cash used in financing activities, Tobacco DIET and Casing Flavours the Group considers all opportunities in net cash used in investing activities and differences Manufacture was completed in 2018, which the supply chain, including procurement, on exchange.
marks the end of its manufacture of cigarettes.
international logistics and leaf operations: Additionally, it was announced in October Procurement 2018 that the Russian factory Saratov will Change in adjusted cash generated from @ Global visibility of forward demand and operations at constant rates % close in Q4 2019. product specifications in one system has We are continually looking to improve the delivered significant benefits with the tender efficiency of our entire supply chain with 158% at a global level of print materials and opportunities to improve our manufacturing KPI tow being notable examples.
In addition Non-GAAP operations being a particular focus.
We are to the benefits of lower product cost, realising the benefits of our Integrated Work the development of long-term supplier Systems, a programme that is designed 2018 158% relationships with key suppliers has improved 2017 0% to maximise equipment efficiency while security of supply and enabled higher 2016 21% ensuring we maintain high standards of flexibility in the supply chain.
Definition: Change in adjusted cash generated from International logistics operations, as defined on page 264, before the impact The improved equipment efficiency is offluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Whether by road, air or sea, our logistics are delivering real benefits through improved organised and controlled centrally.
This facilitates productivity and lower maintenance costs opportunities to negotiate globally with thirdOperating margin together with reduced waste.
An additional party providers and allows us to benefit from % positive by-product is the release of capital our scale.
Furthermore, this maximises the expenditure which can be used to invest in use of return shipments and economic order further innovation.
quantities to allow for maximum efficiency 38.0% While the Group does not own tobacco farms while maintaining the flexibility for fast response or directly employ farmers, it sources over tomarket opportunities.
400,000 tonnes of tobacco leaf each year Leaf operations 2018 38.0% directly from over 90,000 contracted farmers 2017 32.8% These are similarly managed globally to and through third-party suppliers mainly in 2016 32.9% ensure that the Group works with reliable, developing countries and emerging markets.
efficient and responsible farmers in our source Definition: Profit from operations as a percentage We continually strive to improve farmer countries.
Our Global Leaf Pool operation of revenue.
sustainability and viability with a focus on aggregates demand to meet supply across all improved quality, reduced costs of production internationally traded tobacco.
This approach and increased yield.
As a result, we review our Adjusted operating margin balances the lowest possible working capital % contracts on an annual basis to ensure that investment while reducing our exposure to production is aligned to the needs of both the crop failure from changes in climate and farmer and the Group.
guaranteeing the best quality leaf to meet 42.6% consumer demands.
The Group also purchases a small amount of Non-GAAP tobacco leaf from India where the tobacco In 2018, while transactional foreign exchange is bought over an auction floor.
The price rates again had a negative effect on our 2018 42.6% of tobacco in US dollars varies from year cost base, we continued to improve our 2017 41.1% to-year driven by domestic inflationary productivity in all areas of our supply chain 2016 38.8% pressures, supply, demand and quality.
and elsewhere in the Group.
As a result, we The Group believes there is an adequate Definition: Adjusted profit from operations have increased our profitability and continue asapercentage of adjusted revenue.
supply of tobacco leaf in the world markets to deliver returns to our shareholders today to satisfy its current and anticipated and invest in the future.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 23 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Group diversity as at 31 December 2018 Winning organisation Total Male Female Main Board 10 7 3 Senior We enable growth by having a winning organisation: management 629 491 138 by investing in our people, by attracting the best, Total Group employees 56,710 41,842 14,868 and by developing high-performing leaders who inspire diverse teams of committed and engaged people in a Main Board Senior management fulfilling, rewarding and responsible workenvironment.
22 30 Highlights during the year Accelerated talent development and attraction in growth markets and growth categoriesincluding tobacco heating products, vapour and modern oral: 70 78 Launched Parents@BAT: a Group-wide pay and benefits programme for new parents: Top Employer recognition in Europe, Africa, and Asia-Pacific.
Total Group employees 26 % Male Investing in leaders Attracting the best talent 74 % Female The quality of our people is a key contributing When we do recruit externally, we actively factor to the Groups performance.
As a result, seek those who will provide additional we commit to investing in our people as knowledge and skills that will strengthen much as we do in our brands, and continuing our teams and ultimately make us a stronger to attract and retain the best people remains business.
In 2018, we continued to enhance Nationalities represented a key priority.
our internal capabilities to engage and recruit those people who will help us succeed in Total The long-term culture of the Group has growth markets and growth categories, Main Board 7 been about developing talent from within, including potentially reduced-risk products.
stretching and supporting high-performing Global headquarters 83 managers who will lead the delivery of our We also continued the digital growth of our Management level globally 147 strategy.
This year, over 92% of our senior employer brand Bring your Difference appointments, including our CEO Designate, across core social media channels, where we were drawn from people already within the are now an industry leader with over 600,000 Senior managers: Companies Act 2006 business moves that have helped to deliver followers on LinkedIn a 45% increase For the purposes of disclosure under section 414C 8 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group had 205 male and 26 female stronger and more diverse leadership teams from 2017. senior managers as at 31 December 2018.
Senior managers and succession plans.
are defined here as the members of the Management Board As competition for talented employees excluding the Executive Directors and the directors of the We continually update our capability intensifies, people increasingly want to Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
The principal 24 frameworks and learning portfolio to enable work for businesses with a good corporate subsidiary undertakings, as set out in the Financial Statements, development of new skills and knowledge to reputation.
We are proud to have been ranked represented approximately 72% of the Groups employees and contributed over 76% of Group revenue and 95% drive business performance.
In June 2018, among the top employers around the world ofprofitfrom operations in 2018. we offered our employees access to a new and have been named as a Top Employer for e-learning platform Lynda.
com which Europe, Africa, Middle East, Latin America, provides a video library with over 6,500 and Asia-Pacific by the Top Employer Institute, courses on a variety of topics including an independent global certification company.
leadership and core business skills, taught by We also received similar accolades in many of well-known business leaders.
Currently, Lynda the countries in which we operate including is available to BAT employees worldwide Great Place to Work in the US and Brazil.
in English, French, Spanish and German.
In 2018, we hosted the largest-ever Global More languages are in the pipeline for Graduate Academy, with over 200 participants next year.
gathering in London for an interactive To improve understanding of our new and learning experience supported by senior growing portfolio of potentially reducedbusiness leaders.
Also during 2018, we held risk products, we launched a microlearning the Groups first global graduate competition, initiative that has been utilised by over which saw people compete to win a London 2,000 members of our sales force teams internship, and received a global social media sinceits launch in 2018. reach of 35 million people.
You can learn more about our You can read about our Group risk factor Global Graduate Programme at related to talent on page 272 www.
com graduates 24 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Director, Group Human Resources, This provides training, mentoring and other Growth through diversity has overall responsibility for all employee types of career support for high-potential Diversity matters to the Group because it and human resources HR matters, while female employees and, over the last two makes good commercial sense having our Management Board oversees the years, has supported over 250 delegates.
a diverse workforce means we are better development and management of talent For the last four years, our most senior able tounderstand and meet the varied within the Groups regions and functions, womenhave taken part in the Women preferences of our global consumers.
andmonitors progress against our key Leaders Programme, run in conjunction with We are proud of our Diversity and Inclusion objectives and performance indicators.
Strategy, which is built on the three pillars of: Our Main Board reviews progress on our We also provide mentoring, coaching 1. driving ownership and accountability, diversity activity and performance twice a and sponsorship programmes and have year, and diversity reporting forms a key part participated in the 30% Club for five years.
2. building diverse talent pools, and of all Functional and Regional Leadership This provides external support for our senior 3. creating enablers, Team meetings, with quarterly reviews.
women, as well as mentoring women from other organisations.
all of which are underpinned by an 2.
Building diverse talent pools inclusive culture.
In 2018, 51% of our senior recruits and We are a diverse employer.
There are 147 33% of internal promotions were women, nationalities represented at management 1.
Driving ownership and accountability moves that have helped deliver stronger level within our Group, and we are pleased Ensuring ownership of and accountability for and more diverse leadership teams.
And we with the continuous progress we are making our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy across all are having success in retaining our very best and the sustainable pipeline we are building business areas and levels of the Group is key female talent, with turnover of senior women intermsof nationality diversity.
reducing dramatically from 15% in 2013 to We are also continuing to work hard to just 1.7% in 2018.
This is why all of our regions and all functions improve gender diversity within the Group.
worldwide have a Diversity Champion, who 3.
Creating enablers Women represent 30% of our Board, and in is a member of the applicable Leadership 2018 we increased female representation in To realise our diversity ambitions, we know we Team.
They are responsible for driving the senior management to 22%.
must develop enablers to provide a supportive agenda, including ensuring that agreed-upon environment for people to thrive.
One of the diversity action plans are implemented In 2019, two of our five new Management ways we do this is by providing women and and that development and retention Board members are women.
We also have other diverse groups with an opportunity plans for high-potential employees are female executives on all our senior functional to connect, engage and share experiences.
executed with a strong focus on gender and geographical leadership teams, and 46% At the moment we support 12 womens andnationality diversity.
of our 2018 graduate intake were women, networks across the Group that cut across ensuring a sustainable pipeline of women for For example, our IT Function is partnering all levels of the organisation, including our senior management roles.
These women have with our major IT suppliers to provide Women in BAT UK network, which currently the opportunity to participate in our Global cross-company mentoring for women in has nearly 400 members.
Graduate Academy: an intensive two-week technology.
Additionally, our Operations programme focusing on accelerating the Complementing these networks, the 12 most Function has identified a number of development of the Groups next generation senior women in the business have established global location agnostic roles, that would of leaders.
a panel with the aim of developing and previously have required relocating but can mentoring women, as well as to encourage instead be carried out from the employees We require all recruitment agencies we work and support the Groups leadership on its home country.
with to provide gender-balanced shortlists approach to gender diversity and the way of candidates.
We also focus on developing This approach helps ensure that diversity is in which talent pipelines are developed talent from within and one of the ways embedded across the Group and that our and managed.
we are supporting womens development pipeline of diverse talent is strong and healthy.
into senior roles is through our Women in Leadership programme.
Our policies and principles Summary of areas covered Key stakeholder groups Employment Principles Employment practices, including commitments to diversity, reasonable Group employees working hours, family-friendly policies, employee wellbeing, talent, performance and equal opportunities, and fair, clear and competitive remuneration and benefits.
Health and Safety Policy Health, safety and welfare of all employees, other members of our workforce Employees and contractors, andthird-party personnel.
suppliers, business partners, farmers Standards of Business Respect in the work place, including promoting equality and diversity, Employees and contractors Conduct SoBC preventing harassment and bullying, and safeguarding employee wellbeing.
Group Data Privacy Policy The manner in which BAT processes personal data about all individuals, Employees and contractors, including consumers, employees, contractors and employees of suppliers suppliers, business partners, consumers These policies and procedures are endorsed by our Board and support the effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and issues for our business in these and other areas.
Further details of our Group policies and principles can be found at www.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 25 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued In 2018, we launched Parents@BAT a In addition to this range of engagement Employee engagement index range of benefits to support new parents channels, we have implemented new employed by Group companies worldwide reporting channels to enable regular reporting to balance their home and work lives.
to the Board on workforce views on key topics This offers significantly better terms than at all levels across the Group.
Board feedback 83% existing legal requirements for over 20,000 and associated action planning, as appropriate, FMCG comparator group 71% of our employees in 26 countries, including is cascaded back to the workforce and the a minimum of 16 weeks fully paid maternity Board is kept updated on progress against 2017 83 leave for new mothers and adoptive parents identified actions during the year.
We will 2014 72 as well as a return-to-work guarantee, flexible report on these arrangements in our 2019 Definition: Results from our Your Voice employee working opportunities and an online advice Annual Report and Form 20-F. opinion survey, carried out in 2017, enabled us to service offering coaching support for all calculate our employee engagement index a measure Our Employment Principles parents whenever they need it.
that reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy and pride Our Employment Principles set out a common in the organisation.
The Groups next employee opinion In many countries, BATs support for new survey will take place in 2019. approach for our Group companies policies parents already goes far beyond these and procedures, recognising that each Group Objective: To achieve a more positive score than minimum guidelines and local statutory the norm for FMCG companies in ourcomparator company must take account of local labour requirements.
For example, in the UK, we benchmark group.
law and practice, and the local political, provide maternity leave with six months full economic and cultural context.
pay with a pro rata bonus, statutory pay for three months and a return-to-work guarantee.
In developing our Employment Principles, Our other key performance indicators in wehave sought the views of a cross-section this area include: Inclusive culture ofinternal and external stakeholders, and We can only truly harness the benefits of Employee retention: In 2018, total have consulted with employee representatives a diverse workforce if we have an inclusive turnover of management-grade and where relevant with our works councils.
culture that enables all our employees to employees was 1,963, representing 15% All Group companies have committed to flourish regardless of their gender, culture of the total management population.
our Employment Principles and, through or other differences.
Diversity: Representation of women in our internal audit processes, are required to Our Inclusive Leadership and Understanding senior management roles increased from demonstrate how these are embedded into Bias training workshop is designed to make 16% in 2016, and 21% in 2017, to 22% the work place.
sure managers not only recognise they may in 2018.
In addition to our Employment Principles, have personal or organisational bias, but that our Board Diversity Policy specifically applies they also understand how to develop inclusive Workforce engagement to our Board and Management Board and is teams and harness the viewpoints of others.
The Group has a range of well-established discussed further at page 60.
In 2018, we partnered with the workforce engagement channels worldwide International Womens Day Association Rewarding people to ensure the Board, including through on the #PressforProgress campaign.
updates provided by management, Reward is a key pillar in ensuring that we have Sponsored by our Management Board, understands the views of the Groups the right people to drive the business forward.
thecampaign focused on raising awareness workforce across all jurisdictions in which the Reward is necessarily local and we strongly and reinforcing the importance of gender Group operates.
support this through global frameworks parity.
Activities were held across the Group, to ensure leading-edge policies, processes Group engagement channels include works including inspirational talks from internal and and technology are available to all markets.
councils, meetings with the European external female leaders and opportunities for Base pay rewards core competence relative Employee Council, town hall sessions, global, individuals to make their own commitments.
to skills, experience and contribution to the functional and regional webcasts, and CEO Group, while annual bonuses, recognition webcasts, implemented at market, business Equal opportunities for all schemes and ad hoc incentives provide the unit, functional and or regional level as We are committed to providing equal right mix to ensure that high performance appropriate for the composition of local opportunities to all employees.
We do not is recognised and rewarded.
discriminate when making decisions on hiring, Incentive Plan LTIP has been established to promotion or retirement on the grounds of Additionally, the Board undertakes a Group make annual awards of free shares to senior race, colour, gender, age, social class, religion, market or site visit on an annual basis, managers provided certain challenging smoking habits, sexual orientation, politics including meeting with local employees, and long-term performance conditions are met.
We are committed to providing the Executive Directors regularly visit markets The LTIP is one element of senior executives training and development for employees and local sites across the Group.
We also reward package aiming to align the interests with disabilities.
undertake a Group global employee opinion of the Groups senior managers with those survey Your Voice every two years.
Further information on the Groups Remuneration Policy for the Executive From 1 January 2019, the Group has Directors and the Non-Executive Directors adopted an enhanced approach to canbe found on pages 73 to 113. workforce engagement worldwide in order to ensure meaningful and regular dialogue is maintained between the Board and our workforce given its geographical spread, scaleand diversity.
26 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We also offer our UK employees the chance In 2017, we implemented a range of Health and Safety Policy to share in our success via our Sharesave initiatives, such as ensuring drivers carry less Our Health and Safety Policy recognises Scheme, Partnership Share Scheme and stock, together with extra security measures the importance of the health, safety and Share Reward Scheme, and operate several for route planning and vehicle tracking.
welfare of all our employees and thirdsimilar schemes for senior management in We use in-vehicle telematics monitoring party personnel in the conduct of our ourGroup companies.
systems to analyse driver behaviour data, business operations.
We are committed to and use the insights to tailor our training the prevention of injury and ill-health, and Gender pay programmes and improve driving skills and strive for continual improvement in health In 2018, we began publishing data hazard perception.
relating to UK gender pay in line with This policy is supported by our Environmental, In markets where we have recently introduced statutory requirements.
Health and Safety EHS management system, motorcycles, we provide training programmes outlined on page 32.
You can learn more about our published data to reduce risk.
These provide practical techniques relating to UK gender pay in line with statutory for different road conditions and types of Overall responsibility for Group health and requirements at www.
com genderpayreport traffic, safe speeds and distances, and how to safety is held by the Director, Operations.
spot a potential problem and take action to The Director, Group Talent and Culture, Safe place to work deal with it safely.
hasoverall responsibility for all employee Operating in challenging environments andhuman resources matters.
We are pleased to say that our actions are Providing a safe working environment for all producing improvements.
Vehicle-related our employees and contractors is paramount.
incidents fell in 2018 from 73 to 47, primarily Our key performance indicators in this As a global business, operating in diverse due to a reduction in motorcycle incidents.
area include: markets including some of the worlds most In particular, we saw a notable reduction in Lost Workday Case Incident Rate volatile regions, this can also be challenging.
injuries reported across TM&D, down 27%.
LWCIR : There was a decrease in our Safety risks vary across our business.
Nevertheless, the number of fatalities LWCIR from 0.36 in 2017 to 0.27 Our manufacturing sites, for example, carry remained unchanged at 12 in 2018.
This was in 2018. fewer risks, while the vast majority of all partly a result of changing local conditions, Lost workday cases LWC : The number Group accidents are in Trade Marketing & such as increased levels of violence and civil of work-related accidents including Distribution TM&D, which involves the unrest in certain markets where no workforce assaults resulting in injury to employees distribution and sale of our products.
We have fatalities had occurred for many years.
and to contractors under our direct close to 30,000 vehicles and motorcycles out We deeply regret this loss of life and the supervision, causing absence of one shift on the road every day, often in environments suffering caused to friends, family and or more, decreased from 248 in 2017 to with difficult social or economic conditions.
We liaise closely with the relevant 195 in 2018.
Our goods have a high street value, and authorities and conduct our own detailed in a small number of markets this carries Serious injuries and fatalities: The total investigations to determine the root cause high risk of armed robbery and assault.
number of serious injuries and fatalities of each accident, identify any lessons that Poor road infrastructure and wide variations to employees and contractors decreased can be learned and implement action plans, in driving standards and behaviour provide from 78 in 2017 to 53 in 2018. the outcomes of which are reviewed at further challenges.
2017 data has been restated to include Health and Although these challenges will always Safety data for RAI employees and contractors under We are making every effort to further address exist, our goal is zero accidents across the ourdirect supervision.
these challenges in 2019, notably through Group.
To help achieve this, we have a sharing best-practice examples across comprehensive approach based on risk our regions.
management and assessments, employee training and awareness, and tailored initiatives You can read about our Principal Group risk for specific issues.
relating to Health and Safety on page 51 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 27 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued To support this we have International Marketing Principles IMP in place that are Sustainability applied consistently everywhere we operate, even when they are stricter than applicable local tobacco laws.
Sustainability is a key pillar of our Group strategy and In light of our shift to being a multiplays a fundamental role in all aspects of our business.
category business, in 2018 we compiled our responsible marketing standards for Our sustainability agenda was developed through a detailed assessment process that each of our product categories into one set identified the three key areas that have the greatest significanceto our business and of principles under our revised IMP, which our stakeholders.
govern all our product marketing.
All Group companies are required to comply with Harm reduction: we are committed to working to reduce the public health impact of the IMP and compliance is reported and smoking, through offering adult consumers a range of potentially reduced-risk products: monitored through our Control Navigator Sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: we are committed to advancing sustainable process, detailed on page 68. agriculture and working to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply our In 2018, we also launched our revised Youth tobacco leaf: and Access Prevention YAP guidelines that Corporate behaviour: we are committed to operating to the highest standards now cover all our product categories, and ofcorporateconduct and transparency.
broadened their scope to also include markets where our products are distributed through Highlights during the year third parties.
It is now also mandatory for all Launch of the new global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Procedure that mandates both our markets unless there is a government pre-contractual and retrospective due diligence for third-party business providers: ban in place to provide retailers with point-of-sale materials with YAP messaging.
Implementation of a new set of consolidated International Marketing Principles that combine our standards for all our product categories: and Sustainable agriculture and Deployment of a Farmer Sustainability Monitoring tool that identifies and addresses farmer livelihoods problems in real time.
Tobacco leaf remains at the core of our products, even with the growth of PRRPs, Read more about our sustainability performance ineach area at www.
com sustainabilityreport sothe farmers who grow it are crucial to thecontinued success of our business.
We openly share our scientific framework and Harm reduction We have traceability down to the farm level publish peer-reviewed journal articles.
To date, and centralised management of our tobacco Tobacco harm reduction is about encouraging we have published 25 peer-reviewed articles leaf supply chain.
This enables an agile, adult smokers, who wish to continue using on THPs, 23 on vapour products and six efficient and reliable supply of high-quality tobacco or nicotine products, to switch to manuscripts that review them jointly.
We will tobacco leaf to meet consumer demand, potentially lower-risk sources of nicotine as also continue presenting at conferences and while also enhancing the sustainability compared to conventional cigarettes.
We are to government technical advisory committees.
committed to working to reduce the public In 2018, we presented at 24 scientific health impact of smoking through offering In 2018, the Group purchased more than conferences and external meetings.
adult consumers a range of potentially 400,000 tonnes of tobacco leaf: reduced-risk products PRRPs.
High standards and enabling 68% from 18 Group leaf operations, which responsiblegrowth Read about our progress in potentially source from over 90,000 farmers: and Following high standards to ensure quality reducedrisk products on page 21 andconsumer safety is at the heart of 32% from more than 20 third-party everything we do in the design, development Cuttingedge science suppliers, which source from over and manufacturing of our products.
We are always on the lookout for the next We would like to see the same approach cutting-edge technology that will enable us to Read more about Sustainable Agriculture across the whole industry, so, in 2018, we provide adult smokers with more advanced, and Farmer Livelihoods at www.
com continued to advocate for, and collaboratively better-performing PRRPs.
sustainabilityreport contributed to the development of, consistent We are also highly focused on testing and national and international standards and Supporting our farmers validating the reduced-risk potential of these proportionate regulation for PRRPs.
Through our global leaf research and products.
To this aim, and to complement This is essential for giving more smokers the development, we develop new and innovative widely-available third-party science, we have assurances they need to support take-up of farming technologies and techniques, which developed a framework of scientific tests to PRRPs, which can ultimately help to realise are made available to farmers as part of assess the health risks of PRRPs relative to potential benefits for public health.
Marketing responsibly We have a network of expert field technicians In 2018, we embarked on one of our most who provide on-the-ground support, As tobacco consumption presents serious ambitious and large-scale clinical studies, technical assistance and capacity building for health risks, and nicotine is an addictive examining risk indicators among adult all our 90,000 directly contracted farmers, substance, we need to ensure that our smokers who continue smoking, switch to helping them to run successful and profitable marketing is aimed only at adult consumers glo or stop completely.
We expect to publish farms.
Our third-party suppliers provide their and is not designed to engage or appeal initial study results in 2019. own support for all the 260,000 farmers they to youth.
28 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information By supporting farmers in this way, we can The most significant challenges for human Safeguarding human rights help them maximise the potential of their rights abuses are in our tobacco leaf supply With operations and supply chains in many farms and enhance the livelihoods and chain which, as with the wider agricultural diverse and challenging environments around resilience of rural communities.
sector, is recognised by the International the world, human rights are particularly Labour Organization to be particularly important for our business and an area we They and future generations are then vulnerable to these issues due to the sheer have long focused on addressing.
more likely to feel motivated to remain in scale and characteristics, such as large agriculture, look after the environment and In recent years, we have strengthened our numbers of casual and temporary workers, see the value of growing tobacco as part of approach to further align to the United family labour in small-scale farming and high adiverse range of crops.
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and levels of rural poverty.
Setting standards and driving change Human rights challenges in our non We use the industry-wide Sustainable This began with a review of our existing agricultural supply chain depend on the Tobacco Programme STP to conduct due policies and approach to human rights nature of the sector, the type of goods diligence on 100% of our own tobacco leaf management, informed by an independentlyand services supplied, and the country operations and third-party suppliers, which facilitated stakeholder dialogue.
covers issues such as safe working conditions, As a result, in 2014, we incorporated our With the majority of our employees preventing child and forced labour, and Human Rights Policy into our SoBC.
In early working in business areas where we have environmental protection.
2016, we complemented this with the robust oversight and control, human rights We use the results of the self-assessments introduction of our Supplier Code of Conduct, challenges in our own operations are and on-site reviews to work with suppliers which defines the minimum standards substantially avoided.
The challenges that todrive corrective action and improvements.
expected of all our suppliers worldwide, do exist are mitigated by a suite of robust In the event of any serious or persistent including the respect of human rights.
policies, practices and compliance and issues, or where suppliers fail to demonstrate governance procedures that we have in place Having established a strong policy base, a willingness to improve performance, across all Group companies.
we have continued to focus in 2018 on we reserve the right to terminate the enhancing due diligence across our business However, we recognise that we need to business relationship.
Because of the nature of continually work to ensure these are effectively We continue to collaborate with the agricultural supply chains, the greatest risk of applied and that we carefully monitor the industry to refine this programme, and in human rights abuses is within our tobacco leaf situation, particularly in higher-risk countries, 2018 the STP Steering Committee carried supply chain: as a result, we have extensive such as where regulation or enforcement are out a comprehensive review of the STPs due diligence processes in place, asdetailed weak, or there are high levels of corruption, requirements and outcomes to create more on page 30. criminality or unrest.
For our non-agricultural supply chain, we have Our due diligence processes for our business Since implementation in 2016, three rounds long had due diligence processes in place for operations and supply chains enable us: of self-assessment have been completed, with strategic direct product materials suppliers.
to monitor the effectiveness of, and 62 independent on-site reviews, covering However, to more closely align with the compliance with, our Human Rights Policy 100% of our total supply base.
UNGPs and to better manage supply chain commitments under our Standards of Our Thrive programme is based at the challenges and opportunities, we expanded Business Conduct SoBC and our Supplier farm level and takes a more holistic and the scope in 2016 to include all our direct Code of Conduct: and collaborative approach to identifying and materials suppliers, as well as strategic to identify, prevent and mitigate human addressing root causes and long-term indirect suppliers.
rights challenges, impacts and abuses.
challenges, such as rural poverty.
It is based All these suppliers are now assessed according on the  five to independent human rights indices and capitals framework, with strength in all five Our key performance indicators in this area those with the highest risk exposure are demonstrating resilience and enabling farmers focus on the number and results of reviews prioritised for enhanced due diligence.
and rural communities to prosper.
and audits conducted as part of our due As a result, 77% of all our strategic global diligence processes for our suppliers and Since introducing Thrive, we have assessed direct materials suppliers have been business operations.
In 2018: over 280,000 farmers who supply nearly 90% independently audited in the last three years.
of our total tobacco leaf purchases.
We are Independent on-site reviews were now using the results to inform our approach In 2018, a total of 88 non-agricultural suppliers conducted by an external firm on 26 of to selecting and developing new partnerships in 29 countries underwent independent our tobacco leaf suppliers: and community-based projects that will have on-site audits.
As well as directly-contracted Independent audits were conducted a demonstrably positive impact for farmers tier 1 direct suppliers, these also included 17 by external firm Intertek on 88non and their communities.
tier 2 strategic suppliers those from whom agricultural suppliers in 29 countries: and our directly-contracted suppliers buy for Respect for human rights vapour and tobacco heating products, and Group business operations in 26 higherThe Group has a long-standing commitment eight strategic indirect suppliers of factory risk countries underwent enhanced due to respect fundamental human rights, as machinery and point-of-sale marketing diligence to confirm compliance with affirmed by the Universal Declaration of materials in high-risk countries.
applicable Group policies, standards Human Rights.
and controls, and to provide details of Further details of our approach to human any additional local measures in place to rights and our Modern Slavery statement can enhance human rights management.
com msa BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 29 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Human rights in tobacco growing Corrupt practices are illegal, cause distortion Sustainability reporting in markets and harm economic, social Agricultural supply chains are particularly and political development, particularly in susceptible to issues relating to child developing countries.
Our SoBC make it labour and, in 2000, as part of our longclear that it is wholly unacceptable for Group running commitment to end the practice companies, our employees or our business within tobacco farming, we became a partners to be involved or implicated, in any founding board member of the Eliminating way, in corrupt practices.
Child Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT Foundation.
We remain an active member Our SoBC are continually kept under review, today, alongside other major tobacco are fully aligned with the provisions of key companies and leaf suppliers.
ECLT helps to corporate compliance laws including the strengthen communities and bring together Transforming UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Tobacco key stakeholders to develop and implement Sustainability Report 2018 Practices Act, the UK Criminal Finances Act, local and national approaches to tackle and are designed to meet the standards of child labour.
the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery Find out more about our focus on of Foreign Public Officials in International sustainability in our Sustainability We provide training and communications to Report 2018. Business Transactions.
farmers and rural community members to It is available onour corporate website raise awareness of human rights issues, which In 2018, all employees across the Group www.
com sustainabilityreport reached over 134,000 beneficiaries in 2018. completed their annual sign-off of the SoBC, As discussed on page 28, we also run on-the received SoBC-related compliance training Corporate behaviour ground projects in farming communities to and declared any conflicts of interest.
Of this, address root causes, such as rural poverty, in Our actions and behaviour impact all areas over 26,000 management-grade and officecollaboration with local partners.
of our business which is why corporate based employees completed these steps behaviour is such an important focus through the online SoBC portal, including Our operational standard on child labour for ourlong-term sustainability strategy.
completing a tailored online training course prevention was developed with inputs Our commitment to good corporate focusing on ethical decision making and from the ECLT and the International behaviour is underpinned by our Group data security.
This complements Standards of Business Conduct SoBC, or our long-standing Child Labour Policy localised equivalent, which require every and provides detailed guidance regarding Group company and all staff worldwide, our requirements, including the provision including senior management and the Board, of regular training, the conduct of farm to act with a high degree ofbusiness integrity, monitoring and spot-checks, and the comply with applicable laws and regulations, reporting of any incidents of child labour.
and ensure that our standards are not compromised for the sakeof results.
Sustainability: Our policies Summary of areas covered Key stakeholder groups Standards of Business Anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, and entertainment and Employees and contractors Conduct SoBC gifts.
Respect for human rights, including prevention of child labour and Governments and regulators exploitation oflabour, and respect for freedom of association.
Local communities and society Political contributions and charitable contributions.
Financial integrity, accurate accounting and record-keeping, and information security.
Anti-illicit trade, competition and anti-trust, anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance.
Environment Policy Our commitments to carrying out our business in an environmentally Employees and contractors responsible and sustainable way, including agricultural, manufacturing and Suppliers, business partners, distribution operations.
andfarmers Local communities and society Principles for Engagement Our internal standards guiding all engagement activities, underpinning our Employees and contractors commitment to corporate transparency.
Governments and regulators Local communities and society Supplier Code of Conduct Standards required of our suppliers worldwide, including business integrity, Suppliers and business partners anti-bribery and corruption, environmental sustainability and respect for Employees and contractors human rights covering equal opportunities and fair treatment, health and Local communities and society safety, prevention of harassment andbullying, child labour and exploitation of labour, and freedom of association.
Strategic Framework for Sets out our Group corporate social investment strategy and a framework for Local communities and society Corporate Social Investment ourlocal operating companies to implement that strategy.
NGOs and development agencies International Marketing Our internal standards guiding all marketing activities across all product Employees and contractors Principles categories.
Distributors, retailers, customers These policies and procedures are endorsed by our Board and support the effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and issues for our business in these and other areas.
com principles Further details of our Strategic Framework for Corporate Social Investment can be found at www.
com csi 30 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Group Standards of Business Conduct 'Speak Up' channels Delivery with integrity SoBC To increase the accessibility of, and In 2017, we introduced the Groups The SoBC require all staff to act with a high strengthen, our long-standing whistleblowing updatedcompliance programme, degree of integrity, comply with applicable policy and procedures, in early 2018 we Deliverywith Integrity, which focused laws and regulations, and ensure that launched a new third-party managed 'Speak Up' on strengthening and driving a globallystandards are never compromised for the system, which followed from a review of the consistent approach to compliance across sakeof results.
Groups existing whistleblowing procedures theGroup.
All Group companies have adopted the SoBC The programme is led by ourBusiness or local equivalent.
RAI Companies adopted The system includes a website available Conduct & Compliance department, their localised version of the SoBC with effect in multiple languages, and local language reporting directly to the Director, Legal from 1 January 2018, and any instances of hotlines for our markets, and enables & External Affairs and General Counsel.
suspected improper conduct contrary to their improved global oversight of all reported In 2018, this department oversaw the localised SoBC, and established breaches, issues in real time.
successful deployment of several key initiatives have been reported on an aggregated Group The SoBC also includes the Groups to empower employees and business units basis from 2018 onwards.
whistleblowing policy, which enables staff and across the Group to better identify and Information on compliance with the SoBC others to raise concerns, including regarding mitigate challenges related to key compliance is gathered at a regional and global level accounting or auditing matters, in confidence areas such as anti-bribery and anti-corruption and reported to the Regional Audit and and anonymously where they wish, without ABAC laws.
To raise awareness of these issues CSRCommittees, Corporate Audit Committee fear of reprisal.
The Groups whistleblowing with employees, an e-learning was delivered and to the Audit Committee.
policy is supplemented by local procedures to a targeted cross-functional global audience throughout the Group and at the Groups selected on the basis of their potential In the year ended 31 December 2018, 266 London headquarters, providing staff with interaction with government officials.
instances of suspected improper conduct further guidance on reporting matters and Over 2,500 hours of mandatory ABAC training contrary to the SoBC were reported to the raising concerns, and the channels through were logged as a result.
To complement this, Audit Committee 2017: 183. which they can do so.
employee webcasts were also hosted for BAT Of the instances reported, 98 were established managers across the world.
Of the total number of SoBC incidents as breaches and appropriate action taken reported in 2018 set out above, Additionally, to assist business units in 2017: 78.
In 99 cases, an investigation 138 were brought to managements attention identifying SoBC-related issues in particular found no wrongdoing 2017: 75.
In 69 through whistleblowing reports from relating to bribery and corruption in cases, the investigation continued at the employees, ex-employees, third parties or connection with third parties retained by year-end 2017: 30, including investigation, unknown individuals reporting anonymously the Group, a new Third-Party Procedure through external legaladvisers, of allegations 2017: 131. was launched in Q2 2018.
mandates a consistent methodology across Our 'Speak Up' channels www.
com Please refer to page 70 for more information the Group for pre-contractual due diligence speakup enable anyone working for, or with, our about the Audit Committees oversight and on prospective third-party business partners, Group to raise concerns in their local language, in monitoring ofcompliance with the SoBC confidence and without fear of reprisal.
and is complemented by mandatory in 2018. mitigation packages such as training and contractual clauses for medium and highThe SoBC, and information on the total riskthird parties.
number of incidents reported under it, areavailable at www.
This due diligence also provides a retrospective review of third parties with BAT Group SoBC reported incidents which the Group did business before the Year to 31 December 2018 Third-Party Procedure came into effect.
In addition, given the challenges associated with intermediaries engaged to interface with public officials on the Groups behalf, the review for these service providers has been conducted centrally, with external input and independent oversight.
By August 2019, all relevant third parties with which the Group does business globally will have been reviewed.
Read more about our Group risk factor related to corporate behaviour on page 278 Established breach of SoBC 98 No breach of SoBC 99 Ongoing investigation 69 Total 266 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 31 Strategic Management Delivering our strategy continued Environment Community and social initiatives CO e emissions 2 in 000 tonnes We are committed to reducing our As an international business, we play an environmental impact across our supply important role in countries around the chain and operations and our Director, world and have built close ties with local 841 Operations, has overall responsibility for communities.
We encourage our employees environmental management.
to play an active role both in their local and 2.7% lower than 2017 baseline business communities.
Our Environment Policy applies across all our 2018 841 activities including our supply chain.
Our charitable contributions policy in our 2017 864 SoBC is supported by the Group Strategic The Policy is supported by our comprehensive Framework for corporate social investment Definition: Group Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon dioxide Environmental, Health and Safety EHS equivalent CO e emissions CSI, which sets out our Group CSI strategy 2 management system, which has been in place and how we expect our local operating Target: To reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 2 for many years and is based on international companies to develop, deliver and monitor emissions by 30% by 2030 compared to our standards, including ISO 14001.
community investment programmes within Each of our Group companies has an three themes: EHS Steering Committee, with overall Sustainable Agriculture and Environment: Water use environmental responsibility held by the 3 total water withdrawn in mn metres applicable General Manager or site manager.
Empowerment: and EHS is also a standing agenda item for Civic Life.
77 committees at area, regional and global levels.
Our Group Head of Sustainability has Our governance structures raise awareness of oversight of the Group CSI Strategy, and 8.2% lower than 2017 baseline environmental challenges across our business Board-level governance is managed through and our aim is to create a consistent approach our Audit Committee, which reviews the 2018 4.77 across our Group to manage them.
strategy and an analysis of activities including 2017 5.19 investment and alignment to the Groups Definition: Group water use in million cubic metres.
The primary environmental focus areas for our priorities at least once a year.
business include energy use, carbon dioxide 3 Objective: To reduce water use to 3.38 mn metres by CO emissions, water use and availability, Our key performance indicator in this area 2030, 35% lower than our 2017 baseline.
In our supply relates to the total amount of money invested chain, the primary focus areas relate to the in charitable giving and CSI projects.
In 2018, Recycling environmental impacts of tobacco farming.
the Group invested a total of 14.4 million percentage of waste recycled in cash, and a further 1.2 million in-kind Our approach to reducing the environmental charitable contributions and CSI projects, impacts of our operations is long established including 1.04 million given for charitable 90.2% and we have an internal reporting purposes in the UK.
Much of this investment system in place for monitoring Group is delivered through partnerships with environmental performance.
external stakeholders including communities, During 2018 and following on from our NGOs, governments, development agencies, 2018 90.2 acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. RAI, academic institutions, industry associations 2017 89.6 we took the opportunity to review our long and peer companies.
Definition: Total percentage of Group waste re-used or term targets to reflect our new operations recycled against total waste generated.
Having undertaken a full analysis Objective: To recycle 95% or more by 2030 in each year.
of our Scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions we have now established a new 2017 baseline reflective of our enlarged operations and Read about our Group risk factor relating toenvironmental laws on page 276 established new long-term targets including a commitment to setting science-based Further details of our approach to our emissions targets.
reporting methodologycan be found at Our new targets have gained Science-Based www.
com corporatebehaviour scope Targets initiative SBTi formal approval, and we join the ever-growing number of companies that have committed to making significant emissions reductions, in line with the most up-to-date climate science.
Emissions 2018 2017 Scope 1 CO e emissions 000 tonnes 415 427 2 Scope 2 CO e emissions 000 tonnes 426 438 2 As we have expanded our Scope 3 reporting to fully align Scope 3 CO e emissions 000 tonnes n a 8,254 2 with the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol, consolidation and verification for 2018 data is ongoing and is not practical to Total statutory emissions Scope 1 and 2 in 000 tonnes 841 864 report at this time.
The consolidated and verified data will be Intensity tonnes per million of revenue 32.6 34.7 reported in the 2019 Annual Report and Form 20-F. 32 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
