Financial Review Other determination as to whether control Accounting policies Foreign exchange rates subsidiaries, joint control joint The application of the accounting standards The principal exchange rates used to convert arrangements, or significant influence and the accounting policies adopted by the the results of the Groups foreign operations associates exist in relation to investments Group are set out in the Group Manual of to sterling, for the purposes of inclusion and held by the Group: and Accounting Policies and Procedures GMAPP.
consolidation within the Groups financial statements, are indicated in the table below.
review of applicable exchange rates for GMAPP includes the Group instructions in transactions with and translation of entities respect of the accounting and reporting Where the Group has provided results at in territories where there are restrictions of business activities, such as revenue constant rates of exchange this refers to the on the free access to foreign currency recognition, asset valuations and impairment translation of the results from the foreign ormultiple exchange rates.
testing, adjusting items, the accrual of operations at rates of exchange prevailing obligations and the appraisal of contingent in the prior period thereby eliminating the Accounting developments liabilities, which include taxes and litigation.
potentially distorting impact of the movement The Group has prepared its annual Formal processes are in place whereby central in foreign exchange on the reported results.
consolidated financial statements in management and end-market management accordance with IFRS.
Going concern confirm adherence to the principles and the procedures and to the completeness of A description of the Groups business Other than as stated below, there were no reporting.
Central analyses and revision of activities, its financial position, cash flows, further material changes to the accounting information are also performed to ensure and liquidity position, facilities and borrowings standards applied in 2018 from those applied confirm adherence.
position, together with the factors likely to in 2017. affect its future development, performance In order to prepare the Groups consolidated IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 and position, are set out in this Annual Report financial information in accordance with Revenue from Contracts with Customers and Form20-F. IFRS, management has used estimates became effective from 1 January 2018, and and assumptions that affect the reported The key Group risks include analyses of the impact of these changes is also disclosed amounts of revenue, expenses, assets and the financial risk and the Groups approach in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts.
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date tofinancial risk management.
Notes 20 and IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 of the financial statements.
23 in the Notes on the Accounts provide with a mandatory effective date of 1 January further detail on the Groups borrowings The critical accounting estimates are described 2019.
The effect is that virtually all leasing andmanagement of financial risks.
in note 1 in the Notes on the Accounts arrangements are brought on to the balance and include: The Group has, at the date of this report, sheet as financial obligations and right-to-use sufficient existing financing available for assets.
The impact of applying the Standard to review of asset values, including goodwill its estimated requirements for at least the the Groups reported profit in 2018, 2017 or and impairment testing: next 12 months.
This, together with the 2016 would not have been material.
Had the estimation and accounting for retirement proven ability to generate cash from trading Standard been applied to the 2018 accounts, benefit costs: activities, the performance of the Groups non-current assets and liabilities would have Strategic Portfolio, its leading market positions each been increased by 564 million at the estimation of provisions, including as related in a number of countries and its broad start of the year.
At the end of the year, nonto taxation and legal matters: and geographical spread, as well as numerous current assets would have been increased by estimation of the fair values of acquired net contracts with established customers and 551 million and non-current liabilities by assets arising in a business combination.
suppliers across different geographical areas 558 million.
The impact of adopting IFRS 16 and industries, provides the Directors with the with effect from 1 January 2019 is shown in The critical accounting judgements are confidence that the Group is well placed to note 31 in the Notes on the Accounts.
described in note 1 in the Notes on the manage its business risks successfully in the Accounts and include: Future changes applicable on the accounting context of current financial conditions and standards that will be applied by the Group identification and quantification of thegeneral outlook in the global economy.
areset out in note 1 in the Notes on adjusting items: After reviewing the Groups annual budget, the Accounts.
