Overview Our strategic framework for transforming tobacco Our strategy remains as relevant today to drive our transforming tobacco ambition as it was when it was firstrolled out in 2012.
It enables us to continue delivering value growth while driving the investment required to deliver our transformational agenda.
Our vision remains clear: while combustible tobacco products will remain at the core of our business for some time to come, we understand that long-term sustainability will be delivered by our transforming tobacco ambition.
08 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our vision Our mission Strategic focus areas Worlds best at satisfying Delivering our commitments Our four key focus areas remain consumermoments in to society, while championing fundamental to our strategy tobaccoand beyond.
aswe focus on our transforming tobacco ambition.
Our consumers are at the core of everything We have long known that, as a major Growth page 20 we do and our success depends on addressing international business, we have a responsibility their preferences, concerns and behaviours.
to address societal issues with our tobacco Constantly developing our portfolio of products, and that, as our business continues potentially reduced-risk products and We know that consumer preferences to grow, so does our influence and the new technologies while continuing to are fragmenting and evolving at an responsibility that comes with it.
drive revenue growth from our traditional unprecedented pace, and consequently, combustible products.
we are focusing on providing a range of We are also clear that we have a duty to our tobacco and nicotine products across the shareholders to ensure we continue to deliver Productivity page 22 risk spectrum.
In addition, we understand today and invest for a sustainable future and that to succeed in this space we need to to our consumers to provide, in addition Effectively deploying resources between continue enhancing our understanding of to our combustible products, a range of product categories and managing our our consumers preferences in order to drive potentially reduced-risk products PRRPs.
costbase to release funds for investment.
development of new and innovative products.
Our transforming tobacco ambition, with its Winning organisation page 24 core objective of providing adult consumers with more choice, more innovation and less Ensuring we have great people with the risk will allow us to: satisfy these consumers: right skill sets in the right teams to drive address societal concerns through the thetransformation ofour business.
growth of multiple categories ofpotentially Sustainability page 28 reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine products: and provide a sustainable, profitable future Ensuring a sustainable business that meets the forour shareholders.
expectations of all our various stakeholders.
Read about our industry page 15 Guiding Principles Our Guiding Principles provide clarity about what we stand for.
They form the core of our culture and guide how we deliver our strategy.
Enterprising spirit Freedom through responsibility Open minded Strength from diversity We value enterprise from all of We give our people the Our corporate culture is a great Our management population our employees across the world, freedom to operate in their local strength of the business and one comprises people from over giving us a great breadth of ideas environment, providing them of the reasons we have been, and 140nations, giving us unique and viewpoints to enhance the with the benefits of our scale but will continue to be, successful.
insights into local markets and way we do business.
We have also the ability to succeed locally.
We are forward-looking and enhancing our ability to compete the confidence to pursue growth We always strive to do the right anticipate consumer preferences, across the world.
We respect and and new opportunities while thing, and this freedom enables winning with innovative, highcelebrate each others differences accepting the considered us to act in the best interests of quality products.
We listen to, and enjoy working together.
entrepreneurial risk that comes our consumers while exercising and genuinely consider, other We harness diversity of our with it.
We are bold and strive to our responsibility to society and perspectives and changing social people, cultures, viewpoints, overcome challenges.
This is the other stakeholders.
We are open to brands, markets and ideas to cornerstone of our success.
We value what makes each of us unique.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 09
