Business Environment Business Environment Principal Group risks A summary of all the risk factors including the Overview Time frame principal risks which are monitored by the The principal risks that may affect the Group Short term Board through the Groups risk register is set are set out on the following pages.
out in the Additional disclosures section on Medium term Each risk is considered in the context of the pages 270 to 284.
Long term Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic @ Assessment of Group risk Report on pages 8 and 9.
Following a Strategic impact description of each risk, its potential impact During the year, the Directors have carried Growth and management by the Group is out a robust assessment of the principal risks summarised.
Clear accountability is attached and uncertainties facing the Group, including Productivity to each risk through the risk owner.
those that would threaten its business model, Winning organisation future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Group has identified risks and is actively monitoring and taking action to manage the Sustainability The principal risks facing the Group have risks.
This section focuses on those risks that remained broadly unchanged over the past the Directors believe to be the most important @ year with regards to Marketplace, Excise and Considered in viability statement after assessment of the likelihood and Tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation Yes potential impact on the business.
Due to improved pricing delivery these risks are within the control of the Group over recent years and better geographical No and other risks besides those listed may affect diversity following the acquisition of RAI the Groups performance.
Some risks may be the inability to obtain price increases and unknown at present.
Other risks, currently impact of increases on consumer affordability regarded as less material, could become thresholds is no longer a principal risk.
The viability statement below provides a The risks listed in this section and the activities broader assessment of long-term solvency being undertaken to manage them should and liquidity.
The Directors have considered be considered in the context of the Groups a number of factors that may affect the internal control framework.
This is described resilience of the Group.
Except for the risk in the section on risk management and injury, illness or death in the work place the internal control in the corporate governance Directors have also assessed the potential statement on pages 68 to 70.
This section impact of the principal risks that may impact should also be read in the context ofthe the Groups viability.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part cautionary statement on page 296. ofBATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
@ Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, owing to the inherent uncertainty arising due to ongoing litigation and regulation the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability is three years.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Groups continued strong cash generation from operating activities.
This assessment included a robust review of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability as indicated on pages 49 to 52 which are considered, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short-term 1-2 year financial forecasts, 2-3 year capacity plans and longer-term strategic planning.
The assessment included reverse stress testing core drivers that underpin the specific risks to ensure the business is able to continue in operation, whilst not breaching the required gross interest cover of 4.5 times see page 39.
Each impact would, individually, have to be between 5 times and 10 times worse than a prudent annual forecast, or would all have to arise simultaneously with no mitigating or corrective actions to affect the Groups ability to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
Due to the level of borrowings carried on the balance sheet, the Group may be exposed to movements in interest rates.
The Directors noted that, as stated in note 23 in the Notes on the Accounts, the Group sets a minimum of 50% of interest rate as fixed on shortto medium-term borrowings, minimising the risk of interest rate fluctuation impacting viability over the period.
At 31 December 2018, the ratio of floating to fixed rate borrowings was 21:79 2017: 19:81.
The Directors noted that the Group would be able to adjust certain capital requirements, including but not limited to the investment in the Groups manufacturing infrastructure in the short term and the 6 billion credit facility 2018 undrawn, to mitigate the impact of the effect ofthe above principal risks, each of which have specific mitigation activities as disclosed on pages 49 to 52.
The Group is subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, whilst it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal may be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
48 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risks Competition from illicittrade Increased competition from illicit trade either local duty evaded, smuggled illicit white cigarettes or counterfeits.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand equity, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global and country levels: internal cross-functional levels: best practice shared.
Reduced ability to take price increases.
Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a range of AIT issues.
Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
AIT Engagement Team including a dedicated analytical laboratory works with enforcement agencies in pursuit ofpriority targets.
Tobacco, nicotine and other regulation inhibits growth strategy The enactment of regulation that significantly impairs the Groups ability to communicate, differentiate, market or launch its products.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth and Sustainability Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand value through commoditisation, the inability to Engagement and litigation strategy coordinated and aligned across launch innovations, differentiate products, maintain or build brand the Group to drive a balanced global policy framework for the equity and leverage price.
Regulation in respect of menthol may adversely impact individual Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust brand portfolios.
compelling advocacy materials with supporting evidence and data and regulatory engagement programmes.
Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate tobacco or nicotine industry and also with increased illicit trade.
Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure decisions are informed by an understanding of the potential Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications, regulatory environments.
leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illicit trade.
Advocating the application of integrated regulatory proposals to Shocks to share price on the announcement or enactment of governments and public health practitioners based on the harm restrictive regulation.
Reduced ability to compete in future product categories and make Development of an integrated regulatory strategy thatspans new market entries.
conventional combustibles and Next Generation Products.
Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes in new regulation leading to higher costs, greater complexity and potential reputational damage or fines forinadvertent breach.
Proposed EU Directive on single-use plastics could result in increased operational costs and or a decline in sales volume.
Please refer to pages 285 to 288 for details of tobacco and nicotine regulatory regimes under which the Groups businesses operate.
Market size reduction and consumer down trading The Group is faced with steep excise-led price increases and, due in part to the continuing difficult economic and regulatory environment in many countries, market contraction and consumer down-trading is a risk.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Volume decline and portfolio mix erosion.
Geographic spread mitigates impact at Group level.
Funds to invest in growth opportunities are reduced.
Close monitoring of portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring balanced portfolio of strong brands across key segments.
Overlap with many mitigation activities undertaken for other principal risks facing the Group, such as competition from illicit tobacco trade and significant excise increases or structure changes.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 49 Business Environment Principal Group risks continued Risks continued Litigation Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost or compromised resulting in a material loss or other consequence.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation, disruption Consistent litigation strategy across the Group.
andloss of focus on the business.
Expertise and legal talent maintained both within the Group and Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position external partners.
could be materially affected, in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, Ongoing monitoring of key legislative, case law and by region or country, by an unfavourable outcome or settlement of tobacco developments.
Inability to sell products as a result of a successful patent infringement action may restrict growth plans and competitiveness.
Please refer to note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts for details ofcontingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, civil unrest, terrorism and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the Groups business inmultiple markets.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal Physical and procedural security controls are in place, and constantly business processes.
reviewed in accordance with our SRM process, for all field force and supply chain operations, with an emphasis on the protection Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements ofGroup employees.
and or the cost of building new facilities ormaintaining inefficient facilities.
Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency sourcing arrangements.
Lower volumes as a result of not being able to trade in a country.
Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy developments worldwide.
Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario planning and testing, and risk awareness training.
Disputed taxes, interest and penalties The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputedarea.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due todiversion Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, ofmanagement time.
andexternal advice sought where needed.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
50 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Significant increases or structural changes in tobacco related taxes The Group is exposed to unexpected and or significant increases or structural changes in tobacco-related taxes in key markets.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing forproducts from illicit sources orcheaper alternatives.
and excise strategies, including contingency plans, with annual risk assessments.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees in markets, with Reduced sales volume and or portfolio erosion.
Partial absorption of excise increases.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate, in particular in relation to the increased risk to excise revenues from higher illicit trade.
Portfolio reviews to ensure appropriate balance and coverage acrossprice segments.
Monitoring of economic indicators, government revenues and the political situation.
Foreign exchange rate exposures The Group faces translational and transactional foreign exchange FX rate exposure for earnings cash flows from its global business.
@ Considered in viability statement Time frame Strategic impact Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact volatility in reported Earnings per share EPS, cash flow and the isidentifiedin results presentations and financial disclosures: balance sheet driven bytranslation into sterling of our financial results earningsare re-stated at constant rates for comparability.
and these exposures are not normally hedged.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
volatility where possible and economic to do so.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may affect Hedging strategy for transactional FX and framework is defined in key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
thetreasury policy, a global policy approved by the Board.
Volatility and or increased costs in our business, due to transactional Illiquid currencies of many markets where hedging iseither not FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
possible or uneconomic are reviewed on aregular basis.
Injury, illness or death in the work place The risk of injury, death or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is a fundamental concern of the Group and can have asignificant effect on its operations.
@ Considered in viability statement Time frame Strategic impact Short term Sustainability No @ Impact Mitigation activities Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered by employees Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment andinfrastructure and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution from An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels receive enforcement bodies and the cost ofassociated fines and or penalties.
appropriate EHS training and information.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed immediately.
Behavioural-based safety programme to drive Operations safety performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees ifperceived tohave a poor Environment, Health and Safety EHS record.
Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally by a dedicated team to identify increasing incident trends or high Reputational damage to the Group.
potential risks that require coordinated action.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 51 Business Environment Principal Group risks continued Risks continued Solvency and liquidity Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to maintaining the Group as a going concern in the short term liquidity andmedium term solvency.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Inability to fund the business under the current capital structure Group policies include a set of financing principles and key resulting in missed strategic opportunities or inability to respond performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, to threats.
interest cover, solvency and liquidity with regular reporting to the Board.
Decline in our creditworthiness and increased funding costs for the Group.
The Group targets an average centrally managed debt maturity of atleast five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt Requirement to issue equity or seek new sources of capital.
maturing in a single rolling year.
Reputational risk of failure to manage the financial risk profile The Group, through B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. holds a twoofthebusiness, resulting in an erosion of shareholder value tranche revolving credit facility of 6 billion syndicated across a wide reflectedinan underperforming share price.
This consists of a 364-day revolving credit facility of 3 billion with a one-year term-out option, and a 3 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2021.
Liquidity pooling structures are in place to ensure that there is maximum mobilisation of cash liquidity within the Group.
The Group has an externally imposed capital requirement for its centrally managed banking facilities of maintaining gross interest cover above 4.5 times.
The Group targets a gross interest cover ofgreater than 5 times.
Going concern and viability support papers are presented to theBoard on a regular basis.
Inability to develop, commercialise and roll out Potentially Reduced Risk Products Risk of not capitalising on the opportunities in developing and commercialising successful and consumer-appealing innovations.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Failure to deliver Group strategic imperative and 2020 Focus on product stewardship to ensure high-quality standards growth ambition.
Potentially missed opportunities, unrecoverable costs and or erosion Collaboration between internal legal, external affairs and R&D of brand.
in order to identify current and future regulations and align the innovation pipeline.
Reputational damage and recall costs may arise in the event of defective product design or manufacture.
Loss of market share due to non-compliance of product portfolio with regulatory requirements.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by Paul McCrory, Company Secretary.
52 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
