Strategic Management Our business model At the centre of our g lobal business, operating in Source over 200 markets, is the What we do While the Group does not own tobacco farms manufacture and marketing or directly employ farmers, we buy more than of superior combustible 400,000 tonnes of tobacco leaf each year for our combustible tobacco products, our oral tobacco products and tobacco products and our THPs.
potentially reduced-risk Our people and What makes us different products PRRPs.
We provide on-the-ground support and relationships advice to over 90,000 contracted farmers to These include vapour, tobacco heating help ensure consistency and quality of supply.
products THPs, modern oral as well as We employ over 60,000 people traditional oral products, such as moist worldwide, with a workforce that We invest over 60 million each year in our snuff and traditional snus.
LeafResearch & Development and support farmers through our Extension Services.
Our sustainable approach to sourcing, We have a devolved structure, production, distribution and marketing with each local company having Our leaf operations are managed globally helps us to create value for a wide responsibility for its operations.
toensure that the Group works with reliable, group of stakeholders, from farmers efficient and responsible farmers in our The quality of our people is a major to consumers.
reason why the Group continues We use our unique strengths and toperform well.
In return, we The e-liquids used in our vapour products employ our resources and relationships committo investing in our people aremade from medical grade nicotine to deliver sustainable growth in aswe do inour brands.
sourcedinternally or from high-quality earnings forour shareholders.
We encourage a culture ofpersonal ownership and we value our For more information on the structure of the Group, see page 254 employees talents and abilities.
Their diverse perspectives helpus to succeed.
see pages 28 to 30 We also have excellent for more details relationshipswith a range of stakeholders, including farmers, suppliers, retailers and distributors.
We engage with regulators around the world to support regulation that is based on robust evidence Market and thorough research, that What we do respects legalrights and livelihoods We offer adult consumers a range of products and deliverson the intended including cigarettes, vapour, tobacco heating policy aims while recognising products, and oral products in a number of unintended consequences.
Our range of highYou can learn more quality products covers all segments, from about ourwork in value-for-money to premium.
supporting farmers in our leaf supply chain at What makes us different www.
com farmervideo Our successful portfolio of international, orwww.
com regional and local brands across four product welcometobat categories continues to meet a broad array of adult consumer preferences, including those see pages 24 to 32 for Nonfinancial information more information seeking potentially lower-risk alternatives totraditional cigarettes.
Our people and culture: pages 24 to 27 Our Strategic Portfolio accounts for over 60% of the cigarettes wesell and is asignificant driver of growth.
Respect for human rights: pages 28 to 32 We ensure that all our products are marketed responsibly: as such, our marketing Anticorruption and antibribery: initiatives and activities are governed by our pages30 and 31 International Marketing Principles, which often go beyond local legal requirements.
Environmental matters: page 32 see pages 20 to 21 Community and social matters: page 32 for more details 18 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Produce What we do We manufacture high-quality cigarettes, THP consumables and oral products in facilities all over the world.
We also ensure that these products and the tobacco leaf we purchase are in the right place at the right time.
Our vapour and tobacco heating product devices are manufactured in a Resources mix of our own and third-party factories.
We work to ensure that our costs are globally competitive forsuccess and that we use our resources as effectively as possible.
Innovation We make significant investments What makes us different in research and development to In 2018, we had 55 factories, 47 of which deliver innovations that satisfy or produce cigarettes.
These strategically placed anticipate consumer preferences factories enable us to maximise efficiency and andgenerate growth for the ensure products are where they need to be at business across all categories.
The main focus of this investment Our production facilities producing cigarettes is in our PRRPs.
We continue to and the consumables for our THPs are invest in the development and designed to meet the needs of an agile and commercialisation of potentially flexible supply chain, providing a world-class lower-risk alternatives to smoking.
operational base that isfit for the future.
We also conduct R&D into our conventional cigarette innovations Consumers For our vapour and tobacco heating product such as capsule products, additivedevices, we expect our contract manufacturers We place consumers at free products, slimmer products, to comply with the same high standards that the centre of our business.
tube filters and Reloc, our resealable exist on our own sites.
We invest in world-class research pack technology.
to understand changing see pages 22 and 23 World class science for more details consumer preferences and We have an extensive scientific buying behaviour.
This drives research programme in a broad our leaf sourcing, product spectrum of scientific fields development, innovations, including molecular biology, brands andtrade activities.
We are We aim to satisfy consumers with transparent about our science Distribute arange of inspiring products and publish details of our research across the risk spectrum and What we do programmes on our dedicated address expectations about how We distribute our products around the globe website, www.
effectively and efficiently using a variety of andthe results of our studies in different distribution models suited to local peer-reviewed journals.
Around half of our global cigarette volume is sold by retailers, You can take a video tour inside our state of the art supplied through our direct distribution capability plant biotechnology or exclusive distributors.
We continuously review labsand meet some of the our route to market for both combustible scientists behind the science and PRRPs, including our relationships with at www.
com wholesalers, distributors and logistics providers.
welcometobat What makes us different Our relationships with, and efficient distribution see pages 21, 22 and 28 formore information to, retailers worldwide ensure we can offer the products our adult consumers wish to buy, where and when they want them.
Our global footprint and direct distribution capabilities enable new product innovations to be distributed to markets quickly and efficiently.
see pages 22 and 23 for more details BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 19
