Contents Strategic Report Overview British American Tobacco p. l. c. No.
3407696 Annual Report 2018 Transforming Tobacco 01 This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts of British American Tobacco Chairmans introduction 07 p. l. c. the Company and the British American Tobacco Group prepared in accordance with Our strategic framework for transforming tobacco 08 UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F prepared in accordance with the US Our year in numbers 10 Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act for the year ended 31 December 2018, except that certain phrases, paragraphs or similar sections denoted with a @ symbol do Strategic Management not form part of the Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC and certain phrases, Chief Executives review 12 paragraphs or similar sections denoted with a symbol do not form part of the Annual Finance Directors overview 14 Report and Accounts.
Moreover, the information in this document may be updated or Global market overview 15 supplemented only for purposes of the Annual Report on Form 20-F at the time of filing with the SEC or later amended if necessary.
Any such updates, supplements or amendments will Our global business 16 also be denoted with a symbol.
Insofar as this document constitutes the Annual Report Our business model 18 and Accounts, it has been drawn up and is presented in accordance with, and reliance upon, Delivering our strategy 20 applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with this Financial Review report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Financial performance summary 33 This document is made up of the Strategic Report, the Governance Report, the Financial Statements and Notes, and certain additional information.
Our Strategic Report, pages Income statement 34 1 to 52, includes our vision and strategy, global market overview, business model, global Treasury and cash flow 39 performance, as well as our financial performance and principal group risks.
The Strategic Other 42 Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Paul Regional review 43 McCrory, Company Secretary.
Our Governance Report on pages 53 to 114 contains detailed corporate governance information, our Committee reports and our Responsibility Business Environment of Directors.
The Directors Report on pages 53 to 72 the Governance pages, page 114 Principal Group risks 48 @ Responsibility of Directors and 253 to 321 the Additional disclosure and Shareholder information pages has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf byPaulMcCrory, Company Secretary.
Our Financial Statements and Notes are on pages 115 Governance to 252.
The Other Information section commences on page 253.
Directors Report This document provides alternative performance measures APMs which are not defined Chairmans introduction 53 or specified under the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
We believe these APMs provide readers with important additional information on our Board of Directors 54 business.
This year, we have included a Non-GAAP measures section on pages 258 to Management Board 56 266 which provides a comprehensive list of the APMs that we use, an explanation of how Leadership and effectiveness 57 theyare calculated, why we use them and a reconciliation tothe most directly comparable Board activities in 2018 58 IFRS measure where relevant.
Board effectiveness 60 BAT has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange BATS and the Johannesburg Audit Committee 64 StockExchange BTI, and, as American Depositary Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange BTI.
Nominations Committee 71 Remuneration Report 73 The Annual Report is published on www.
A printed copy is mailed to shareholders @ on the UK main register who have elected to receive it.
Otherwise, shareholders are notified Responsibility of Directors 114 that the Annual Report is available on the website and will, at the time of that notification, receive a short Performance Summary which sets out an overview of the Groups performance, headline facts and figures and key dates in the Companys financial calendar Financial Statements and Proxy Form.
Group Financial Statements Specific local mailing and or notification requirements will apply to shareholders onthe Independent auditors report 115 South Africa branch register.
Group companies and undertakings 236 References in this publication to British American Tobacco, BAT, Group, we, usand @ Parent Company financial statements 246 our when denoting opinion refer to British American Tobacco p. l. c. and when denoting tobacco business activity refer to British American Tobacco Group operating companies, collectively or individually as the case may be.
Other Information The material in this Annual Report is provided for the purpose of giving information about the Company to investors only and is not intended for general consumers.
The Company, Additional disclosures 253 its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to Shareholder information 297 any other person to whom this material is shown or into whose hands it may come andany such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The material in this Annual Report is notprovided for product advertising, promotional or marketing purposes.
This material doesnot constitute and should not be construed as constituting an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any of our products.
Our products are sold only incompliancewith the laws of the particular jurisdictions in which they are sold.
References in this document to information on websites, including the web address of BAT, More available online at More available online at have beenincluded as inactivetextual references only.
These websites and the information bat.
com investors contained therein orconnected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into or to form part of the AnnualReport and Form 20-F. Cautionary statement This document contains forward-looking statements.
For our full cautionary statement, please see page 296. www www.
com investors BA BAT IR app T IR app BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
