DIRECTORS A DIVERSE LEADERSHIP TEAM Committee membership key Chairman Member A Audit Committee M Management Engagement Committee N Nomination Committee D Disclosure Committee A M N D A M N D SUSAN NOBLE STEVEN BATES Attendance at meetings Independent Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID Management 1 Length of Service: Name Board Audit Engagement Nomination Disclosure 6 years Length of Service: Susan 2 Noble 7 7 6 6 2 2 3 3 12 years Appointed Chairman: Strone 2 Macpherson 2 2 3 3 1 1 2 2 2017 Appointed SID: Anja November 2012 Ms Noble succeeded Strone Macpherson Balfour 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 1 Steven as Chairman in December 2017.
Mr Bates will retire at this year's AGM.
Bates 7 7 6 6 2 2 4 4 External appointments: External appointments: Nigel Rich 7 7 6 6 2 2 4 4 Chair of Newton Investment Management Chairman of VinaCapital Vietnam Opportunity Calum Limited and Newton Capital Management Fund Limited and of F&C Capital & Income 3 Thomson 7 7 6 6 2 2 3 4 Limited, an Associate Director of Manchester Investment Trust plc and a Director of Biotech Square Partners and a Trustee of the Hospice Growth Trust PLC, of GuardCap UCITs Fund The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings each was entitled to attend.
plc and of Magna Umbrella Fund plc.
He is also 1 a Director of GuardCap Asset Management Generally meets on short notice.
No meetings were held Experience: during the year.
Limited, an investment management company 2 Formerly Chair of Alliance Trust Investments, Mrs Noble and Mr Macpherson were not present at the specialising in emerging markets.
Nomination Committee meeting where the succession a Director of Alliance Trust plc, a Managing of the Chairman was discussed.
Director of Goldman Sachs Asset He sits on, or is adviser to, various 3 Mr Thomson was not present at one of the Nomination Management, Head of European Equities committees in the wealth management Committee meetings due to illness.
and Head of Global Equities.
Also a Director and pension fund areas.
Appointed 1 January 2018. and Senior European Portfolio Manager at Experience: Robert Fleming Asset Management.
He was Head of Global Emerging Markets Last re-elected to the Board: at JP Morgan Asset Management until 2002.
2017 Last re-elected to the Board: Remuneration: 2017 38,500 Remuneration: Employment by the Investment Manager: 27,800 None Employment by the Investment Manager: Other connections with the None Company or Investment Manager: Other connections with the None Company or Investment Manager: Shared Directorships with any None other Company Directors: Shared Directorships with any None other Company Directors: Shareholding in Company: None 13,630 Ordinary Shares Shareholding in Company: 20,000 Ordinary Shares 36 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information A M N D A M N D A M N D CALUM THOMSON FCA NIGEL RICH CBE, FCA ANJA BALFOUR Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Length of Service: Length of Service: Length of Service: 1 year 6 years 10 months Appointed Audit Committee Chairman: External appointments: External appointments: June 2017 Non-Executive Director of Matheson & Co Ltd, Director of Martin Currie Asia Unconstrained Non-Executive Chairman of Urban Logistics Trust plc, Schroder Japan Growth Fund External appointments: REIT plc and Chairman of The Tobacco plc, F&C Global Smaller Companies plc and Non-Executive Director and Audit Chairman Pipemakers and Tobacco Trade Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.
of The Diverse Income Trust plc, The Bank Benevolent Fund.
of London and The Middle East plc, BLME Experience: Holdings plc, Standard Life Private Equity Trust, Experience: Over 20 years experience in managing and Baring Emerging Europe plc, Non-Executive Formerly Chairman of SEGRO plc, Xchanging Japanese and International Equity portfolios Director of Schroder Unit Trusts Limited and plc, Ocean Group Exel plc, CP Ships Limited for Stewart Ivory, Baillie Gifford and Axa Schroder Pension Management Limited and and Hamptons Group Limited and Director Framlington.
Previously a trustee of Venture Chairman of the Board of Trustees of of Pacific Asset Trust plc, Granada plc and Scotland.
Also formerly Managing Director of Appointed to the Board: Jardine Matheson Holdings and the Group Experience: January 2018 Chief Executive, Trafalgar House plc.
A qualified accountant with over 25 years Remuneration: experience in the financial services industry, Last re-elected to the Board: 25,300 including 21 years as audit partner at 2017 Deloitte LLP, specialising in the asset Employment by the Investment Manager: Remuneration: management sector.
None 25,300 Elected to the Board: Other connections with the Employment by the Investment Manager: 2017 Company or Investment Manager: None None Remuneration: Other connections with the 29,700 Shared Directorships with any Company or Investment Manager: other Company Directors: Employment by the Investment Manager: None None None Shared Directorships with any Shareholding in Company: Other connections with the other Company Directors: 7,300 Ordinary Shares Company or Investment Manager: None None Shareholding in Company: Shared Directorships with any 18,000 Ordinary Shares other Company Directors: 3,000 held by Cynthia Rich.
None Shareholding in Company: 8,898 Ordinary Shares British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 37
