INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS AKER DIGITAL GARAGE 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Holding Company 92% Investment Holding Company 49% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 2.2% 91% SOLD 48% Discount 3 3 Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -13.5% 3.43% n a 1.35% % of investee company 4 4 ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 0.5% 168% SOLD 65% Aker was just as in 2016 the most significant driver of returns this Despite being held for just seven months of the year, Digital Garage year.
Since 2008, our investment in Aker has been predicated on the was the second largest contributor to performance, returning 48% and attractive value and growth of its underlying businesses: the controlling contributing 1.35%.
The strong returns benefited from a combination familys proven M&A track record: and Akers at times very wide of NAV growth 37% and a contraction in the discount from 16% at discount to NAV.
In the last year, a confluence of all of these factors the start of the year to the sub-10% level at which we sold the shares.
with the tailwind of a buoyant oil price helped Aker contribute 3.43% We first made an investment in Digital Garage in March 2016, noting to your Companys performance.
its wide discount and the lack of recognition by the market of its two NAV growth at 90% was very strong.
This was led by Aker BP 77% key unlisted assets: a data-driven marketing business and a financial of NAV, whose share price advanced 133% during a year in which it settlement service.
These assets had achieved double-digit earnings successfully completed the acquisition of Hesss Norwegian division.
growth over the preceding five years, benefiting from increased The transaction, finalised in October 2017, included income-producing demand for digital advertising and a shift to cashless payments.
assets in the form of Hess Norways 64% and 63% shares in the Despite this, their implied valuation, excluding the 20% stake in listed Valhall and Hod fields, as well as a US$1.5bn tax loss carry forward Kakaku, was negative.
Our analysis concluded they were worth far asset.
Aker subscribed to 40% of the new equity raised by Aker more, and that Digital Garage traded at a discount in excess of 33% BP, highlighting the way in which holding companies can support to its net asset value.
value-creation at their portfolio companies.
This modus operandi of Over our two year holding period, the marketing and financial selectively targeted M&A with the support of Akers balance sheet has settlement business grew earnings by 53% and 62% respectively, helped Aker BP grow into one of the largest independent Exploration which led to NAV growth of 31% and more than offset Kakakus & Production companies in Europe following the acquisition of lacklustre -2% return.
We exited the position on a 9% discount Marathon Oil Norge and BP Norge in 2014 and 2016.
With the Johan compared to an average purchase discount of 31%, recognising a Sverdrup field due to come on line in 2019, we remain attracted to 44% IRR compared to the TOPIXs 23% over the same period.
the prospect of continued growth in NAV.
While our conviction in the quality of these assets remained, we As well as NAV growth, Aker benefited from continued discount believed the prospects for potential growth in NAV were more than narrowing from 29% to 14%, adding a powerful fillip to returns.
offset by the downside risk of discount widening.
As such, we exited Understanding the interplay of different factors that lead to discount our position in favour of more compelling opportunities elsewhere in narrowing is invariably more of an art than a science, but the 46% the portfolio.
Our concerns proved valid, with the discount widening increase in the price of Brent crude to above US$80 per barrel, Akers to 23% at the end of the year.
13% dividend increase and value-accretive M&A at Aker BP provided both macro and micro stimuli supportive of tighter discount ranges.
We have held Aker since 2008, with a weighted-average discount on purchases during that period of 42%.
In 2018, the position was trimmed significantly by 70% on much tighter discounts, with a weighted-average discount on our sales of 18%.
Aker closed the year as a 2.4% position, trading on a 14% discount.
1 % of total assets less current liabilities.
2 Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
3 Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal quoted total return over the financial year.
4 Figure quoted in GBP terms.
Refer to Glossary on page 88 for further details.
22 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information AKER AKER BP Although its roots can be traced back to the formation of Norways first oil company in 1971, Aker BP in its current form was established just two years ago through the merger of Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA and BP Norge.
Aker BP operates as a fully-fledged oil company, involved in the exploration, development and production of petroleum resources on the Norwegian continental shelf.
Measured by production, Aker BP is one the largest independent oil companies in Europe.
2.2% % of total assets less current liabilities Source Aker BP British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 23 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW PERSHING SQUARE HOLDINGS CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL Chipotle Mexican Grill operates in the fast-casual dining segment, offering customers a range of all-natural Mexican-themed food, with a focus on burritos and tacos.
Founded in 1993 with a single restaurant, the brand rapidly expanded across the United States and today operates over 2,400 restaurants.
Pershing Square invested in Chipotle in September 2016 following a near-50% share price decline driven by an e-coli outbreak, with the rationale being that the opportune time to buy into a quality business is when temporary factors are depressing the share price.
6.5% % of total assets less current liabilities Source Chipotle Mexican Grill 24 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information CONTRIBUTORS PERSHING SQUARE HOLDINGS JPEL PRIVATE EQUITY 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Company 15% Investment Company 15% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 6.5% 18% 4.0% 18% 3 3 Discount Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -24.4% 1.19% -17.5% 0.94% 4 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 1.3% 3% 17.5% 81% Pershing Square Holdings PSH generated an 18% share price total JPEL Private Equity JPEL was one of our largest contributors over return, boosting British Empires NAV by 1.19%.
The 24% discount the year to September 2018, generating a total return of 18% and ended the year where it started, although it swung in a wide range contributing 0.94% to returns.
The discount narrowed marginally over between 16% to 26%, and the NAV rose by 18% driven by strong the period from 20% to 18%, driven by strong share price growth performances from Automatic Data Processing 24% of NAV, Chipotle 13% slightly ahead of NAV growth 10%.
Mexican Grill 14% and Lowes Companies 13%.
JPELs year was punctuated by positive developments within its PSH is a Londonand Euronext-listed closed-end fund managed by portfolio which helped to drive returns.
The first, announced in October, Pershing Square Capital Management PSCM, the investment firm run was the partial sale of Accela 8% of the portfolio to Berkshire Partners by high-profile activist investor Bill Ackman.
We first invested in PSH in for US$29m.
The second was the sale of Celerion Holdings 8% to June 2017 and have since built a position amounting to a 3% effective Court Square Capital for US$45m.
The Celerion transaction marked the stake in the company at an average discount of 18%.
fourth exit from JPELs direct investment programme since it began in 2014, with the average exit being achieved at an uplift of 143% over The opportunity to invest in PSH at a discount first arose following the carrying value one year prior, and representing a 3x multiple on the the companys catastrophic and very public investment in Valeant, a capital invested.
These statistics are, in our opinion, very impressive and Canadian-listed pharmaceuticals business whose share price declined highlight the attractive portfolio that JPEL offers to investors.
97% from peak to trough between August 2015 and April 2017.
Valeant at one point accounted for 30% of PSHs NAV, and total losses from These exits funded two mandatory redemptions during the year the position are estimated at US$4bn across Pershings funds.
This which returned US$100m 24% of NAV to investors at a zero discount episode badly tarnished Bill Ackman and his firms reputation, and the to NAV.
discount on PSH widened as investors became disillusioned.
JPEL continues to value its investments conservatively average EV While the reaction to the highly disappointing Valeant investment was EBITDA multiple of 8 times and there is the scope for further exits from understandable, it still leaves PSCM with an enviable annualised return the portfolio.
Just before the year end, JPEL revalued Mr Bults JPELs since inception of 14% versus a 9% return on the S&P 500 over the largest investment, a provider of municipal waste services upwards by same period.
Our analysis of PSHs current portfolio suggested there 59%.
We are hopeful that this revaluation may indicate an imminent is scope for considerable upside, while our research into PSCMs sale of this asset with the potential for further distributions of cash to historic investments shows what an unusual investment Valeant was shareholders.
Our conversations with management satisfied us that they Given the prospects for further exits and returns of capital, we continue understood what a departure the investment was from the style that has to view JPEL as a highly attractive proposition.
Furthermore, we believed it was untenable for Bill Ackman to preside over a vehicle trading at a wide discount to NAV given his own activist credentials.
In an attempt to narrow the discount, the company obtained a premium listing in London in May 2017, and launched a buyback programme shortly after that.
In January of this year, it was announced that PSCM were launching a tender offer for US$300m of PSH shares at a discount between 16% and 24%.
We were opposed to this course of action and felt that it should have been the company itself holding the tender offer given the accretion it would provide to NAV per share, and we made our views clear to the board and manager.
We were satisfied with the eventual outcome that saw the company itself conduct the tender offer.
Later in the year, Bill Ackman and his team added to their investments in PSH with purchases totalling over US$400m.
While our investment in PSH has been only moderately profitable to date, we continue to believe that PSHs portfolio is attractively positioned, that its current discount is unsustainable, and that a more 1 structural solution may be required to properly tackle the discount.
% of total assets less current liabilities.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 25 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW Seizing the opportunity JAPAN SPECIAL SITUATIONS BASKET 14% of your Companys assets are invested in a basket of cash-rich Japanese companies, which has been an area of focus over the past year.
We have continued to grow this basket of undervalued, asset-backed quality companies and are engaging with management to initiate discussions about improving shareholder value.
Corporate governance reform has firmly taken hold in Japan pushed as one of the Three Arrows of Prime Minister Shinzo Abes economic reform plan and the culture of change is now ingrained in the mind-set of the regulators and institutions alike.
Several key institutions have supported the reforms, including the Ministry of Economy, Trade & Industry: the Financial Services Agency: the Panasonic Pension Scheme: and foreign activist investors including AVI.
The government has given shareholders a mandate to engage with companies and, from what we have witnessed so far, this has been well received.
To name but a few changes: dividends and share buybacks at TOPIX 500 companies have increased significantly: 34% of companies now have one-third or more independent directors compared to 6% four years ago : and more shareholders are proposing resolutions at Japanese AGMs.
With the backdrop of a changing corporate attitude to shareholders, coupled with severe under-valuations, we are optimistic about the prospects for attractive returns in Japan.
13.6% 75% % of total assets less current liabilities Average percentage of market capitalisation covered by net cash and listed securities Source Getty Images 26 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information HIGHLIGHTS Extraordinary valuations Average EV EBIT multiple of 3.7 times Under-researched and inefficient investment universe 71% of Japanese companies covered by two or fewer analysts Corporate governance reform and shareholder activism to unlock long-trapped value Pressure from domestic institutions and highest levels of government Foreign activists empowered to seek change Avoid value traps and zombie companies Annualised 10-year operating profit growth of 5.3% Returns on equity of 8% Returns on equity excluding excess capital of 19% See Glossary on page 88 for further details.
Source Getty Images British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 27 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS JAPAN SPECIAL SITUATIONS OAKLEY CAPITAL INVESTMENTS 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Asset-backed Companies 8% Investment Company 19% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 13.6% 10% 4.1% 19% 3 3 Discount Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -38.2% 0.88% -23.9% 0.75% 4 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 0.1%-4.5% 20% 10.8% 17% We have been following the Japanese market for over two decades, Despite only initiating a position in Oakley Capital Investments OCI in with its weight in the portfolio until recently never exceeding much April, it contributed 0.75% to returns over the year, making it the sixthmore than 10%.
It is therefore significant that we have increased our largest contributor to your portfolios return.
OCI invests in, and makes Japanese exposure to 20% of NAV.
15% of NAV is comprised of 16 co-investments alongside, the private equity funds run by Oakley Capital companies, all of which are overcapitalised and deeply undervalued, a private equity house set up by Peter Dubens, a well-regarded UK which we denote as the Japan Special Situations Basket.
The entrepreneur, with c1bn under management.
remaining 5% Japanese allocation is to Tokyo Broadcasting System, A focus on acquiring businesses through their network of entrepreneurs, which we discuss in more detail later in this report.
as well as a willingness to invest in complex carve-outs and bolt-on Over the financial year, the Japan Special Situations Basket contributed deals that other private equity houses avoid, has allowed OCI to 0.88% to returns, the fifth-largest contributor.
In aggregate, the stocks assemble a portfolio of fast-growing businesses at a cost that is appreciated by 10%, marginally underperforming the MSCI Japan Small significantly below what peers are paying.
Current investments include Cap Index, which returned 11%.
Since inception of the Basket on Time Out, Casa atHome an Italian and Luxembourgish property portal, 6 June 2017, it has returned 20%, outperforming the benchmark by 9%.
North Sails the worlds premier sailmaker, Inspired a global network of private schools and Facile.
it an Italian price comparison website.
The companies within the Basket have common attributes: they are 5 undervalued 4x EV EBIT Oakley Capital, the fund manager, has built up an impressive track : overcapitalised 75% of market cap in 6 NFV : and of high quality 5-year profit growth of 6% with excessrecord of returns its two previous funds have generated net IRRs of 20% and 32% respectively but these returns have not been fully capital adjusted return on equity of 19%.
While the undervaluation is itself compelling, it is essential to avoid value traps.
A value trap is a captured by OCI as a series of discounted rights issues between 2009 and 2017 diluted returns for shareholders.
As a result of this, OCIs company that appears remarkably cheap on paper, but either lacks a catalyst for change, or whose value is eroded over time through lossdiscount widened to a 30-35% range which, at the time, was a fair reflection of the potential for further dilutive share issuances.
However, making businesses or poor capital allocation decisions.
Our focus on quality operating businesses helps ensure we avoid such situations the board of directors of OCI publicly committed in the 2017 Interim Report not to issue shares at a discount to NAV again.
Despite this and buys us time for our engagement with investee companies to produce results.
declaration, and despite the declaration being repeated twice more in 2017, the market paid scant attention to the boards commitment and Our engagement with the Basket companies begins with face-to-face the shares continued to languish on a sub-30% discount.
meetings, followed by letters to set out how we feel value can be unlocked for the benefit of all shareholders.
We prefer to keep our Having performed detailed work on the portfolio, and finding comfort engagements private, aiming to find solutions amicably and working in the boards public statements and the managers determination with, rather than against, management.
As we are buying high-quality to re-burnish its tarnished image which included, among other businesses and our mandate allows us to take a long-term view, we elements, increasing disclosure and discussing a share buyback are not solely focused on actions that will boost the share price in the programme, we became convinced that such a high discount to NAV short term.
This kind of activism large buybacks, MBOs, huge one-off was unwarranted and that investors were being overly punitive for past dividends did not prove successful in the mid-2000s and we have errors.
British Empire consequently took an 11% stake in OCI in April.
We are supportive of OCIs efforts to improve its governance, and have already engaged in constructive dialogue with both the board and the Cynics argue that no form of activism will succeed in Japan, and that manager in order to provide our expertise on addressing discounts and the disparity in valuation between Japanese and other developed implementing corporate governance improvements.
markets is in fact warranted given the poor record of shareholder returns and corporate governance failures.
However, this misses the significant Since our initial investment, OCI has performed well, with the discount albeit slow change in attitudes that President Abes reform agenda narrowing by 6% from 30% to 24%, driven by share price growth has triggered, and the tangible results it has produced.
A perfect storm 16% in excess of NAV growth 6%.
of regulatory, societal and activist pressure means that circumstances have changed, and Japan presents a good opportunity to invest in highquality, growing businesses at remarkably low valuations.
1 5 % of total assets less current liabilities.
2 6 Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
28 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information OAKLEY CAPITAL INVESTMENTS INSPIRED Inspired is a network of 42 private schools, educating 31,000 students on five continents.
The company was founded in 2013 by Nadim M Nsouli, and Oakley first invested in July 2013.
To date, it has been a highly successful investment, achieving gross IRRs of 30-35% in two Oakley-run funds, as Oakley has benefited from growth driven by a combination of acquisitions and organic sales growth.
4.1% % of total assets less current liabilities Reddam House Berkshire, United Kingdom Source Inspired British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 29 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS FONDUL PROPRIETATEA TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Company 10% Investment Company 10% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 5.1% 13% 4.4% 13% 3 3 Discount Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -31.8% 0.72% -30.1% 0.68% 4 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 4.1% 32% 1.6% 10% Fondul Proprietatea FP, the Franklin Templeton-managed closed-end Tokyo Broadcasting System TBS contributed 0.68% to returns over fund, contributed 0.72% to returns over the year despite a widening of the year, driven almost entirely by discount contraction.
The share price the discount from 27% to 32%.
The holding delivered a total return of rose 15%, with a narrowing of the discount from 37% to 30%, as well 13% including a dividend of US$0.86 per share, equating to a yield of as 3% NAV growth.
This compares favourably to the TOPIX, which rose 7.4% on the current share price, which was behind the NAV total return 11% in Yen.
This year marked a significant milestone for us, with our first public Fondul Proprietatea, literally meaning Property Fund in Romanian, activist campaign.
At TBS end-June AGM we submitted a shareholder was listed in Romania in 2011, having been established several years proposal to distribute, in specie, 40% of TBS stake in Tokyo Electron previously as a restitution fund to compensate those Romanian citizens equivalent to a 14% yield on the share price at the time.
While slightly whose property had been confiscated under the Romanian Communist more complicated than a simple cash dividend, the proposition struck at government.
The majority of shares held by citizens have been sold the heart of Corporate Japans problems, directed specifically at crossand are today held by institutional investors.
FPs holdings have been shareholdings.
We believe that this may have been the first proposal of reduced from 83 at IPO in 2011 to 35 today composed of eight listed its kind in Japan.
and 27 unlisted companies and key assets include OMV Petrom We put considerable effort into a campaign surrounding the proposal.
21% of NAV, an integrated oil and gas player: Hidroelectrica 36% of We launched a dedicated website, www.
com: received NAV, which generates and supplies hydroelectric energy in Romania: endorsement for our proposal from ISS: held two press conferences: the Romanian subsidiaries of ENEL, the Italian energy company 14% : hosted an information session attended by 70 domestic representatives and Bucharest Airport 8%.
from banks, insurance companies, asset managers and corporations: FP has had an eventful year, with the sale of stakes in its Electrica met with regulators: and had over 150 press articles mentioning the subsidiaries back to the parent company, special dividends from campaign.
Hidroelectrica and Bucharest Airports, a 36% increase in the annual Ultimately, and as expected, the proposal was defeated, with approval dividend, a tender offer for 14% of the outstanding shares that added from only 11% of those voting.
While unsuccessful this year, we view 4% to the NAV per share, and a continuation of the buyback policy in the proposal as the start of the process rather than the end.
TBS remains one of the most overcapitalised companies in Japan.
Despite the large number of events over the past year, FPs portfolio Its strategic shareholdings continue to impair corporate value, as remains replete with opportunity.
Hidroelectrica is a likely candidate for reflected in the 30% discount to peers: reduce the accountability an IPO at some point, although delays to the timetable have repeatedly and discipline of management: and conflict with the principles of the pushed back the expected date: there is potential for further sales of the Corporate Governance Code.
We believe TBS current stance will come ENEL subsidiaries as the parent company attempts to fully consolidate under increasing pressure and, as shareholders focus on long-term its subsidiaries the subsidiaries are cash-rich, and so it is quite possible value creation, we will continue to work with the company on ways to they will pay out special dividends as part of a sales process : and the improve corporate value.
investment in OMV Petrom continues to trade at a very cheap valuation with considerable upside from development of their huge Black Sea In the meantime our allocation to TBS gives us exposure to a portfolio joint-venture with ExxonMobil.
of high-quality listed companies 54% of TBS NAV, prime Tokyo real estate 25% and a top-five broadcasting business 14%, all the while 5 receiving a 6% FCF yield.
5 Refer to Glossary on page 88 for further details.
30 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information TOP 20 LOOK-THROUGH HOLDINGS British Empire invests in holding companies and closed-end funds that in turn invest in listed and unlisted companies.
We show below the top 20 holdings on a look-through basis, i. e. the underlying companies to which we have exposure.
For example, British Empire owns a stake in Swire Pacific, a Hong Kong-listed family-controlled holding company, that accounts for 4.4% of British Empires portfolio 4.6% of its NAV.
Swire Pacifics largest holding is Swire Properties, a Hong Kong property developer, which accounts for c79% of its own NAV.
This translates to an effective exposure of British Empire Trust to Swire Properties of 3.6% of British Empires NAV.
The table below is an indication of the degree of diversification of the portfolio.
Underlying look-through Look-through Look-through holding Parent company weight holding sector Swire Properties Swire Pacific Ltd B 3.6% Real Estate Operating Companies Minor International Symphony 2.7% Hotels, Resorts and Cruise Lines Bureau Veritas Wendel SA 2.6% Research and Consulting Services Fiat Chrysler Autos EXOR 2.0% Automobile Manufacturers Hidroelectrica SA Fondul Proprietatea 2.0% Electric Utilities Aker BP Aker 1.9% Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Partner RE EXOR 1.9% Reinsurance Automatic Data Processing Pershing Square Holdings 1.7% Data Processing and Outsourced Services Fujitec Operating Business Fujitec 1.7% Industrial Machinery Dairy Farm Jardine Strategic 1.6% Food Retail Hammerhead Riverstone Energy 1.6% Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Ferrari EXOR 1.5% Automobile Manufacturers Hongkong Land Jardine Strategic 1.3% Real Estate Operating Companies Restaurant Brands International Pershing Square Holdings 1.3% Restaurants TFG Asset Management Tetragon Financial 1.2% Asset Management and Custody Banks Jardine Cycle & Carriage Jardine Strategic 1.2% Distributors OMV Petrom Fondul Proprietatea 1.2% Integrated Oil and Gas CNH Industrial EXOR 1.1% Agricultural and Farm Machinery Raizen Combustiveis Cosan Ltd 1.0% Fuel Distribution Cosan Logistica Cosan Ltd 1.0% Railroads WENDEL SA: HOW THE LOOK-THROUGH ANALYSIS WORKS Wendel SA is a French holding company in which British Empires portfolio has an investment.
Although Wendel is just one company, it provides your portfolio with exposure to many different geographies and sectors by virtue of the fact that Wendel itself holds a diversified portfolio of companies.
Company name % of Wendel's portfolio Geography Sector Bureau Veritas 44% Europe Research and Consulting Services Stahl 16% Europe Specialty Chemicals Constantia Flexibles 12% Europe Paper Packaging I. H. S. 9% Africa Telecom Towers AlliedUniversal 7% United States Security and Alarm Services Saint Gobain 6% Europe Building Products Cromology Materis Paints 3% Europe Specialty Chemicals Tsebo 2% South Africa Diversified Support Services Other companies 1% Africa Japan Retail REITs Oil and Gas Equipment and Services Total portfolio 100% British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 31 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW CONTRIBUTORS NB PRIVATE EQUITY PARTNERS EXOR 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Company 15% Investment Holding Company 8% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 3.1% 15% 5.6% 9% 3 3 Discount Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -16.2% 0.58% -33.1% 0.53% 4 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 2.9% 107% 0.5% 32% Compared to last year, when NB Private Equity Partners NBPE EXOR, the holding company of the Agnelli family, started and ended the introduced a raft of corporate governance changes including a full year as the second largest position in the portfolio, predicated on our enfranchisement of shareholders and a switch to a London listing from conviction in Fiat Chrysler Automobiles FCA, and the capital allocation Amsterdam the fund has had a relatively quiet 2018. prowess of EXOR CEO, John Elkann who is himself a member of the Agnelli family.
For the second year, EXOR has featured as a top ten Nonetheless, performance has been solid, with a total return of 15%, contributor, being the sixth largest last year and the tenth this year.
which added 0.58% to your portfolios returns for the year.
The discount Over our almost-two-year holding period, our position in EXOR has narrowed from 20% to 16%, and the NAV total return was 12%.
appreciated by 29% in EUR, vs 10% for our benchmark.
Following the corporate governance improvements achieved last year, EXOR contributed 0.53% to returns this year.
Although it suffered we continued to engage with the board of NBPE in order to push for from discount widening 29% to 33%, NAV growth of 14% more further changes.
The seeds of this effort bore fruit in early September than compensated, driven by strong performance from Ferrari and this year, when the fund announced that it would introduce another PartnerRe.
While it was encouraging to benefit from value creation slate of improvements.
outside of FCA, FCAs flat performance over the year was deeply disappointing.
As EXORs largest position, accounting for 33% of NAV, Among these changes were: 1 a refinement of the dividend policy, it proved a significant drag on returns.
which fixed the dividend at 3% of NAV and resulted in an immediate 12% increase in the dividend level: 2 an agreement that one of the FCA, under the leadership of Sergio Marchionne, has been transformed managers two board representatives would step down, and that two from a struggling, debt-ridden mass-market auto manufacturer, to new independent directors will join the board: 3 the chairman, who has one that has net cash as at 30 June 2018, commands a portfolio of been in his role since the companys IPO in 2007, will also resign within high-quality brands, and is hugely cash generative.
It was with great the next year: and 4 half of NBPEs legacy funds, which have dragged sadness that we learnt of Marchionnes death in late July.
While he had on growth in recent years, will be sold in the secondary market.
committed to retirement in early 2019, his sudden passing came as a shock, and we believe he will be remembered as one of the all-time While these new measures may not extend quite as far as we would like great CEOs, given his visionary leadership and the 17% annualised them to for instance, we would have liked to see a fully independent total shareholder return he generated over his 14-year tenure at FCA.
A board, a commitment to buybacks, and a full sale of the legacy portfolio succession plan was in place and Mike Manley, previously head of Jeep with the proceeds used to fund an accretive tender offer we are and Ram, took the mantle as FCAs CEO.
cognisant that these changes are nonetheless a material improvement.
Before Marchionne died, he presented a four-year plan in a similar NBPE continues to offer scope for both NAV growth and discount contraction, and we continue to believe that its differentiated investment manner to one he presented in 2014.
He outlined the strategy for each of FCAs brands and guided that 2020 operating profits would be 20% proposition and low fee structure remain under-appreciated by the market.
higher than 2018, and that 2022 operating profits would be 77% higher.
Furthermore, FCA guided that over the coming four years it will produce free cash flow equivalent to 68% of the current market cap and pay 26% of the current market cap in dividends.
For investors concerned about extended US auto sales, FCA outlined that by 2020 they would still be free cash-flow breakeven should US auto sales fall to 10m as they did in 2009, a 39% drop.
It amazes us that, despite FCA most likely achieving their 2018 targets outlined in 2014, the market still gives no credibility to FCAs guidance for later years.
The company trades on a 2018 EV EBIT of 4x, 2020 EV EBIT of 2x and a remarkable 2022 EV EBIT of 1x.
With buybacks, a high dividend yield, the potential formation of a US financing company contribution not included in guidance, and the upcoming spin-out or sale of auto parts business Magneti Marelli, FCA offers the prospect for an extraordinary return.
A question that naturally follows when we have high conviction in an underlying company is why not own it directly?
Through investing in 1 % of total assets less current liabilities.
EXOR, we invest in FCA at a 33% discount which at times has been 2 Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
as little as 10% : we invest in a high-quality, cyclically robust private 3 Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal reinsurance business accessible only through EXOR PartnerRe, 32% quoted total return over the financial year.
of NAV : and we have our interests perfectly aligned with John Elkann and his family.
32 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information DETRACTORS GP INVESTMENTS JARDINE STRATEGIC HOLDINGS 2 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Company -22% Investment Holding Company -12% 1 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 0.9% -36% 5.1% -10% 3 3 Discount Contribution GBP Discount Contribution GBP -56.4% -0.62% -35.2% -0.62% 4 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 14.6% -36% 0.2% 4% GP Investments GP the Brazilian-listed private equity investment British Empire has invested in the Keswick family-controlled Jardine company suffered from discount widening and foreign exchange group for well over a decade, attracted to high-growth Asian exposure weakness to the extent that it was the third-largest detractor from NAV and the long-term track record of wealth preservation and creation.
reducing returns by 0.62%, despite being one of our smaller positions.
Whilst a long-term shareholder, our deep and detailed understanding of GPs share price declined 22% in its traded currency of Brazilian Real, the underlying companies allows us to move between different levels of with the pain exacerbated for British Empire by the Reals 19% slide the Jardine structure as and when the discounts in the different group versus Sterling.
vehicles become particularly compelling or anomalous.
As noted in Given that GPs NAV fell by only 4% in Real terms, the companys last years annual report, in 2016 we sold your Companys position in discount expanded even wider, increasing to 56% from 46% at the Jardine Matheson JMH and built a position in JSH, which performed start of the year.
We attribute the widening discount to a combination well in 2017.
This year, however, Jardine Strategic Holdings JSH, of Brazils macro and political concerns negatively impacting sentiment was one of British Empires weakest performers, detracting 0.62% from towards stocks listed in the country, and the illiquidity of GPs shares.
With the NAV being more or less flat over the year, the We note that 43% of GPs NAV is in international assets, meaning that main culprit here was discount widening the discount moved from the fund is in fact protected somewhat from difficulties in Brazil.
24% to 35% as the share price declined 16%.
GP has continued to use cash to pay down its expensive debt.
Net Dairy Farm 30% of NAV performed well, up 20% over the year, as new debt was 14% of NAV at the end of September 2017 and 3% of NAV at CEO, Ian McLeod, appointed in 2017, improved performance.
Food the end of June 2018, highlighting the funds success in deleveraging.
retail in China and Hong Kong and Health and Beauty across Southeast Centauro Holdings 12% of NAV filed for IPO in October 2017 although, Asia, continued to be the strong performers, whilst management took given political uncertainty in Brazil, it is likely that it will wait until after the active steps to address Southeast Asian food performance.
For example, Brazilian elections to complete this process.
Centauro is a successful in the Philippines, Dairy Farm partnered with Robinsons Retail Holdings omni-channel sports retailer which we estimate is held at 9x EV EBITDA RRHI, exchanging their interest in wholly owned Rustans Supercentre in GPs NAV.
Listed peers trade at materially richer multiples, and our chain for an 18% stake in RRHI, moving an unlisted investment into a base case for Centauros valuation upon listing suggests considerable larger listed vehicle, and improving Dairy Farms competitive positioning.
Furthermore, a successful IPO of Centauro would result in an However, this was offset by Jardine Cycle & Carriage 21% of NAV even larger proportion of GPs market cap being covered by listed and Hongkong Land 24% of NAV which declined 16% and 5%, securities which would serve to shine further light on what is already a respectively.
At Cycle & Carriage which itself is a holding company laughably cheap valuation.
Although the investment has been a difficult investor scepticism over holding company-level leverage and the one for your portfolio 0.6x return on invested capital to date we possibility of a future capital raise, following the acquisition of a stake in continue to believe that there is significant value in the portfolio which, Vinamilk 9% of NAV, weighed on the price.
Astra International, Cycle & combined with a tightening of the discount to more reasonable levels, Carriages largest holding at 84% of NAV, declined 5% on the back of holds out the prospect of strong returns from here.
continued weakness at their Autos division, as well as suffering from a souring of sentiment towards Indonesia.
Turning to Hongkong Land HKL, demand for prime office space in Hong Kongs Central district c64% of HKLs NAV from Mainland Chinese occupiers and investors has pushed rents higher and acquisition yields lower, meaning valuations and thus NAVs edge ever higher.
However, the prospect of interest rate hikes has unnerved investors.
While we are cognisant of the impact on property valuations of higher interest rates, we feel our NAV calculations are conservative, and believe the value of HKLs property portfolio is largely unappreciated by the wider market, with the discount 12% wider than its historical average 40% vs 28%.
While the NAV underperformance over the year has been disappointing, we remain sanguine.
Whilst the NAV performance was unexciting, we see little rationality in such excessive discount widening, to levels well beyond JSHs three-year historic average of 32%.
As such, we 1 % of total assets less current liabilities.
increased the position in JSH by 38% over the year, at an average 2 Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
It would appear that the family agrees, with JMH 3 Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal also adding to its stake in Jardine Strategic, now owning over 84%.
quoted total return over the financial year.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 33 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW DETRACTORS COSAN LTD 2 Description Total return on position FY18 local Investment Holding Company -23.0% 1 Weight Total return on position FY18 GBP 3.0% -21.0% 3 Discount Contribution GBP -33.0% -1.00% 4 % of investee company ROI since date of initial purchase 2.4% -22% Source Rumo collection Cosan Ltd CZZ was the largest detractor over the year, reducing COSAN LTD returns by 1.00%.
While CZZs share price fell only 17% over the RUMO year, we added to our position at higher prices during the year at discounts that we deemed to be highly attractive which meant we experienced a deeper 26% fall.
For the financial year, Brazilian Real Rumo SA is a Brazilian rail transportation and weakness accounted for 19% of the 26% share price decline in logistics business whose key area of activity other words, the macro climate was the driver of weak performance, rather than the fundamental investment case.
extends over Mato Grosso, So Paulo and the southern states of Brazil, home to four Our original thesis remains intact: we are gaining exposure to highquality businesses, at an extraordinarily wide discount, with a real of the countrys most active ports, through likelihood of benefiting from significant discount narrowing.
Over which most grain production is exported.
the year, management continued to execute their business plans The company operates 12,000km of lines, 1,000 locomotives excellently: consolidating independent fuel stations, acquiring sugar and 25,000 wagons, as well as distribution centres and producers and building out their rail capacity.
Cosan Logstica will benefit from long-term strength and family ownership allow it to take a long-term view, which Brazilian economic development, and the increased use means that it is able to stay rational in an irrational market and be of rail transportation.
Its allocation of capital towards buybacks is an excellent example of this.
Over the course of the year, CZZ bought back 8% of its outstanding shares, and 4% of the outstanding shares at Cosan SA the holding company beneath CZZ which accounts for 75% of CZZs NAV.
At a 3.0% look-through discount of 54%, such buybacks are hugely accretive, % of total assets less current liabilities and we estimate for each 5% buyback at CZZ, 3% is added to its NAV.
The recognition of the accretion to NAV from buybacks is testament to CZZs capital allocation acumen, and we are happy to align your capital with theirs.
When we account for Cosan SAs 32% discount, CZZ trades on a 54% look-through discount: a simplification of the group structure and an ultimate discount of 22% based on relevant peers would yield a return, purely from discount contraction, of 70%.
Coupled with quality management, the micro characteristics of Cosans investment case make the company one of the most compelling investments in the portfolio, but the case is tempered by macro uncertainty.
So far, our recognition of the macro risks, borne out in our modest position 3%, has proved wise and, were it not for these risks, the position would be a more substantial size.
The long-term nature of our investments means we can tolerate volatility in pursuit of large upside.
While we have experienced a loss of 23% on our average purchase price in USD, we remain convinced by the merits of our investment and look forward to continued buybacks, NAV growth and the ultimate prize the simplification of the group structure.
34 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018
