STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY COMPANY PURPOSE The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
STRATEGY INVESTMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Our strategy is to seek out-of-favour companies As an investment trust, the Companys most whose assets are misunderstood by the important relationship is with the Investment The Company uses KPIs as an effective market or under-researched, and which Manager.
measurement of the development, performance trade significantly below their intrinsic value or position of the Companys business, in order The Companys assets are managed by Asset and where pressure can be brought to bear to to set and measure performance reliably.
AVI aims to deliver enact change to release value for shareholders.
are Net Asset Value Total Return, Discount to superior returns and specialises in investment Net Asset Value and Value for Money.
in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector weightings, but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified portfolio.
No more than 10% of the Companys investments may be in unlisted securities.
AVIs investment philosophy is described in more detail on page 18 of the Annual Report and the Companys Investment Policy is set out on page 38.
TOTAL RETURNS TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Company 1 Year Benchmark 1 Year MSCI All Country World ex-US Index 10.0% 5.2% 10 Years Annualised 10 Years Annualised 10.0% 9.0% Benchmark adopted on 1 October 2013.
08 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information KEY FIGURES DISCOUNT NUMBER OF INVESTMENTS 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 39 8.5% 9.9% of which 16 are held in Japanese Special Situations see page 16 ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE ADDED TO NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE FROM BUYBACKS TOP TEN INVESTMENTS REPRESENT 2018 2017 50.6% 0.4% 0.8% of total assets less current liabilities ONGOING CHARGES RATIO 2018 2017 0.87% 0.87% SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS Minor International, Symphony Internationals largest investment, is one of the portfolios largest underlying holdings.
Nature of business Investment Company 4.1% % of total assets less current liabilities Minor Hotels Anantara Kalutara Resort in Sri Lanka British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 09 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY Key Performance Indicators Principal Risks When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment risk, and In selecting these measures, the Directors considered the key the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is objectives and expectations of typical investors in an investment trust much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board such as the Company.
looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which is set out below.
It has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Net asset value total return facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return as model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The objective of using being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels long term.
Total return reflects both the net asset value growth of the of risk and how they have changed over time.
The purpose of this Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
The Investment focus is to ensure that the returns earned are commensurate with the Managers investment style is such that performance is likely to risks assumed.
The investment approach followed by the Investment deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity index.
The Manager aims, over the long term, to achieve returns in excess of Board considers the most important comparator to be the MSCI All those produced by markets.
Country World ex-US Index, which was adopted as the Companys The Board has assessed the risks which the Company faces under benchmark from 1 October 2013. a number of headings.
A summary of the key risks and mitigating A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is actions are set out in the table below.
Shareholders should be aware contained in the Investment Review, commencing on page 18 that no assessment of this nature can be guaranteed to predict all of the Annual Report.
possible risks: the objective is to assess the risks and determine mitigating actions.
The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared with net asset value The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium.
Therefore, the Board seeks shareholder approval each year to buy back and issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price discount or premium.
During the year under review, the discount has moved generally in a range from 7% to 12%, with a high of 11.7% and a low of 6.8%, based on closing prices and, as at 30 September 2018, stood at 8.5%.
During the year under review, no new shares were issued and 4.3m shares were bought back and placed into treasury, adding an estimated 0.4% to net asset value per share to the benefit of continuing shareholders.
The shares were bought back at a weighted average discount of 10.1%.
Value for money The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a sensible balance between good service and costs.
For the year ended 30 September 2018, the ongoing charges ratio was 0.87%, which was unchanged from the previous year.
10 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information Risk Area Mitigating Actions The market or the Companys portfolio could suffer a Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing risk is to hold prolonged down turn in performance.
The Company typically now holds 25-35 core positions.
This range could be considered a relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on a lookthrough basis than if it were invested in companies with a single line of business.
For the same reason, the top ten portfolio positions, representing 50.6% of total assets at the year end, are in practice highly diversified on a look-through basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
The Investment Manager has a clear investment strategy, as set out on page 18.
There will be periods when this strategy underperforms in comparison to its benchmark and its peer group.
The Board monitors performance at each Board meeting, and reviews the investment process thoroughly at least annually.
The Company, through the Investment Managers compliance function and the Administrators independent checks, has a robust system for ensuring compliance with the investment mandate.
The use of gearing makes investment returns more volatile There is a degree of risk associated with gearing.
While gearing should enhance and exacerbates the effect of any fall in portfolio value.
investment performance over the long term, it is likely to exacerbate any decline in asset value in the short term.
There are covenants attached to both the Loan Notes and the Debenture, which could be breached in extreme market conditions and could require early repayment, which could be expensive.
Total return results, when issued on the basis of debt being marked to estimated market value, are likely to be more volatile.
The value of the Euro tranche of the Loan Notes will fluctuate with currency movements, although it should be noted that the portfolio contains a significant amount of Euro denominated assets.
It is possible that the investment returns will not match the borrowing cost over time, and therefore the gearing will be dilutive.
The Board manages this risk by setting its fixed gearing at a prudent level.
The covenants are set at levels with substantial headroom.
The portfolio has investments in a number of countries Foreign exchange risk is an integral part of a portfolio which is invested across a and there is a risk that the value of local currencies may range of currencies.
This risk is managed by the Investment Manager mainly by way decline in value relative to Sterling.
of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager may, with Board approval, hedge currency risk.
The Company did not engage in any currency hedging during the year under review.
However, borrowing in foreign currencies provides a natural hedge against currency risk in situations where the Company holds investments denominated in the borrowed currency.
As at 30 September 2018, the Company had 50m of borrowing, and investments denominated in Euros whose value exceeded that of this borrowing.
While the investment portfolio is made up predominantly The Investment Manager takes account of liquidity when making investments of liquid investments, there is a possibility that individual and monitors the liquidity of holdings as part of its continuing management investments may prove difficult to sell at short notice.
The liquidity of holdings is monitored and reported at regular Board meetings.
Management of the Companys investment portfolio The Board regularly reviews with key suppliers, and particularly the Investment and other support functions rely on a small number Manager, their staff retention policies and contingency plans.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 11 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY Risk Area Mitigating Actions The shares of investment trusts frequently trade at a The Board seeks to manage the risk of any widening of the discount by regularly discount to their published net asset value.
The value of reviewing the level of discount at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the if necessary and appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset buybacks of shares.
values and the general perceptions of investors.
The The Investment Manager, supported by the Company, has a comprehensive share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable marketing, investor relations and public relations programme which seeks to inform fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee that the both existing and potential investors of the attractions of the Company and the share price will appreciate in value.
The Company may become unattractive to investors, leading to pressure on the share price and discount.
This may be due to any of a variety of factors, including investment performance or regulatory change.
The portfolio has investments in a number of jurisdictions The Investment Manager and Administrator have comprehensive systems in around the world and there is a risk of portfolio trades place for executing and settling transactions and for ensuring that the assets failing and or of loss of assets.
The Company uses a leading global custodian bank to safeguard its assets and receives regular, comprehensive reports from the Custodian.
In addition, the Depositary provides further independent oversight of the protection of the Companys assets.
The portfolio has investments in a number of countries The Investment Manager has a process, overseen by the Audit Committee, to where systems for reclaiming tax are prolonged.
ensure that tax is reclaimed in an efficient and timely manner, working with the Custodian and, where appropriate, other agencies.
The Company outsources all of its key functions to third The Company reviews the relevant systems and controls, at the Investment parties, in particular the Investment Manager, and any Manager and at other third-party suppliers, including the Custodian, Depositary and control failures or gaps in the systems and services Administrator.
The Board assesses thoroughly the risks inherent in any change of provided by third parties could result in a financial loss or supplier, including the internal controls of any new supplier.
The principal financial risks are examined in more detail in note 14 to the financial statements on page 65.
12 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information Environmental, Social and Governance Issues Approval of Strategic Report The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and is signed Both the Board and AVI recognise that social, human rights, community, governance and environmental issues can have an on its behalf by: effect on some of its investee companies.
The Board supports AVI in its belief that good corporate governance will help to deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value.
AVI is an Susan Noble investment management firm that invests on behalf of its clients and its Chairman primary duty is to produce returns for its clients.
AVI seeks to exercise 9 November 2018 the rights and responsibilities attached to owning equity securities in line with its investment strategy.
A key component of AVIs investment strategy is to understand and engage with the management of public companies.
AVIs Stewardship Policy recognises that shareholder value can be enhanced and sustained through the good stewardship of executives and boards.
It therefore follows that in pursuing shareholder value AVI will implement its investment strategy through proxy voting and active engagement with management and boards.
The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions-producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The Company has no employees.
The Directors are satisfied that, to the best of their knowledge, the Companys principal suppliers, which are listed on the inside back cover of this report, comply with the provisions of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Directors do not have service contracts.
There are five Directors, three male and two female.
Further information on the Boards policy on recruitment of new Directors is contained on page 42.
Future Strategy The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed in their focus on investment in high-quality undervalued assets and that, over time, this style of investment has been well rewarded.
The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee companies earnings, corporate activity, dividends and asset values: and by stock market movements globally.
Stock markets are themselves affected by a number of factors, including: economic conditions: central bank and other policymakers decisions: political and regulatory issues: and currency movements.
The Companys performance relative to its peer group and benchmark will depend on the Investment Managers ability to allocate the Companys assets effectively, and manage its liquidity or gearing appropriately.
More specifically, the Companys performance will be affected by the movements in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison to their own net asset values.
The overall strategy remains unchanged.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 13
