STRATEGIC REPORT TEN LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS The top ten equity investments make up 50.6% of total assets less current liabilities, with underlying businesses spread 1 2 across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
PERSHING SQUARE HOLDINGS EXOR Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 66.6m Investment Holding 57.3m Company % of total assets Discount Discount less current liabilities -24.4% % of total assets less -33.1% 6.5% current liabilities 5.6% A Euronextand London-listed closed-end fund EXOR is an Italian-listed holding company run by investing in a highly-concentrated portfolio of listed US the Agnelli family, which traces its roots back to the View our investment platforms: equities.
The managers reputation has been damaged formation of FIAT in 1899.
It has exposure to four www.
co. uk by the steep losses experienced in its position in main assets, three of which are listed: Fiat Chrysler how-to-invest platforms Valeant Pharmaceuticals, but that enabled us to make Automobile, Ferrari and CNH Industrial, and one the investment at a wide discount to NAV.
currently trade on a 24% discount to NAV, which we believe is too wide for a portfolio of large-cap US equities run by an activist manager with a track record of outperformance even including the Valeant losses.
Source Courtesy of United Technologies Source CNH Industrial All discounts are estimated by AVI as at 30 September 2018, based on AVIs estimate of each company's net asset value.
6 7 RIVERSTONE ENERGY WENDEL Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 51.7m Investment Holding 49.6m Company % of total assets less Discount Discount current liabilities -20.7% % of total assets less -26.5% 5.0% current liabilities 4.8% A London-listed closed-end fund investing in oil & gas Wendel is a French-listed holding company with companies, mainly in the US and Canada with a focus exposure to a diverse range of sectors.
Major on unconventional shale assets.
Backed by a business lines include certification and inspection management team with a strong track record in the services, consumer packaging and mobile telephone sector, Riverstone Energy was able to capitalise on the infrastructure through their investments in Bureau distress in the sector following the 2014 oil price crash Veritas, Constantia Flexibles, IHS and Stahl.
to assemble an attractive portfolio concentrated in the lowest-cost basins in North America.
The company trades on a 21% discount to NAV.
Source Centennial Resource Development Source Regency Agency 14 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information 3 4 5 FONDUL PROPRIETATEA PARGESA JARDINE STRATEGIC Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 52.8m Investment Holding 52.7m Investment Holding 52.5m Company Company % of total assets less Discount Discount Discount current liabilities -31.8% % of total assets less -37.8% % of total assets less -35.2% 5.1% current liabilities current liabilities 5.1% 5.1% A Bucharestand London-listed closed-end fund Through Pargesa's stake in GBL it holds interests An Asian holding company which holds significant originally set up to provide restitution to Romanian in a number of listed companies.
The portfolio is interests in Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Jardine citizens whose property was seized by the Romanian concentrated on a limited number of major holdings Cycle & Carriage, Dairy Farm and Mandarin Oriental by Communist government.
Fondul provides exposure including well-known companies such as Adidas, way of a cross shareholding between Jardine Matheson to some of Romanias most attractive utility and Pernod-Ricard and LafargeHolcim with the aim of and Jardine Strategic.
The group structure, which infrastructure assets including Hidroelectrica, ENELs creating long-term value through active ownership.
is controlled by the Keswick family, provides broad Romanian distribution subsidiaries, Bucharest Airport exposure to Asian businesses at an attractive discount and OMV Petrom.
The fund pays a 7% dividend yield to the value of their listed underlying holdings, while and offers the potential for several corporate events to providing the base for long-term value creation through unlock value and help narrow the 32% discount.
the stable stewardship of their investee companies.
Source S. P. E. E. H. Hidroelectrica S. A.
Copyright Imerys Source Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group Photography George Apostolidis 8 9 10 TETRAGON FINANCIAL TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM THIRD POINT OFFSHORE Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 48.8m Asset-backed 45.1m Investment Company 44.3m Company % of total assets less Discount Discount % of total assets less Discount current liabilities -38.7% % of total assets less -30.1% current liabilities -23.2% 4.7% current liabilities 4.3% 4.4% A Euronextand London-listed closed-end fund investing Tokyo Broadcasting System TBS is one of the A London-listed closed-end fund run by well-known in a multi-asset portfolio with exposure to CLO equity, top five major broadcasters in Japan.
However, its activist Daniel Loeb.
The fund invests in credit and hedge funds and real estate.
Tetragon wholly owns, broadcasting business is masked by its excessively equity and takes long and short positions in both, or has substantial stakes in, the asset managers that large securities portfolio, amounting to 80% of market although it has a bias towards long positions.
We first manage its portfolio, and the ultimate IPO of this asset cap, and totalling 91% when including net cash.
TBS invested in Third Point Offshore in July 2017, and built management business is likely to release some of the trades on a 30% discount.
a position at an average discount of 17%, which we value found in the companys 39% discount to NAV.
view as unsustainably wide given Loebs reputation as an activist investor.
Source Tetragon Financial Group Ltd Source Getty Images Source Getty Images British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 15
