INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW OVERVIEW OF AVIS INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY BRITISH EMPIRE IDENTIFY GOOD QUALITY UNDERLYING INVEST IN COMPANIES TRADING IS MANAGED BY ASSETS WITH APPRECIATION POTENTIAL AT DISCOUNTS TO NET ASSET VALUE.
ASSET VALUE AT COMPELLING VALUATIONS.
INVESTORS LIMITED There are many companies trading at discounts to Our focus is to find listed companies that own The aim of AVI is assets such as listed securities, property, cash and net asset value.
Our aim is to identify companies to deliver superior that own attractive businesses where there is not other businesses.
We then estimate the value of investment returns.
After deducting any liabilities only a wide discount, but also where we consider specialises in investing there to be a reasonable likelihood of those such as debt or pension liabilities, we arrive at an in securities that for estimate of net asset value for that company.
We businesses appreciating in value.
a number of reasons will consider investing in companies where the may be selling on discount between the current share price and our anomalous valuations.
estimate of the value of that business is wide.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: 1 2 Our focus on buying LOOK FOR EVENTS TO NARROW FOCUS ON BALANCE high-quality businesses DISCOUNTS.
trading at wide discounts to their net asset value has served Once we find a good quality business on an attractive Debt works very well when markets are us well over the long valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that appreciating.
However, debt can also destroy term.
There are periods the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade at a a lot of value when markets are falling and the of time, however, when our style is out discount for a reason and if that reason persists, then the business environment for a particular company of favour and the types discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various types deteriorates.
We consider very carefully the of companies in which of company in which we invest.
For example, in the case balance sheet strength of the companies in which we invest are ignored of a closed-end fund, where we are a large shareholder we invest.
Factors which we look at include the by the broader market.
This requires us to be we can influence a board to pursue a strategy for actual quantum of debt relative to the assets of the patient and to remain discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled companies, the maturity profile of the debt and the true to our style, so that company, we would rely on the family to be the activist.
cashflows that the businesses generate.
when other investors Our analysis would involve trying to understand the begin to appreciate interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, the value in those companies, we are and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
In the short term, this 3 4 means that there could be some volatility in our returns.
However, we are confident that we own high-quality FOCUS ON BOTTOM-UP ESG INTEGRATION FOR A BROADER businesses, which STOCK PICKING.
are trading on cheap valuations.
We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a Integral to our investment process is the belief Members of the investment team at pool of money across various asset classes.
We that good corporate governance will help to deliver AVI invest their own are equity investors focusing on a particular style sustainable long-term returns for shareholders.
money in funds which of value investing.
We do not hug benchmarks and In addition to financial performance, the boards they manage.
As at we will not own a company just because it is in a oversight of operational performance, environmental 30 September 2018 AVIs investment benchmark.
We seek to invest in companies that and social risks and the robustness of the team owned 236,122 meet the criteria described above.
management structures will affect the valuation shares in British Empire we assign to a stock.
AVI expects the boards and Trust plc.
executives of the companies in which we invest to review the quality of the internal controls, strategy and operating performance in order to produce strong returns.
5 6 18 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018
