Strategic Report MARKET TRENDS AND HOW WE ARE RESPONDING We recognise the short term backdrop while our strategy is focused on long term trends UK market backdrop Long term trends driving our strategy Continued political uncertainty Londons changing role in global markets The June 2017 general election delivered a hung Parliament.
The ease of doing business and access to a diverse mix of talent and As a result, analready volatile political backdrop was further culture have established London as a leading global city.
Its proven destabilised, heightening uncertainty particularly with respect ability to adapt and prosper means it is well-placed to withstand to Brexit.
todays Brexit-related headwinds, and continue to attract inward business investment.
Resilience of London The most recent estimates for Brexit-related job losses in the Population change and urbanisation financial sector arelower than initially feared.
Technology and Londons population continues to change: for example more than media sectors have been particularly resilient, with Google and 20% of Londoners are expected to be over 60 by 2040, changing the Facebook committing to London, while overseas investment type of space required.
There is more demand for higher density has remained strong.
development with excellent connections as well as a focus on promoting wellbeing with green and open spaces and a mix of uses.
Consumer and business confidence Consumer confidence remains fragile with real wages squeezed Accelerating technology-driven change by inflation, although there are tentative signs that the outlook is Technology is disrupting conventional ways of doing business, improving.
GDP forecasts reduced over the year, and are below changing how people and organisations interact with physical leading global economies reflecting Brexit-related uncertainty.
space, but providing opportunities for those quick to leverage new capabilities.
In certain sectors such as retail change is fundamental Retailer and restaurant operator challenges and businesses are having to respond to remain successful.
This year has seen a number of operators apply for company voluntary arrangement CVAs as a result of challenges in their Evolving worker and consumer expectations markets.
These include the impact of online and cost pressure People expect more from the places where they spend time.
as a result of higher input prices as well as lower consumer They want to move seamlessly between work and leisure, they confidence.
Casual dining operations have been similarly affected.
wantmore flexibility and value added services and they want space to be well connected.
Interest rate expectations The Bank of England increased base rates for the first time Wellbeing and sustainability in 10years in November 2017, from all-time record low levels, There is a broad consensus that growth and development should and hasindicated that the pace of interest rate increases could be sustainable, with the benefits shared more equally across accelerate ifhigh rates of inflation persist.
society, promoting a more inclusive culture with the surrounding communities.
There is a growing recognition of the role that places can play in promoting mental and physical wellbeing.
12 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have four strategic priorities Customer Orientation Responding to changing lifestyles Customer insight based on a range of information helps us todeliver Places People Prefer Expand the use of technology to reflect itsrolein the way people work and shop Wellbeing Create places that promote health, productivity and enjoyment, enabling our customers to be more successful Right Places Creating great environments Invest in well-connected places, where there is potential for growth and regeneration Broaden the mix of uses to appeal to a wider range of occupiers and local communities Enhance and enliven our spaces through placemaking Understand and respond to the changing needs of the people who use our spaces Community Capital Efficiency Make a positive contribution locally and behave so our places are considered part of their Disciplined use of capital local community Actively recycle capital to maximise Promote social inclusion, interaction and risk-adjusted returns accessibility, embedding our places in their Maintain an appropriate balance of risk in both neighbourhoods and local community networks development exposure and financial leverage Futureproofing Protect and enhance asset value through environmental stewardship, including energy generation and efficiency, materials innovation and flood risk reduction Expert People The knowledge and skills to deliver Enhance key skill sets, including in more operational areas Share expertise through collaborative working Promote a diverse and inclusive culture Skills and opportunity Help local people and businesses to grow Further develop training and development schemes forpeople at all levels of our organisation British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
