Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our Board develops strategy and leads British Land to achieve long term success Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors N John Gildersleeve Chris Grigg Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2008 and as Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Skills and experience: Chris has more than 30 years experience Skills and experience: John is deputy chairman of TalkTalk Telecom inthe real estate and financial industries in a range of leadership Group PLC.
John also serves as chairman of Noble Foods Ltd.
Until November 2008, Chris was chief executive of Barclays was formerly deputy chairman and senior independent director of Commercial Bank, having joined Barclays in 2005.
Prior to that, Spire Healthcare Group plc, chairman of EMI Group and Gallaher Chris spent over 20 years at Goldman Sachs, latterly as a partner.
Group and chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group now Dixons Chris is a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc, a board Carphone plc.
He was also a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB member of both the British Property Federation and the European Bank PLC, Vodafone Group andPick n Pay Stores South Africa Public Real Estate Association and member of the 30% Club.
andan executive director ofTesco plc.
Charles Maudsley Tim Roberts Head of Retail, Leisure & Residential Head of Offices Appointed to the Board in February 2010.
Appointed to the Board in July 2006.
Skills and experience: Charles joined British Land in 2010 from Skills and experience: Before joining British Land in 1997 Tim was LaSalle Investment Management where he was Co-Head of Europe, a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
He was Managing Director of the UK business, a member of the Management formerly a non-executive director of Songbird Estates.
Tim is also Board and an International Director.
Prior to joining LaSalle, he was aTrustee of LandAid, the property industry charity, and chair of their with AXA Real Estate Investment Management for seven years where Grants Committee and is a board member of the Westminster he was Head of Real Estate Fund Management in the UK.
58 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Non-Executive Directors R N R William Jackson Lynn Gladden Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in April 2011 and Senior Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2015.
Skills and experience: Lynn is Shell Professor of Chemical Skills and experience: William is managing partner of Bridgepoint, Engineering at the University of Cambridge and will take up the one of Europes leading private equity groups, which he has led since role of Executive Chair of the Engineering and Physical Sciences 2001.
He also serves as chairman of the board of Pret A Manger and Research Council in October 2018.
Lynn is also a commissioner president of Dorna Sports SL the rights holder to the Moto GP world of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, a fellow of motorcycling championships.
He has served on a range of boards both the Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Engineering, during his career, including Hamptons Group Limited and Alliance and a non-executive director of IP Group plc.
Lynn was pro-viceMedical Holdings Limited, and has extensive operational and chancellor for research at Cambridge until the end of 2015. transaction experience.
A A Alastair Hughes Nicholas Macpherson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2018.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2016.
Skills and experience: Alastair is a fellow of the Royal Institute of Skills and experience: Nicholas is chairman of C. Hoare & Co and Chartered Surveyors.
He is a non-executive director of Schroders a director of The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Real Estate Investment Trust Limited and has over 25 years of He alsoserves as a crossbencher in the House of Lords, a visiting experience in global real estate markets.
He is a former director of Professor at Kings College London and a Trustee of the Royal Mint Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. JLL having served as managing director Museum.
Nicholas was the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury for of JLL in the UK, as chief executive for Europe, Middle East and over 10 years from 2005 to March 2016, leading the department through Asia and then as regional CEO for Asia Pacific.
the financial crisis and the subsequent period of banking reform.
He joined the Treasury in 1985 and held a number of roles prior to his appointment as Permanent Secretary.
Nicholas trained as an economist and has worked at the CBI and Peat Marwick Consulting.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors R A N Preben Prebensen Tim Score Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2017.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2014.
Skills and experience: Preben is group chief executive of Close Skills and experience: Tim is a non-executive director of Pearson plc Brothers Group plc.
He spent over 23 years in a number of senior and HM Treasury, sits on the board of trustees of the Royal National positions at JP Morgan.
Preben was previously chief executive Theatre, and is chairman of the Football Associations audit ofWellington Underwriting plc from 2004 to 2006, and then committee.
He was formerly chief financial officer of ARM Holdings chiefinvestment officer and a member of the group executive PLC and held senior financial positions at Rebus Group Limited, committee at Catlin Group Limited.
William Baird plc, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.
From 2005 to 2014, he was a non-executive director of National Express Group PLC, including time as interim chairman and six years as senior independent director.
R A Laura Wade-Gery Rebecca Worthington Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in May 2015.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2018.
Skills and experience: Laura is a non-executive director of John Lewis Skills and experience: Rebecca is group chief financial officer of Partnership plc, a non-executive director and chair of the remuneration Countryside Properties PLC.
She spent 15 years at Quintain Estates committee of Immunocore Limited, a trustee of the Royal Opera and Development PLC, first as finance director and latterly as deputy House, a director of Snape Maltings Trading Limited and a member chief executive.
Rebecca was a non-executive director and chair of of the Government Digital Strategy Advisory Board.
Between July the audit committee at Hansteen Holdings plc until 20 March 2018, 2011 and September 2016, Laura was executive director Multi and a non-executive director of Aga Rangemaster Group plc to Channel at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Rebecca qualified as a chartered accountant served in a number of senior positions at Tesco PLC and was with  LLP.
a non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc.
60 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Incoming Executive Director Company Secretary Simon Carter Brona McKeown Chief Financial Officer General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointment date: 21 May 2018.
Appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary in Skills and experience: Simon joins British Land from Logicor, the January 2018. owner and operator of European logistics real estate, where he has Skills and experience: Before joining British Land, Brona was served as chief financial officer since January 2017.
Prior to joining General Counsel and Company Secretary of The Co-operative Logicor, from 2015 to 2017 Simon was finance director at Quintain Bank plc for four years as part of the restructuring executive team.
Simon previously spent over 10 years with Immediately prior to that she was Interim General Counsel and British Land, working in a variety of financial and strategic roles, and was Secretary at the Coventry Building Society.
Until October 2011, a member of our Executive Committee from 2012 until his departure Brona was Global General Counsel of the Corporate division of in January 2015.
Simon also previously worked for UBS in fixed income Barclays Bank plc, having joined Barclays in 1998.
Brona trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Simon and spent a number of years at a large City law firm.
holds a degree in economics from the University of Cambridge.
1 Changes to the Board Directors core areas of expertise Property 35% Lucinda Bell Stood down as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 19 January 2018 Finance 41% Retail and consumer Aubrey Adams Retired as Non-Executive Director 12% on 31 December 2017 Academic 6% Simon Borrows Retired as Non-Executive Director Public sector 6% on 18 July 2017 1 Lord Turnbull Retired as Non-Executive Director Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
on 18 July 2017 Board Committee membership key A R Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member N Nomination Committee member Chairman of a Board Committee British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
