Governance DIRECTORS REPORT AND ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES Directors Report and additional disclosures Board of Directors The Directors present their Report on the affairs of the Group, The names and biographical details of the Directors and details together with the audited financial statements and the report of the of the Board Committees of which they are members are set out auditor for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The Directors Report is on pages 58 to 61 and incorporated into this Report by reference.
also the Management Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 for Changes to the Directors during the year and up to the date of this the purpose of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Information Report are set out on page 61.
The Companys current Articles that is relevant to this Report, and which is incorporated by reference require any new Director to stand for election at the next AGM and including information required in accordance with the UK following their appointment.
The current Articles also require each Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located in the Director to stand for re-election at the third AGM following their following sections: election.
However, in accordance with the Code and the Companys current practice, all continuing Directors offer themselves for Information Section in Annual Report Page election or re-election, as required, at the AGM.
Future developments of the Strategic Report 8 to 25 Details of the Directors interests in the shares of the Company and business of the Company any awards granted to the Executive Directors under any of the Risk factors and principal risks Strategic Report 48 to 55 Companys all-employee or executive share schemes are given in Financial instruments Strategic Report 45 to 47 the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 91.
The Service risk management objectives Agreements of the Executive Directors and the Letters of Appointment and policies of the Non-Executive Directors are also summarised in the Directors Dividends Strategic Report 43 Remuneration Report and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Sustainability governance Strategic Report 31 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic Report 31 The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Viability and going concern Strategic Report 51 and 67 Companys Articles, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and any statements related legislation.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Governance arrangements Governance 62 to 91 Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
In addition to any power of Employment policies and Strategic Report 17 and 30 removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may employee involvement by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiry of their Capitalised interest Financial statements 119 to 120 period of office.
Additional unaudited Other information 164 to 176 financial information unaudited Directors interests in contracts and conflicts of interest Annual General Meeting AGM No contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys The 2018 AGM will be held at 11.00am on 17 July 2018 at business in which any Director was materially interested.
The Montcalm London Marble Arch, 2 Wallenberg Place, London W1H 7TN.
The Companys procedures for managing conflicts of interest by the Directors are set out on page 66.
Provisions are also contained in the A separate circular, comprising a letter from the Chairman of the Companys Articles which allow the Directors to authorise potential Board, Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes on the resolutions conflicts of interest.
being proposed, has been circulated to shareholders and is available on our website at w w w. britishland.
Directors liability insurance and indemnity The Company maintains appropriate Directors & Officers liability Articles of Association insurance cover in respect of any potential legal action brought The Companys Articles of Association Articles may only be against its Directors.
amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles, the Directors The Company has also indemnified each Director to the extent may exercise all powers of the Company.
permitted by law against any liability incurred in relation to acts or omissions arising in the ordinary course of their duties.
The indemnity The Articles are available on the Companys website at arrangements are qualifying indemnity provisions under the w w w. britishland.
Companies Act 2006 and were in force throughout the year.
92 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Share capital Substantial interests The Company has one class of shares, being ordinary shares of All notifications made to British Land under the Disclosure and 25 pence each, all of which are fully paid.
The rights and obligations Transparency Rules DTR 5 are published on a Regulatory attached to the Companys shares are set out in the Articles.
There Information Service and made available on the Investors section are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except in relation to of our website.
Real Estate Investment Trust restrictions.
As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified of the The Directors were granted authority at the 2017 AGM to allot following interests in its ordinary shares in accordance with DTR 5. relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 85,817,956 as well as The information provided is correct at the date of notification: an additional authority to allot shares to the same value on a rights Interests in Percentage issue.
This authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
ordinary holding At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the authority shares disclosed % to allot relevant securities.
BlackRock, Inc. 98,113,953 9.98 At the 2017 AGM, the Directors were also given power by the Norges Bank 51,439,045 4.99 shareholders to make market purchases of ordinary shares GIC Private Limited 41,121,137 3.99 representing up to 10% of its issued capital at that time, being APG Asset Management N. V. 39,851,884 4.00 102,981,547 ordinary shares.
This authority will also expire at the 2018 AGM and it is proposed that the renewal of that authority will Since year end, BlackRock, Inc. has submitted a number of be sought.
notifications to the Company, all of which have been disclosed to the market.
The latest notification dated 23 April 2018 advises that they In July 2017, the Board decided that the strength of the investment indirectly hold 98,224,793 ordinary shares, representing 9.99% of the market and the continuing discount in the Companys share price Companys issued share capital.
meant that the best use of capital would be to undertake a share buyback.
As a result, during the year ended 31 March 2018, the Change of control Company repurchased 47,607,139 ordinary shares of 25 pence each The Groups unsecured borrowing arrangements include provisions for an aggregate consideration of 300 million.
This represents that may enable each of the lenders or bondholders to request 4.85% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in Treasury repayment or have a put at par within a certain period following a at that date.
All shares repurchased during the year were cancelled.
change of control of the Company.
In the case of the Sterling bond this arises if the change of control also results in a rating downgrade The Company continued to hold 11,266,245 ordinary shares in to below investment grade.
In the case of the convertible bond there treasury during the whole of the year ended 31 March 2018 and may also be an adjustment to the conversion price applicable for a to the date of this Report.
limited period following a change of control.
Further details relating toshare capital, including movements during There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors the year, are set out innote 20 to the financial statements.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs specifically because of a takeover, merger Rights under an employee share scheme or amalgamation with the exception of provisions in the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with some of share plans which could result in options and awards vesting or the Companys employee share plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may becoming exercisable on a change of control.
exercise all rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares in accordance with their fiduciary duties other than as specifically Payments policy restricted in the documents which govern the relevant employee We recognise the importance of good supplier relationships to the share plan.
overall success of our business.
We manage dealings with suppliers ina fair, consistent and transparent manner.
Waiver of dividends Blest Limited acts as trustee Trustee of the Companys Events after the balance sheet date discretionary Employee Share Trust EST.
The EST holds and, from Details of subsequent events, if any, can be found in note 26 on page 146. time to time, purchases British Land ordinary shares in the market, for the benefit of employees, including to satisfy outstanding awards Political donations under the Companys various executive employee share plans.
The Company made no political donations during the year 2017: nil.
A dividend waiver is in place from the Trustee in respect of all dividends payable by the Company on shares which it holds in trust.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT AND ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Community investment Health and safety Our financial donations to good causes during the year totalled We have retained formal recognition of our focus on health and 1,687,000 2017: 1,351,000.
Our Community Investment Committee safety through a successful audit of our OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
approves all expenditure from our Community Investment Fund and We continue to improve our approach to health and safety reports to the Executive Committee on an annual basis.
management to ensure that we consistently achieve best practice across all activities in the business construction, managed portfolio In addition, the Company also supports fundraising and payroll giving and head office to deliver Places People Prefer to our employees for causes that matter to staff.
This support includes: and our customers.
50% uplift of staff payroll giving contributions capped at 5,000 RIDDOR for the year ended 31 March 2018 per person and 50,000 per annum for the whole organisation Total RIDDOR A staff matched funding pledge, matching money raised for incidents Injury rate charity by staff up to 750 per person per year 2018 2017 2018 2017 We also support fundraising by the teams managing our retail and Construction 3 2 0.13 0.08 per 100,000 office properties around the UK by: hours worked Retail 30 22 0.01 0.01 per 100,000 Matching up to 1,000 for site fundraising initiatives per year, footfall per location Offices 4 8 12.88 23.51 per 100,000 Extending our staff matching funding pledge to on site employees workers of Broadgate Estates Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary Head Office 0 0 0 0 per 100,000 Our community investment is guided by our Local Charter, which full time we updated in 2018 to increase focus on five priorities around equivalents our places: Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
Connecting with local communities Auditor and disclosure of information Supporting educational initiatives for local people Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this Report Supporting local training and jobs confirms that: Supporting local businesses Contributing to local peoples wellbeing and enjoyment So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information that has not been brought to the attention of the Through our community investment and Local Charter activity, we auditor connect with communities where we operate, make positive local The Director has taken all steps that he she should have taken contributions, help people fulfil their potential, help businesses grow, to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and promote wellbeing and enjoyment.
This all supports our strategy and to establish that the Companys auditor was aware of to create Places People Prefer.
that information PwC has indicated its willingness to remain in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution to reappoint PwC as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 16 May 2018 andsigned on its behalf by: Brona McKeown General Counsel and Company Secretary Community The British Land Company PLC investment in Company Number: 621920 action Young people taking part in one of the educational initiatives we support, linking to career paths in our sector.
94 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018
