Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Customer Orientation How we shop The retail sector continues to see significant structural change, with the impact of online responding to changing lifestyles fundamentally changing the way people shop.
Despite this, our insights demonstrate that physical retail remains core to the retail proposition, with physical stores playing a role in 87% of retail sales.
This may be at the discovery phase of the consumer journey, where stores act as a showroom, the transaction phase, when the goods are Our customers are the organisations Delivering space which reflects the way actually purchased, or the fulfilment located at our assets.
To make our places people want to work also helps employers phase, when they change hands.
successful and sustainable however, we attract and retain talent and promote also focus on the needs of a broader range productivity.
The types of businesses The role of the physical store is changing, of people, including the people who shop or demanding space are also changing.
to support and enhance these phases of the work in them and the communities who We are meeting the need for greater customer experience.
We are responding by live in and around them.
We are focused flexibility, particularly from the growing evolving the nature of our spaces to perform on understanding and responding to their small and medium sized business segment, the showrooming role as effectively as changing needs.
To do this we have developed by providing space on more flexible terms, possible.
By improving the food, beverage a deep understanding of how people use our through Storey, our flexible workspace and leisure offer at our centres, shoppers space, based on what our customers tell us.
Launched this year, Storey is an are encouraged to stay longer and spend This informs our approach to managing our important and growing part of our campus more.
Our surveys show that when customers assets and guides our investment activity, to proposition.
It is complementary to our core engage with our catering offer, retail spend ensure we are always focused on the customer.
offering, providing our customers with increases by an average of 27%.
Our Retail flexible space for short term requirements.
centres also play an important role in the How we work After a positive start, we have plans to grow fulfilment of online purchases, with 27% Technology is changing the way businesses this business further.
of shoppers having used click and collect, and their people use office space, enabling up from 19% three years ago.
people to work more flexibly or remotely and providing the infrastructure for smaller companies to compete with larger, well established businesses.
There is a growing focus on places that foster collaboration and networking and reflect theoverlap between work and leisure time, with a diverse retail, leisure and food and beverage offering close by, and regular social events and activities.
Wellbeing To make our places more dementia friendly we are rolling out training, improving signage and exploring new opportunities.
This year, 130 local people affected by dementia also recorded memories for loved ones through our Down Memory Lane project at eight assets, supporting their wellbeing and fostering community links.
52% average increase in traffic at retailers website ahead of new store openings 46,000 customer surveys conducted by British Land throughout the year 14 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Community As part of our Local Charter activity Right Places creating great to promote a sense of community at our places and make a positive local difference, we run several successful environments inside and out arts programmes for young people.
Through Creative Curriculum, 199 local schoolchildren visited our campuses this year and created original artworks, inspired by what they had seen and supported by professional artists.
4.6bn assets located close to Crossrail stations 60% of the portfolio in London including all Offices Canada Water is the strongest example of this, but our plans at Eden Walk, Ealing and The Woolwich Estate will also regenerate Our Placemaking Framework R e g io n a l significant areas of London.
Our practical approach to creating Places People Prefer 12 Retail centres attracting visitors from Focusing on omni-channel retail a wide catchment for a planned trip Our Retail portfolio is focused on centres which support retailers omni-channel approach.
Our Regional assets are destinations, which attract visitors from Lo c al a wide catchment who come to shop, 32 Retail centres fitting into the daily relax and be entertained, and our Local life of communities assets provide convenience shopping for local communities.
Right Places is about identifying places with Brexit-related uncertainties, Londons Our placemaking framework provides the potential to evolve in line with changing proven ability to adapt and prosper has a structure to deliver these different lifestyles.
Increasingly we are focused on ensured its continued attraction to experiences.
Our investment in our Regional places with a broad mix of uses, allowing international business and capital.
assets has focused on attractive, wellpeople to integrate their work and leisure designed leisure extensions, enabling us time within attractive and engaging Our London campuses each benefit from to expand our leisure and catering offer, environments.
We use our placemaking excellent transport infrastructure: providing people with more reasons to visit framework to achieve this, and it supports Broadgate and Paddington Central will and to stay longer.
We are enhancing this growth and returns across our business.
have Crossrail stations immediately space with events and activities and adjacent to the campuses and Regents improved customer service.
Focusing on London Place has convenient access to six London Our entire Office portfolio and nearly 90% underground lines as well as Kings Cross At our Local assets, our activity has focused of our development pipeline is focused on and Euston mainline stations.
on connecting more with local communities, London, including our three office-led forging strong links which encourage repeat campuses and Canada Water, our 53 acre Places which are curated to respond to visits, for example through our work with mixed use regeneration project.
London changing lifestyles have the potential to theNational Literacy Programme, helping consistently ranks amongst the worlds deliver growth and returns long term.
young children to read, and our Bright leading cities as a place to live, work and This underpins our growing focus on LightsStarting Out in Retail course, do business, reflecting its diverse pool mixed use development which prioritises supporting local skills and employment.
of international talent, culture and placemaking from the start.
entertainment as well as its legal and financial infrastructure.
Despite the British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Futureproofing Capital Efficiency Through our energy efficiency and emissions programme, we have delivered around 14 million gross disciplined use of capital savings for us and our customers 6 million net since 2012, whilst optimising lighting, temperature and air quality to enhance the wellbeing of the people who use our buildings.
This also helps us protect asset value for investors.
8.5bn capital activity in the last five years, including acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure Capital allocation We have a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Our activity covers a range of options including funding acquisitions, investing in our development pipeline to drive future growth and shareholder returns.
We rigorously evaluate the relative merits of each based on their risk-adjusted returns and prevailing market conditions.
The starting point is our annual IRR process, which forecasts the prospective returns of each of our assets.
We sell assets with the lowest prospective returns, reallocating capital to higher growth opportunities.
In recent years, disposal activity has focused on mature and off strategy assets, including supermarkets and solus retail, or offices which are fully let with lower prospective returns.
Acquisitions have focused on properties with significant growth or placemaking potential which, in many cases, are adjacent to existing assets, generating washover benefits across the combined space.
a 300 million share buyback whilst doubling mix of funding, phased maturity, adequate the size of our development pipeline and flexibility and liquidity and strong balance Developments have delivered some of further reducing leverage.
ourstrongest returns, but are inherently higher risk, particularly when pursued on Debt and equity Strategic partnerships a speculative basis.
We seek to limit our We manage our debt and equity financing We have a strong track record of working development exposure to 15% of the total to balance the benefits of leverage, with partners to achieve benefits of scale investment portfolio by value, with a including higher returns to shareholders, while managing risk.
36% of our owned maximum of 8% tobe developed against the risks of a more highly geared assets are held in joint ventures and funds, speculatively i. e. without apre-let or portfolio.
Our primary measure of including Broadgate and Meadowhall.
Within agreed sale at any time.
The current leverage is loan to value LTV on a these structures we typically earn fees by level is 4.5%, well within this limit.
proportionally consolidated basis which providing asset management, development, we aim to manage through the property corporate and finance services.
These Through this approach we have created cycle such that our financial position would experiences, and the relationships we have attractive development opportunities within remain robust in the event ofa significant developed, position us well to progress our portfolio, and our balance sheet provides fall in property values.
The scale of our some of our larger opportunities, including the flexibility to progress these, with costs on business, quality of our assets and Canada Water.
our committed pipeline substantially covered security of our rental streams enable by residential receipts.
This is an important usto access a broad range of debt finance For more information on debt and leverage go to our Financial review on page 41 and advantage, which we balance against the onattractive terms.
At a Group level, our Financial policies and principles on page 45. benefits to shareholders of a more immediate approach is to raise funds predominantly capital return.
This year we have completed on an unsecured basis, with a diversified 16 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Expert People the This year British Land was awarded our first Two Star accreditation in the Best Companies survey published by The Sunday Times, with knowledge and skills to deliver particular progress in flexible working and personal growth.
Broadgate Estates our property management subsidiary also achieved its second One Star accreditation.
Management engages regularly with employees, including through twice monthly staff meetings and specific results and strategy updates.
Colleagues at all levels Investing in our people our Ethnic Diversity Network and our can participate in our all-employee share Our people strategy focuses on creating a Parents and Carers Network, alongside schemes, aligning their interests with those team which can deliver Places People Prefer.
our successful Womens Network, BL Pride, of shareholders with 95% of employees To do this we will continue to enhance the our LGBT and Allies Network and our participating in our Share Incentive Plan.
diversity of our business, further benefitting Wellbeing Committee.
To help people from a broad range of skills, backgrounds balance their working lives with the interests Tomorrows team and experience.
and responsibilities they have outside work, We recognise the importance of investing we provide everyone with the technology in tomorrows workforce, both for British We support all employees with career they need to work flexibly, with circa 20% Land and our customers and partners.
progression through personal development doing so on a formal basis.
Alongside our long-standing internship plans and by providing opportunities for scheme, our graduate scheme is now in its everyone to develop and excel.
This year, We encourage all of our people to support second year with six graduates recruited.
we invested more than 550,000 in staff local communities through volunteering and Three are joining this year, of whom one development and professional qualifications, are pleased that 16% of the British Land team came through Pathways to Property, an including a range of online resources available was involved in skills-based volunteering this initiative led by the University of Reading to all employees: customer focused sales year, including roles as charity trustees and to promote property in UK state schools, training which has been rolled out across school governors.
Since autumn 2017, which we have supported for five years.
British Land: and our residential Leadership in 20 employees have signed up to the Step Another three are joining next year.
Real Estate programme which has benefitted on Board programme, an external service Across our portfolio, 20,114 people 57 of our team since launch in 2014. that supports employees to volunteer as benefitted from our skills, employment non-executive directors and trustees of and educational initiatives in the year.
In view of our increasing focus on mixed charities and voluntary organisations.
use property and development, we encourage cross-team collaboration so that expertise in one part of the business benefits other areas.
We are also building our marketing capabilities to help ensure customer orientation is at the core of what we do and investing in technology, upgrading our core operational systems and processes, whilst enhancing our cyber and data security processes.
Supporting wellbeing and inclusion To support the wellbeing of our team and as part of our commitment to building an inclusive culture, this year we established 11th Chris Grigg ranked 11th of Ally Executives by OUTstanding and the Financial Times Skills and opportunity Through our Bright Lights Starting Out in Retail training programme we engaged 35 retail and leisure occupiers this year and supported 100 unemployed young people into jobs, growing local skills and employment.
This is helping our customers secure their skilled workforce of the future and promoting social mobility.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
