Strategic Report CASE STUDY MEADOWHALL Meadowhall a vibrant destination for today and tomorrow Meadowhall, located on the outskirts of Sheffield, is Yorkshires premier shopping destination and one of only six out-of-town super-regional shopping centres in the UK.
It provides 1.5 million sq ft of high quality retail and leisure space to around 280 occupiers.
Our planned leisure extension will transform the leisure offer, which currently comprises an 11-screen Vue cinema and more than 50restaurants and cafes.
3m 24m people in Meadowhalls in annual footfall catchment This year our surveys showed: 4% 12% increase in dwell time increase in frequency of visit 7% 5% increase in how the increase in overall quality of the architecture centre rating is perceived w w w. meadowhall.
co. uk Attracting new occupiers 82,000 sq ft of lettings to new retailers since we started our refurbishment Improving the experience 60m refurbishment completed with a further 46 million invested in store upgrades by nearly 80 brands, strengthening appeal to new customers, with 28 new retailers signed, driving improved performance across the centre.
The work was carried out overnight without any loss in trading hours.
Our customers were incredibly cooperative and traded as normal, ensuring shoppers continued to enjoy their visits.
20 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Supporting fulfilment as retail evolves Our most recent survey found that 7% of visitors had used click and collect facilities on the day of their visit, more than double the proportion from the same period in 2016.
Broadening our target market Following the successful completion of the redevelopment, and having attracted a broader range of aspirational brands, the shopper profile has become more affluent, with 15.3% now from the three most wealthy consumer groups as per Supporting local the Acorn classification, compared to 13.3% a year ago.
employment Strengthening community links 24 7% increase in routine top up shopping missions demonstrating apprenticeships supported and Meadowhalls role as a town and community centre.
more than 1,200 jobs created to deliver the refurbishment.
Experiential shopping 60% of people visit Meadowhall on a destination shopping trip, with our planned leisure extension expected to strengthen its role in attracting visitors for a big day out.
Enlivening our space 15,000 raised for charity by Christmas concert featuring Craig David.
Sustainability in action 36m boost for the regional economy through the Meadowhall refurbishment, with 69% of construction spend awarded to firms within25 miles of the centre, including small businesses.
The area is lighter, brighter and more aspirational.
Sushi have jumped, were up 20% since therefurbishment and its growing.
Sushi British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
