FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES We focus on having an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding which enables us to deliver our property strategy Leverage Managing interest rate exposure We manage our use of debt and equity finance to balance the benefits We manage our interest rate profile separately from our debt, of leverage against the risks, including magnification of property considering the sensitivity of underlying earnings to movements valuation movements.
A loan to value ratio LTV measures our inmarket rates of interest over a five-year period.
The Board sets leverage, primarily on a proportionally consolidated basis including appropriate ranges of hedged debt over that period and the longer our share of joint ventures and funds and excluding non-controlling term.
Our debt finance is raised at both fixed and variable rates.
At 31 March 2018, our proportionally consolidated LTV Derivatives primarily interest rate swaps and caps are used to was28.4% and the Group measure was 22.1%.
We manage our LTV achieve the desired interest rate profile across proportionally through the property cycle such that our financial position would consolidated net debt.
At 31 March we had interest rate hedging remain robust in the event of a significant fall in property values.
on80% of our debt spot, and on 60% of our projected debt on Thismeans we do not adjust our approach to leverage based on average over the next five years, with a decreasing profile over changes in property market yields.
Consequently, our LTV may be thatperiod.
The use of derivatives is managed by a Derivatives higher in the low point in the cycle and will trend downwards as Committee.
The interest rate management of joint ventures and market yields tighten.
funds is considered separately by each entitys Board, taking into account appropriate factors for its business.
Debt finance The scale of our business combined with the quality of our assets Counterparties and rental income means that we are able to approach a diverse We monitor the credit standing of our counterparties to minimise range of debt providers to arrange finance on attractive terms.
risk exposure in placing cash deposits and arranging derivatives.
Goodaccess to the capital and debt markets is a competitive Regular reviews are made of the external credit ratings of the advantage, allowing us to take advantage of opportunities when they counterparties.
TheGroups approach to debt financing for British Land is to raise funds predominantly on an unsecured basis with our standard Foreign currency financial covenants set out on page 47.
This provides flexibility Our policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or liabilities andlow operational cost.
Our joint ventures and funds which choose denominated in foreign currencies.
When attractive terms are to have external debt are each financed in ring-fenced structures available, the Group may choose to borrow in currencies other without recourse to British Land for repayment and are secured thanSterling, and will fully hedge the foreign currency exposure.
Presented on the following page are the fiveguiding principles that govern the way we structure and managedebt.
Monitoring and controlling our debt We monitor our debt requirement by focusing principally on current and projected borrowing levels, available facilities, debt maturity and interest rate exposure.
We undertake sensitivity analysis to assess the impacts of proposed transactions, movements in interest rates and changes in property values on key balance sheet, liquidity and profitability ratios.
We also consider the risks of a reduction in the availability of finance, including a temporary disruption of the debt markets.
Based on our current commitments and available facilities, the Group has no requirement to refinance until early 2021.
British Lands committed bank facilities total 1.8 billion, of which 1.2 billion was undrawn at 31 March 2018.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Strategic Report FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES CONTINUED Our five guiding principles Diversify We monitor finance markets and seek to access different sources of finance when the relevant market conditions are our sources favourable to meet the needs of our business and, where appropriate, those of our joint ventures and funds.
The scale and of finance quality of our business enables us to access a broad range of unsecured and secured, recourse and non-recourse debt.
We develop and maintain long term relationships with banks and debt investors.
We aim to avoid reliance on particular sources of funds and borrow from a large number of lenders from different sectors in the market across a range of geographical areas, with a total of 30 debt providers in bank facilities and private placements alone.
We work to ensure that debt providers understand our business, adopting a transparent approach to provide sufficient disclosures to enable them to evaluate their exposure within the overall context of the Group.
These factors increase our attractiveness to debt providers, and in the last five years we have arranged 4.1 billion British Land share 3.6 billion of new finance in unsecured and secured bank loan facilities, Sterling bonds, US Private Placements and convertible bonds.
In addition we have existing long dated debentures and securitisation bonds.
A European Medium Term Note programme has also been maintained to enable us to access Sterling Euro unsecured bond markets when it is appropriate for our business: this was used for our 300 million Sterling unsecured bond issuance in September 2017.
4.3bn total drawn debt proportionally consolidated Phase The maturity profile of our debt is managed with a spread of repayment dates, reducing our refinancing risk in respect of maturity timing and market conditions.
As a result of our financing activity, we are ahead of our preferred refinancing date horizon of debt of not less than two years.
The current range of debt maturities is within one to 20 years.
In accordance with our usual portfolio practice, we expect to refinance facilities ahead of their maturities.
8.6 years average drawn debt maturity proportionally consolidated Maintain In addition to our drawn debt, we always aim to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving bank liquidity facilities.
These facilities provide financial liquidity, reduce the need to hold resources in cash and deposits, and minimise costs arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit rates, while reducing credit exposure.
We arrange these revolving credit facilities in excess of our committed and expected requirements to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and new opportunities.
An example of this is our recent amendment and extension of the 735m revolving credit facility, in advance of its maturity, for a new five-year term.
1.2bn undrawn revolving credit facilities Maintain Our facilities are structured to provide valuable flexibility for investment activity execution, whether sales, purchases, flexibility developments or asset management initiatives.
Our unsecured revolving credit facilities provide full operational flexibility of drawing and repayment and cancellation if we require at short notice without additional cost.
These are arranged with standard terms and financial covenants and generally have maturities of five years.
Alongside this unsecured revolving debt our secured term debt in debentures has good asset security substitution rights, where we have the ability to move assets in and out of the security pool.
1.8bn total revolving credit facilities Maintain We use both debt and equity financing.
We manage LTV through the property cycle such that our financial position would strong remain robust in the event of a significant fall in property values and we do not adjust our approach to leverage based balance onchanges in property market yields.
We manage our interest rate profile separately from our debt, setting appropriate sheet ranges of hedged debt over a five-year period and the longer term.
metrics Our senior unsecured credit rating A and long term IDR credit rating Awere upgraded by Fitch during the year.
28.4% A 4.0x LTV proportionally consolidated senior unsecured credit rating interest cover proportionally consolidated 46 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group borrowings Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds Unsecured financing for the Group includes bilateral and syndicated External debt for our joint ventures and funds has been arranged revolving bank facilities with initial terms usually of five years, often through long dated securitisations or secured bank debt, according extendable : US Private Placements with maturities up to 2027: the to the requirements of the business of each venture.
Sterling unsecured bond maturing in 2029: and the convertible bond maturing in 2020.
Hercules Unit Trust and its joint ventures have term loan facilities maturing in 2019 and 2020 arranged for their business and secured Secured debt for the Group excluding debt in Hercules Unit Trust on property portfolios, without recourse to British Land.
These loans which is covered under Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds include LTV ratio with maximum levels ranging from 40% to 65% is provided by debentures with longer maturities up to 2035. and income based covenants.
Unsecured Borrowings and covenants The securitisations of Broadgate 1,565 million, Meadowhall The same financial covenants apply across each of the Groups 643 million and the Sainsburys Superstores portfolio unsecured facilities.
These covenants, which have been consistently 251 million, have weighted average maturities of 10.8 years, agreed with all unsecured lenders since 2003, are: 9.1 years and 4.1 years respectively.
The key financial covenant applicable is to meet interest and scheduled amortisation equivalent Net Borrowings not to exceed 175% of Adjusted Capital to 1 times cover : there are no LTV covenants.
These securitisations and Reserves have quarterly amortisation with the balance outstanding reducing Net Unsecured Borrowings not to exceed 70% of to approximately 15% to 30% of the original amount raised by Unencumbered Assets expected final maturity, thus mitigating refinancing risk.
No income or interest cover ratios apply to these facilities, and there There is no obligation on British Land to remedy any breach of these are no other unsecured debt financial covenants in the Group.
covenants in the debt arrangement of joint ventures and funds.
The Unencumbered Assets of the Group, not subject to any security, stood at 7.7 billion as at 31 March 2018.
Although secured assets are excluded from Unencumbered Assets for the covenant calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from the surplus value of these assets above the related debt and the free cash flow from them.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, these assets generated 53 million of surplus cash after payment of interest.
In addition, while investments in joint ventures do not form part of Unencumbered Assets, our share of free cash flows generated by these ventures is regularly passed up to the Group.
Unsecured financial covenants 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 At 31 March % % % % % Net borrowings to adjusted capital and reserves 40 38 34 29 29 Net unsecured borrowings to unencumbered assets 31 28 29 26 23 Secured borrowings Secured debt with recourse to British Land is provided by debentures at fixed interest rates with long maturities and limited amortisation.
These are secured against a combined pool of assets with common covenants: the value of those assets is required to cover the amount of these debentures by a minimum of 1.5 times and net rental income must cover the interest at least once.
We use our rights under the debentures to actively manage the assets in the security pool, in line with these cover ratios.
We have reduced our debenture debt by 284 million over the last three years as we continue to focus on unsecured finance at a Group level, and have reduced the assets held in the security pool accordingly.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
