Strategic Report CASE STUDY BROADGATE Broadgate where innovation and finance play Broadgate is the largest asset by value within the British Land portfolio.
It is a mixed use campus comprising offices, restaurants, retail and leisure set across four landscaped squares.
Covering 32 acres, it is central Londons largest pedestrianised area.
Broadgate is adjacent to Liverpool Street Station, a Crossrail station from 2019, and connects the creative, tech-focused communities of Spitalfields, Shoreditch and Old Street with the City.
19m 20m people visit Broadgate increase in footfall to each year Liverpool Street with the launch of Crossrail Investing in our places 75% 64% We have more than 1 million sq ft of space of campus workers of campus workers have under development at Broadgate, across engage with food and attended a campus event 100 Liverpool Street, 1 Finsbury Avenue beverage offer weekly based on our surveys and 135 Bishopsgate, of which 32% is based on our surveys let or under offer, significantly reducing our development risk.
Our plans enhance our buildings and w w w. broadgate.
co. uk theshared spaces between them to appeal to a broader range of customers and better connect Broadgate to its surrounding neighbourhoods.
Sustainability in action 3.7m social value added by getting 286 East Londoners into jobs and apprenticeships with our suppliers and customers at Broadgate, growing local skills and employment.
18 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A lifestyle neighbourhood 15% of space currently under development will be retail or food and beverage with 42,000 sq ft let to global retail brand Eataly.
A place for innovation 230,000 sq ft Space taken by TMT and creative businesses including Starling Bank Sharing experience Sharing experience and Innovate Finance at 2FA and 79,000 sq ft let to Mimecast at 1FA.
Construction workers who Construction workers who helped build some of the first Enhanced connectivity helped build some of the first Broadgate buildings worked Broadgate buildings worked alongside new recruits to the Crossrail launches in 2019, transforming Londons alongside new recruits to the industry on the construction connectivity, andbringing our customers to within industry on the construction of of 100 Liverpool Street.
10 minutes of the West End and30minutes of Heathrow.
Introducing Storey Our partners During the year we introduced our flexible workspace brand, Storey, to Broadgate Our joint venture partners GIC atAppoldStudios and 2 Finsbury Avenue.
are fully committed to our vision for Broadgate, enabling us to Storey has attracted a new, different type progress our development pipeline.
of occupier to the campus, including smaller, In addition to the buildings we are innovative businesses and divisions of larger, already delivering, our medium established occupiers.
This is additive to the overall term pipeline covers a further campus offer and environment, benefits larger 1 million sq ft. occupiers and further diversifies our customer mix.
Storey provides over 60,000 sq ft of flexible workspace at Broadgate, of which nearly 95% is let or under offer w w w. storey.
co. uk British Land have delivered a forward thinking, creative and flexible product with digital connectivity that aligns well with our business needs.
William Newton President & EMEA MD WiredScore British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
