t r a p a s u s t e s t a h w n i g P n i r t o s v e i v d n i I n g s e r v O i v e c r e s i s g h i t n & THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our business model What we do What sets us apart Stakeholder outcomes We create value for our stakeholders by developing and selling products and services that are an essential Customers Financial strength 3.0bn Were focused on growing our normalised free part of modern life.
4.3% 2.5m cash flow generated cash flow over the long term.
improvement in BT Call Protect Our purpose is to use the power in 2017 18 Right First Time customers Who we are of communications to make Were one of the worlds leading communications performance a better world.
Were based in the UK and serve customers in 180 countries Our vision is leadership in Our people 105,800 see page 64.
Communities and society converged connectivity and Their commitment, expertise and employees services, brilliantly delivered.
diversity are key to our success.
35.9m 39% 82,200 investment BT people Our goal is to drive sustainable in society volunteer in the UK growth in value.
International Integrated Reporting Councils capitals 374m 109m This key provides a mapping to the capitals of UK corporation raised for the IIRCs Integrated Reporting IR Framework.
Networks and physical assets 27.5m tax good causes We continue to invest in these to You can find out more at: www.
org premises passed by our fibre footprint improve the experience we offer our customers.
Financial 90% Employees Human 4G geographic 74% 86% coverage Manufactured employee maternity Intellectual engagement return rate Research and development outcome c510m Social How were organised Were one of the largest investors R&D spend Natural 11% 1% in research and development in From 1 April 2018 improvement in 97 improvement in the UK.
sickness absence accident rate patents filed Customers Consumer Business and Public Sector Our culture Personal Suppliers Global Services Wholesale and Ventures Openreach The BT Way and our values express Simple 13.7bn how we work together and what we 92% Corporate units Brilliant spent with with top 1,000 expect from our people.
suppliers suppliers Technology, Service and Operations Strategy and Transformation The environment Our brand From 1 October 2018 Our brands are a key asset.
8.9% 1.7% Customers reduction in CO e reduction 2 emissions in energy consumption Consumer Enterprise Global Services Openreach Natural resources 81% We use some natural resources of the electricity we Corporate units in doing business.
buy worldwide Technology, Service and Operations Strategy and Transformation comes from renewable sources 12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 13 t G e o v g e r r n a a l n c t e o s m r e o d d l o e r h n e k l i a f t e s r u o l l a r o f e u l a v g n i t a e r C What we do To be updated And the leaner and more agile we are, and the better we manage our This section details our purpose, goal and costs, the more we can invest in the business while maintaining a strong strategy in the context of our business balance sheet page 16.
Its a virtuous circle that balances short-term performance with long-term value creation.
It also explains how we create value for our stakeholders by providing Investing in what services that are integral to modern life.
sets us apart We invest in building and maintaining communications networks in Our purpose, the UK and overseas.
We also invest in differentiated products, services and applications to run over those networks.
goal and strategy Customer expectations are rising all the time.
We believe that getting our purpose customer experience right is a competitive advantage.
So were Our business model is built around our purpose, which is as simple as it is investing in our people eg more contact centre roles, more multiambitious: to use the power of communications to make a better world.
skilled advisors and our processes eg reducing missed appointments.
Sustainability, ethics and human rights Some of our investments, like TV sports rights, last just a few years.
To achieve our purpose, we must do business responsibly.
That means Other investments, like our fibre broadband network, are much longer behaving ethically, respecting people and the environment.
term, with pay-back periods of more than a decade.
We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact principles and were actively contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We have a distinct combination of people, technology, content, networks and other physical assets that sets us apart from competitors.
Importantly, We have a steering group that oversees human rights governance we also have the financial strength to keep investing in these areas while and policies and were committed to implementing the UN Guiding balancing short, medium and long-term interests Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Every year we publish a statement which sets out our stance on Providing services modern slavery and human trafficking.
And we dont tolerate bribery or corruption.
integral to modern life We sell fixed-voice, broadband, mobile and TV products and services to individuals and households in the UK.
For businesses we offer Non-financial information reporting communications services ranging from phone and broadband through New regulations on non-financial information mean we must to complex managed networks and IT services and cybersecurity report on the following topics: protection.
Many public services rely on our technologies and in the UK and Ireland we help other communications providers to serve their p21 Respect for human rights p31 Environmental matters own customers.
And underpinning all this, we provide the connectivity p22 Employee matters p34 Anti-corruption and thats essential in a digital economy.
bribery p25 Social matters Theres growing demand for a lot of our products and services because they play such an integral role in modern life.
And well benefit as There are references to our policies in these areas, along with how customers use more digital services and increasingly want value, weve done against various measures, throughout the Strategic reliability and consistent service.
Some of the outcomes feature in the business model graphic on page 13.
Weve listed others in the summary of our nonmarket context financial performance on page 8.
Consumer broadband continues to switch to fibre, to meet customers Read more in our Delivering our Purpose report.
Meanwhile people are making fewer landline calls, replacing them with mobile phones, voice over IP or instant messaging.
In mobile, theres continuing growth in data use and our goal postpaid subscriptions are growing at the expense of prepaid.
Our goal is to drive sustainable growth in value.
Well achieve this by giving our customers a great experience and products and services At the same time, SIM-only tariffs are becoming more popular because they value.
people are keeping their phones for longer.
In TV, theres growth in subscription video-on-demand SVoD, largely as a complement to our strategy pay-TV services.
And customers are increasingly using digital service To follow our purpose and achieve our goal, our strategy is built channels, like apps and online chat, to interact with their service provider.
around the three pillars outlined on page 11: delivering differentiated Business customers are using landlines, leased lines and traditional customer experiences, investing in integrated network leadership, and voice services less as the market moves to data and IP voice.
Other transforming our operating model.
growing areas include cloud services, hosting, security and data protection.
Business broadband is switching to fibre.
And Ethernet and They work together.
The better our customers experience, the more dedicated internet access services are also becoming more widespread well sell and the less time and money well spend putting things right.
as businesses rely more and more on connectivity.
14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion Digitalisation or digital transformation is now a top priority for many Sustainability is integral to our purpose and the value we create.
Were businesses, particularly multinational corporations.
Its not an end in committed to using 100% renewable electricity where markets allow itself.
But it does help companies achieve objectives like transforming and were encouraging our suppliers, customers and people to do the costs, operating more efficiently or improving customer experience.
At the same time, our products and services are helping to tackle Our Cloud of clouds strategy page 65 positions us well to be a climate change.
trusted partner in our customers digital future.
From our operations, supply chain, We aim to be the UKs leading converged operator bringing together and through the energy our customers use to power our products.
our fixed and mobile network assets to make sure our customers But were contributing to a lower-carbon economy by cutting our are always connected to the best possible network, and selling own carbon footprint and helping customers cut theirs.
The emission converged propositions that offer much more than simple bundles.
savings for our customers outweigh our own footprint.
This means Were uniquely placed to do it with the brands, scale and breadth of were a net positive business see page 31. capabilities to benefit from convergence.
From a purely financial perspective, our carbon-saving products and a Our strategy puts us in a strong position to drive, and benefit from, services contribute 5.3bn revenue to our business.
You can find out more in the customer-facing unit sections from page 48.
Oversight channels to market and governance We sell our products and services through our customer-facing units.
The markets we operate in are dynamic and very competitive, We do it through a range of channels including online, contact centres particularly the UK.
There are many risks and opportunities, so its and account managers.
We also have around 600 EE stores in the UK.
important that our strategy and business model are flexible and sustainable.
To help us we: multibrand strategy have a risk management framework to identify and mitigate We have three retail brands page 19.
They let us serve different the challenges we face page 33 sectors of the market and lead to higher consideration by potential use insight teams to keep us in tune with market drivers and customers when theyre deciding whether to buy from us or one of our customer expectations competitors.
Add to that the cross-selling between our retail brands and we have an opportunity to sell more to more people.
talk and listen to our stakeholders to understand whats important to them diverse revenue streams use BT Group plc governance committees to ensure were Our revenue mostly comes from subscriptions or contracts.
Individuals, making the right investments and investing with discipline.
households and SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services, typically on 12- to 24-month contracts.
Pay-as-you-go mobile services are Together, these things help us anticipate and respond to changes in our also available.
markets including macro events like Brexit and the prospect of the UK leaving the single European market.
Large corporate and public sector customers usually buy managed networked IT services on contracts spanning several years.
Wholesale We know we can deliver value over the short, medium and long customer contracts range from one month for regulated products, to term.
Its this confidence that underpins our assessment of the future five years or more for major managed services deals.
prospects and viability of the group.
Other sources of revenue include our ventures page 69, consultancy, device sales and advertising online, BT Sport TV channels and InLinkUK kiosks.
The design council and BT investment Board The Design Council was a sub-committee of BT Group plc Operating Committee.
It was responsible for making sure capital investments in our networks, systems, platforms and products Creating value for reflected our strategy, served the needs of our customers and all our stakeholders were delivered cost-effectively.
The Design Council was dissolved in October 2017 following the creation of the Executive What we do, matters to millions of people.
communicate, enjoy entertainment, do business and generally live their lives.
And we contribute directly to communities and the health From December 2017 the BT Group plc BT Investment Board of the UK by providing jobs, supporting suppliers, paying tax and has been responsible for providing input and recommendations encouraging our people to volunteer.
to support the group chief executive on major capex and opex decisions.
a The list of our carbon-saving products and services is established and verified by Carbon Trust: the associated revenue is based on total external sales, independently verified by Lloyds Register.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 15
