The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our corporate units Technology, Service and Operations TSO is our internal technology unit.
Its responsible for creating and operating our networks, platforms and IT systems.
We work with each of our customer-facing units.
We create new products and services products for them and make sure services evolve to meet their We manage the critical infrastructure customers changing needs.
And we make sure BTs networks and systems stay reliable, resilient and secure.
for BTs products, services and internal systems.
That means our IT systems, There are more than 11,700 people in TSO.
Most of them work in the UK, but we also have 3,300 people in 24 other countries.
This voice, data and TV networks.
We also year we hired more than 240 graduates and apprentices.
invent, design and develop new services In the UK, most of our teams are based at Global Development for customers.
Centres in Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Glasgow, London and Adastral Park in Suffolk: as well as Hatfield, Sheffield, Walsall and Oswestry.
our responsibilities Responsibilities What we do Our teams give vital support to the rest of BT.
Were responsible Covering our technology estate, IT On page 17 weve set out that weve extended both our 4G and for BTs technical systems, processes and networks.
ESN coverage and brought together BT and EE IT systems to reduce strategy.
Everything we use to deliver our costs.
Weve also filed 97 applications for new inventions as set out technology capabilities to the rest of BT.
We manage BTs Working with the customer-facing units end-to-end technical and BT Group.
We design, test, build That includes the groups broadband, and run BTs main Ethernet, VPN, internet, wi-fi and global physical asset mobile platforms in the UK.
It also our network and includes all non-UK IP, data, voice, its critical supporting multimedia, cloud and transmission infrastructure.
We also deliver and manage the Emergency Services Network ESN contract.
You can read more about our networks on page 16.
We design, build, test Supporting services like TV and and run BTs service broadband, interactions with customers, and IT platforms.
and the services our people use to do their jobs.
You can find out more on page 17.
Were responsible You can read more about our for BTs R&D and R&D on page 17. worldwide patent portfolio.
We manage These companies depend on us networks for many for their communications.
of the worlds top companies.
We manage BTs Our job is to make sure national, regional relationships with and international standards support our standards bodies.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 79 Our corporate units continued Technology, Service and Operations continued our responsibilities continued investing for growth 2 Responsibilities What we do Were investing in our network to provide greater speeds and We combine the Running programmes to find new and capacity for our customers.
latest innovations exciting ways to use technology to from around the generate revenues or cut costs.
Thanks to our investments, we were able to satisfy peak demand in world, with work our core network of 9.75Tbps this year.
And at Glastonbury festival from our own worldwe served EE customers with over 54TB of mobile data, twice as leading researchers.
We monitor Enhancing our cyber defence capabilities cyber attacks on and investing more in automatic 3 Transforming our costs our networks detection and prevention systems.
By removing old technologies and consolidating IT equipment we are trimming back our operating costs.
Weve removed 100 System-X switches from our network saving performance in the year strategic 60,000 tonnes of C0 and 6m on energy every year.
2 TSO helps deliver BT strategy.
In our exchanges were continuing to install water-based adiabatic cooling.
Its more energy-efficient than the air-based systems of the Were responsible for the technology that the rest of the group past and costs less to run.
We are constantly on the lookout for ways to improve our networks, platforms and IT systems.
performance in the year operating delivering great customer experience 1 We never stop looking for new ways By developing technologies to enable new services and make to maintain and improve our networks existing ones better were transforming our customers experience.
We use two sets of measures to monitor how our network and Weve reduced the groups energy consumption.
There are more platforms are doing.
This year weve improved our broadband performance score.
That means broadband customers are getting better service despite Our customers demand for data keeps rising.
This year consumer higher traffic levels.
Weve seen sustained, record levels over Weve also improved our IT and network service availability score, the last 12 months.
So weve focused our investments on keeping making it easier for customers to do business with us.
performance and coverage levels high.
Weve diverted more than 90m unwanted or nuisance calls for the 2.5m customers using BT Call Protect.
This year we completed one of the largest ever Global Services migration programmes.
We worked with vendors, other service Working with EE, weve driven the adoption of eSIM electronic SIM providers and some of our biggest multinational customers technology.
Instead of being a removable card, eSIM sits on a chip updating network equipment to the latest versions, protecting and inside a device which lets smaller gadgets like watches connect to securing services for the future.
This technology was instrumental in the launch of the Apple Watch Series 3 on EEs 4G network.
The watch lets You can read more on page 16 about the improvements weve been wearers leave their phone at home and still be connected.
making to our network, service and IT platforms.
The table below shows how weve done against the priorities we set out in last years report.
80 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Review of last years priorities our top priorities for 2018 19 What we said What we did Improving customer experience Well continue to drive Right First Time as our quality Enhance the UK Weve upgraded around 935 exchanges methodology.
and switched more than 309,000 customers to faster broadband services Well enhance the ways customers can talk to us.
We want them overnight with no impact on their to be able to use the internet, mobile apps and Alexa-like voiceservice.
These customers now have a based interfaces for service queries.
better service on more energy-efficient To get deeper customer insights well combine new tools with Big technology thats cheaper to run.
Extend 4G coverage Weve expanded our geographic Innovating for new products and services to support the ESN coverage to over 90%, with 323 We will create new converged products that seamlessly blend contract.
new sites deployed for the ESN.
For business customers well offer flexible software-based Make our systems Weve improved our IT and network network solutions with powerful analytical capabilities.
Well work with industry partners to bring innovative products, services, devices and capabilities to our customers.
And weve achieved 99.999% availability in our core network for Investing in our network broadband customers.
Well use the latest FTTP innovations to improve how our ultrafast products perform and extend the reach of our NGA network BT at the forefront of 5g platform.
While continuing to lead the way in 4G, well begin deployment 5G is the next generation of mobile.
And were working with of 5G at pace across the country, enabling exciting new industry and academic partners to specify and standardise it.
5G will opportunities like Smart Cities and Industrial Automation.
give our customers higher speeds and lower latency shorter delays, making it suitable for things like driverless cars.
We will increase network automation using telemetry and modelbased technologies.
This will improve network provisioning and capacity planning.
Well also use more artificial intelligence technologies to manage the network.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 81
