Report of the directors statutory information REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2017 18 financial year.
The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on pages 106 to 191. Dividend No dividend was paid to the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited, during 2017 18 2016 17: 2,350m: 2015 16: 1,450m.
Subsequent to 31 March 2018, the directors have declared a final dividend of 2,500m payable in 2018 19 2016 17: nil: 2015 16: 2350m.
Principal activity The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, which is the ultimate parent company.
BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
We serve the needs of customers in the UK and in 180 countries worldwide.
Our main activities are the provision of fixed-line services, broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as networked IT services.
In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, selling products and services to consumers, small and medium sized enterprises and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale products and services to communications providers in the UK and around the world.
Globally, we supply managed networked IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and local government organisations.
Directors The directors at 31 March 2018 were Glyn Parry who served throughout 2017 18 and Patrick Bradley, Neil Harris and Simon Lowth who were appointed on 17 October 2017.
Sean Williams served as a director until 29 September 2017 and Linda Bruce-Watt served as a director from 29 September 2017 until 17 October 2017.
Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity BT Group plc purchases insurance to cover the directors, officers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries.
This is intended to protect against defence costs, civil damages and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The policy also covers individuals serving as directors of other companies or of joint ventures or on boards of trade associations or charitable organisations at BTs request.
The insurance protects the directors and officers directly in circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity.
It also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
As at 23 May 2018, and throughout 2017 18, British Telecommunications plc has provided an indemnity in respect of a similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Financial statements A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 89.
Our critical accounting estimates and key judgements, and significant accounting policies conform with IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB, and are set out on pages 113 to 118 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors have reviewed these policies and applicable estimation techniques, and have confirmed theyre appropriate for the preparation of the 2017 18 consolidated financial statements.
So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
Capital management and funding policy The capital structure of the company is managed by BT Group plc.
The policies described here apply equally to both BT Group plc and BT plc group companies.
a The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding policy is to reduce BT Groups net debt while investing in the business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
a Net debt is a measure of BT Group plcs consolidated net indebtedness that provides an indicator of the overall balance sheet strength of the group.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
90 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 90 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure regularly.
Management proposes actions which reflect the groups The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the group, investment plans and risk characteristics, as well as the macro-economic conditions in which we operate.
which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2017 18 financial year.
BT Group plcs funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the groups anticipated requirements.
A combination of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing and committed borrowing facilities is used.
When issuing debt, group The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on pages 106 to 191. treasury will take into consideration the maturity profile of the debt portfolio as well as forecast cash flows to avoid refinancing risk.
Dividend Details of our treasury policy are included in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
No dividend was paid to the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited, during 2017 18 2016 17: 2,350m: 2015 16: 1,450m.
Financial instruments Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity Subsequent to 31 March 2018, the directors have declared a final dividend of 2,500m payable in 2018 19 2016 17: nil: risk and foreign exchange are given in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Credit risk management policy Principal activity Proactive steps are taken to minimise the impact of adverse market conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, which is the ultimate parent company.
and derivative financial instruments, BT Group plcs central treasury function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively manages any exposures which arise within BT plc.
Management within the business units also actively monitors any BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
We serve the needs of customers in the UK and in 180 countries exposures arising from trading balances.
Our main activities are the provision of fixed-line services, broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as Off-balance sheet arrangements networked IT services.
Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities disclosed in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, there are no In the UK we are a leading communications services provider, selling products and services to consumers, small and medium sized off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial condition: enterprises and the public sector.
changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital resources.
Legal proceedings We also sell wholesale products and services to communications providers in the UK and around the world.
Globally, we supply managed The group is involved in various legal proceedings, including actual or threatened litigation and, government or regulatory networked IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and local government organisations.
For further details of legal and regulatory proceedings to which the group is party please see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 166 to 168.
Directors The directors at 31 March 2018 were Glyn Parry who served throughout 2017 18 and Patrick Bradley, Neil Harris and Simon Lowth Apart from the information disclosed in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, the group does not currently believe that who were appointed on 17 October 2017.
Sean Williams served as a director until 29 September 2017 and Linda Bruce-Watt served as there are any legal proceedings, government or regulatory investigations that may have a material adverse impact on the operations or a director from 29 September 2017 until 17 October 2017. financial condition of the group.
In respect of each of the claims described in note 29 the nature and progression of such proceedings and investigations can make it difficult to predict the impact they will have on the group.
Many factors prevent us from making these Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity assessments with certainty, including, that the proceedings of investigations are in early stages, no damages or remedies have been BT Group plc purchases insurance to cover the directors, officers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc specified, and or the often slow pace of litigation.
The policy also covers individuals serving as directors of other Going concern companies or of joint ventures or on boards of trade associations or charitable organisations at BTs request.
The insurance protects the The assessment described below applies equally to both BT Group plc and BT plc group companies.
directors and officers directly in circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity.
One layer of insurance is ring-fenced for the directors of BT The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 88 includes information on the group structure, the performance of each of the customer facing Group plc.
units, the impact of regulation and competition and principal risks and uncertainties.
The Group performance section on pages 82 to 88 includes information on our group financial results, cash flow, loans and borrowings and balance sheet position.
Notes 21, 22, 23 As at 23 May 2018, and throughout 2017 18, British Telecommunications plc has provided an indemnity in respect of a similar group and 25 of the consolidated financial statements include information on the groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, loans and of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign exchange, credit and acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Financial statements Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered the groups cash flow forecasts, in particular with reference to the A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors period to the end of May 2019.
The directors are satisfied that these cash flow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk responsibilities on page 89. sensitivities associated with these forecasts and BT Group plcs current funding and facilities, alongside BT Group plcs funding strategy, show that the group will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore continue to have a reasonable Our critical accounting estimates and key judgements, and significant accounting policies conform with IFRSs, as adopted by the expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and continue to European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB, and are set out on pages 113 to 118 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK have reviewed these policies and applicable estimation techniques, and have confirmed theyre appropriate for the preparation of the Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Auditors So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the PwC and its predecessor firms have been BTs auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984.
We reported to you last directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit information year that the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee recommended to the BT Group plc Board that the audit tender process commence and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
with a view to appointing new auditors for the financial year 2018 19.
Capital management and funding policy Two firms, EY and KPMG, were invited to submit tenders.
PwC would not be able to act as auditors beyond 2020 21 and did not The capital structure of the company is managed by BT Group plc.
The policies described here apply equally to both BT Group plc and BT participate.
Deloitte are embedded in our IFRS 15 implementation project and replacing them would have presented an unacceptable plc group companies.
business risk to the company.
a The audit tender process was led by the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee chairman and the proposals presented by EY and KPMG The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding policy is to reduce BT Groups net debt while investing in the business, were subject to detailed evaluation and discussion.
The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee recommended to the Board, who supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
endorsed the appointment of KPMG as the preferred new auditor.
In February 2018, KPMG became independent and planning activities commenced for the 2018 19 audit.
The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
90 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 91 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 91 Report of the directors statutory information continued UK internal control and risk management The Board of BT Group plc is responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those systems each year.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
BT has enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group.
These processes have been in place throughout the year and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes are in accordance with the FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
There is a detailed risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the group, our customer facing units and TSO.
The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and internal control process covering financial, operational and compliance controls are: senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, their owners and mitigation strategies.
BT Group plcs Group Risk Panel and Executive Committee review this before it is reviewed and approved by the BT Group plc Board: the customer facing units and TSO carry out risk assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations and ensure that the key risks are addressed: senior executives with responsibility for major group operations report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of internal controls in their areas of responsibility: the internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the quality of risk management and control, report to management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specific areas identified for improvement and promote effective risk management in the customer facing units and TSO: the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the of BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the groups internal control procedures during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the of BT Group plc Board.
The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2017 18: and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the BT Group plc Board, reviews the effectiveness of risk management arrangements across the group.
In support of this, an annual review meeting is held with the group chief executive and the CEOs of each customer facing unit.
We havent included joint ventures and associates, which BT doesnt control, as part of the group risk management process.
Third parties we enter into joint ventures with are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 113 to 118.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing verification through management review and independent review by internal and external auditors.
The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the financial statements have been documented and are subject to annual verification through the programme of testing done by our internal auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the internal controls over financial reporting, and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
US SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in so far as they apply.
Controls and Procedures Background and status of remediation of material weakness reported in 2017 In October 2016 we reported that following an initial investigation we had identified improper accounting practices in our Italian business.
We had appointed KPMG, with support and oversight from our Legal, Governance and Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee and BT Group chairman, to perform an independent investigation, alongside our own investigation and detailed balance sheet review.
In January 2017 BT Group plc reported that the investigations had revealed that the extent and complexity of the improper practices were greater than previously identified and that these had resulted in an overstatement of profits over a number of years.
The investigations uncovered that individuals in our Italian business colluded to override the period end financial close controls and overstate the results, and the monitoring controls which include the review of reconciliations, journals, results and financial position, did not operate effectively to identify the overstatement in a timely manner.
Management concluded that the group did not maintain effective controls to prevent or detect the collusive circumvention or override of controls related to our Italian business.
Specifically management identified the following internal control deficiencies related to our Italian business and the failure to detect the circumvention or override of controls: i failure in the review of reconciliations, ii failure in the review of journals and iii failure in our monitoring controls over the results and financial position of our Italian business.
Together, these deficiencies constituted a material weakness in the control environment, and management concluded that, as of 31 March 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective.
92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion UK internal control and risk management Remediation The Board of BT Group plc is responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the Beginning in October 2016, and later informed by the results of the KPMG investigation and managements own review, management effectiveness of those systems each year.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve implemented a series of remedial and compensating actions, including suspending key members of the management team in Italy who business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
have now left the business and appointing a new senior management team in Italy, strengthening the monitoring controls and escalation mechanisms in our finance shared service centres, transferring Italy in-country managed customer billing activities to the BT has enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group.
group customer billing team and performing detailed substantive reviews of the balance sheet of our Italian business and other large These processes have been in place throughout the year and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The country operations outside the UK.
The active engagement in the design and implementation of remediation efforts intended to processes are in accordance with the FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
address the material weakness in the control environment as of 31 March 2017 has continued during 2017 18 as described below.
The design and implementation of these and other remedial efforts are the responsibility of management.
We have implemented a number of changes across the group including steps to improve processes and controls, not only in Italy, but also in our shared service centres, in Global Services and across the wider group.
The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and internal control process covering financial, operational and compliance controls are: In relation to the matters that gave rise to the material weakness in the control environment, that existed as of 31 March 2017, we senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, their owners have strengthened our review of reconciliations, journals, results and the financial position for Italy.
BT Group plcs Group Risk Panel and Executive Committee review this before it is reviewed and approved we introduced enhanced and detailed policies and procedures including a detailed checklist that must be followed when reviewing by the BT Group plc Board: any journals in Italy and in our Budapest shared service centre the customer facing units and TSO carry out risk assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations we enhanced the review of reconciliations including the review of significant and aged reconciling items within balance sheet and ensure that the key risks are addressed: account reconciliations senior executives with responsibility for major group operations report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation we introduced new detailed oversight controls to holistically review the results and financial position of Italy and other material of internal controls in their areas of responsibility: overseas territories.
the internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the quality of risk management and control, report to management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specific areas identified for improvement and promote effective risk We also introduced similar enhancements to journals, reconciliation and oversight controls assessing the results and financial position management in the customer facing units and TSO: in relation to other material overseas territories and provided additional control guidance and procedures to local finance teams, the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the of BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the groups including a clear policy as to when and whom concerns should be escalated.
internal control procedures during the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors and reports its Each of these enhanced and new controls is operating effectively.
conclusions to the of BT Group plc Board.
The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2017 18: and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the BT Group plc Board, reviews the effectiveness of risk management We have also sought to improve the capabilities of our functions outside the UK.
We have reviewed the talent mix on international arrangements across the group.
In support of this, an annual review meeting is held with the group chief executive and the CEOs of leadership teams, including establishing an ex-pat programme.
Within Italy, we have made further senior finance appointments, each customer facing unit.
including a new deputy CFO and financial controller.
We have established monitoring to detect early warning signs and assessed target setting and remuneration to ensure it reflects balanced risks and opportunities.
We have continued our programme of detailed balance sheet reviews in our operations in Global Services outside of the UK.
Combined with the reviews performed in 2016 17, these have now covered around 80% by asset value of the operations outside the UK.
These Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 113 to 118.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing reviews have not identified any similar issues or areas of concern elsewhere, giving us comfort that the inappropriate behaviours were verification through management review and independent review by internal and external auditors.
The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the financial statements have been documented and are subject to Across the group, we have enhanced our controls and compliance programmes to strengthen awareness of the standards we expect, annual verification through the programme of testing done by our internal auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the internal and reinforced the importance of doing business in an ethical and disciplined way.
We have also sought to enhance the capabilities of controls over financial reporting, and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All finance employees have completed Financial Statement Fraud awareness training which includes a module on how to US SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 escalate concerns.
We have redefined and communicated our three lines of defence model and developed and communicated these The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with enhanced controls, policies and procedures.
those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements At the group level, we have introduced enhanced integrated financial risk and assurance reviews which combine a review of controls introduced under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in so far as they apply.
and compliance issues, external and internal audit findings, risk registers and legal matters, alongside the reviews of performance, Controls and Procedures financial position, business and accounting issues and quality of earnings analysis of each of our customer-facing units and corporate units.
Background and status of remediation of material weakness reported in 2017 In October 2016 we reported that following an initial investigation we had identified improper accounting practices in our Italian As a result of these remediation efforts, including allowing for a sufficient period of time to confirm that the new processes and controls business.
We had appointed KPMG, with support and oversight from our Legal, Governance and Compliance function and Freshfields put in place as part of the remediation are operating effectively, management has concluded that we have remediated the material Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee and BT Group chairman, to perform weakness identified as of 31 March 2017.
While we are satisfied with the improvements to processes and controls we have an independent investigation, alongside our own investigation and detailed balance sheet review.
In January 2017 BT Group plc implemented in the year, we recognise that further system and process improvement opportunities exist which will continue to be a reported that the investigations had revealed that the extent and complexity of the improper practices were greater than previously focus in 2018 19. identified and that these had resulted in an overstatement of profits over a number of years.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 93 92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 93 Report of the directors statutory information continued Disclosure controls and procedures The principal executive officer and principal financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, concluded that, as of such date, the companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that the material information relating to the company was made known to them by others within the group.
The principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it has under the Securities Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summoned and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer also provided the certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2018 based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Following this assessment, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 31 March 2018.
Audit of the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our independent registered public accounting firm,  LLP, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their report as of 31 March 2018, which is included herein.
CROSS REFERENCE TO THE STRATEGIC REPORT In line with the Companies Act, weve chosen to include the following information in the Strategic Report the following information required by law to be included in the Report of the Directors : an indication of likely future developments in the business of the company see the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 88 : an indication of our R&D activities page 17 : information about our people page 22 : and information about greenhouse gas emissions page 32.
By order of the Board Heather Brierley Secretary 23 May 2018 Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
1800000 94 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 94 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
