Overview British Telecommunications plc the group or the company is the principal operating subsidiary of BT Group plc.
Were a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the group while the Executive Committee of BT Group plc is our key management committee.
It monitors the groups financial, operational and customer service performance and has cross-business oversight of BTs customer-facing units.
It also reviews the groups key risks and considers potential threats and opportunities facing the business.
British Telecommunications plc leverages the governance structure and processes of BT Group plc, including: BT Group plc Board Governance Committee Executive Committee Investment Committee Audit & Risk Committee Key management personnel comprise executive and non-executive directors of the BT Group plc Executive Committee, as well as members of the BT plc Board.
Our strategy Our strategy in the year had three Looking ahead, were evolving our pillars: deliver great customer strategy to build on our strengths experience, invest for growth and and allow us to respond to market transform our costs.
You can find more detail on page 10 They work together: the better our customers experience, the more we sell and the less time and money we spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the more we can invest in improving our customers experience and in products and services that will create growth.
Pages 3 to 7 describe our performance against the strategy.
The graphic below shows the main elements of our strategy in the year.
Youll find more details on our purpose and goal, in the context of our business model, on page 12. our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world our goal Growth to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Broaden and deepen our customer relationships our strategy Deliver great Invest for Transform customer experience growth our costs Focus on Differentiated Market Best network in Fully converged multinational content, services leadership in all the UK service provider companies and applications UK segments globally A healthy organisation Best place to work 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
