Our evolving strategy We have evolved our strategy to focus on converged connectivity and services Well positioned to drive sustained growth in value navigating a demanding environment We have a strong set of assets, including a leading position in the Like all businesses, we must continually adapt to our market UK in fixed and mobile access networks, with strong and clearly environment.
Data consumption and network capacity segmented brands.
We have deep relationships with a wide range requirements are increasing exponentially and our enterprise of customers including 30m consumers, 1m businesses and customers want to migrate from legacy communications around 1,500 multinational corporations.
We also enjoy close products towards digital, converged and secure products and strategic partnerships with key content, technology, device and solutions.
Competition remains intense across the sector from service vendors.
both established players and new entrants.
Combined, this means that we are uniquely positioned to lead We are also seeing a new wave of infrastructure investment in network, product and service convergence across the consumer  and mobile coverage and technology.
and enterprise markets, which we see as a critical market trend And recent regulatory outcomes are reducing Openreachs and an opportunity to drive further value for our business.
returns towards its allowed cost of capital.
An evolution of our strategy We have evolved our strategy to build on our strengths and allow us to respond to market opportunities and challenges.
Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our vision Leadership in converged connectivity and services, brilliantly delivered Our goal Drive sustainable growth in value Our strategy Converged services for UK Consumers and Enterprise Deliver Digital Global Services Transform our differentiated Invest in integrated a for MNCs operating model customer network leadership experiences Unmatched UK-wide b fixed access for all CPs Renew our capabilities and culture Our values Personal Simple Brilliant a Multinational customers.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion our purpose remains to use the power of 3.
Transform our communications to make a better world.
This drives everything that we do.
operating model our vision is leadership in converged connectivity Were creating a more lean and agile organisation, with a and services, delivered brilliantly in the UK and simplified operating model, and more straightforward decision-making.
This highlights our commitment to convergence as a growing category The steps were taking to achieve this include: of products and service.
simplifying our operating model by creating four customerfacing units focused on Consumer, Enterprise, multinational our goal is to drive sustainable growth in value.
This corporations through Global Services and fixed access networks through Openreach reflects our commitment to balance top and bottomhaving fewer, bigger, more accountable leadership roles line growth and to create value from our investment and simplifying and delayering our management structures in our integrated network and differentiated products accelerating the delivery of Digital GS, introducing new and services.
digital products with a greater focus on our top global customers reducing inefficiencies from being housed in numerous sites We will deliver these through three strategic priorities: across the UK to focus on around 30 modern, fit-for-purpose sites to create a more collaborative, open and customerfocused working culture 1.
Deliver differentiated move from buying to strategic sourcing, consolidating our spend and standardising our products make better use of digitalisation to improve customercustomer experiences experience and reduce costs to serve.
We will further differentiate our propositions, to retain and expand value.
Well do this by creating innovative These strategic priorities will be tailored to the different needs new propositions, improving value for money, offering better of our key customers in each of our customer-facing units: service, and making it easier to do business with us.
Weve made for UK consumer and enterprise, our focus will be on progress with customer experience in recent years, but theres accelerating the development of converged services much more to do.
in global Services, our focus will be on evolving towards a more digital proposition and operating model openreach will focus on delivering unmatched UK-wide 2.
Invest in integrated fixed access to all CPs.
outcomes from our transformation network leadership As a result of our transformation well be more efficient, productive, focused, and better able to deliver excellent In UK fixed, well drive take-up of our superfast network and experiences to our customers.
There should be a substantial accelerate our investments in ultrafast through fibre to the premises positive impact on our financial performance, albeit offset in the to 3m homes by 2020 and through Gfast.
short term by recent regulatory outcomes: Over three years were targeting improvements in our customer experience metrics, In UK mobile, well expand our leadership in 4G coverage and revenue generating units per customer, converged product capacity, and we intend to lead the market to 5G too.
penetration and digital interaction with our customers.
Well deliver a three-year reduction of around 13,000 mainly back Ultimately our aim is to build a single, integrated all-IP fibre office and middle management roles, partially offset by new hires network.
Our investment will allow us to progressively close to support customer service and network deployment.
We expect down legacy products such as the public switched telephone the programme to cost 800m and have a two-year payback.
network, lead the market in advanced digital products, improve customer experience, and reduce our operating costs.
Ultimately, we will create a fit-for-future organisation to drive sustainable growth in value for all our stakeholders as the leader in convergent connectivity and service in the UK and for multinational corporations.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 11
