Overview British Telecommunications plc the group or the company is the principal operating subsidiary of BT Group plc.
Were a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the group while the Executive Committee of BT Group plc is our key management committee.
It monitors the groups financial, operational and customer service performance and has cross-business oversight of BTs customer-facing units.
It also reviews the groups key risks and considers potential threats and opportunities facing the business.
British Telecommunications plc leverages the governance structure and processes of BT Group plc, including: BT Group plc Board Governance Committee Executive Committee Investment Committee Audit & Risk Committee Key management personnel comprise executive and non-executive directors of the BT Group plc Executive Committee, as well as members of the BT plc Board.
Our strategy Our strategy in the year had three Looking ahead, were evolving our pillars: deliver great customer strategy to build on our strengths experience, invest for growth and and allow us to respond to market transform our costs.
You can find more detail on page 10 They work together: the better our customers experience, the more we sell and the less time and money we spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the more we can invest in improving our customers experience and in products and services that will create growth.
Pages 3 to 7 describe our performance against the strategy.
The graphic below shows the main elements of our strategy in the year.
Youll find more details on our purpose and goal, in the context of our business model, on page 12. our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world our goal Growth to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Broaden and deepen our customer relationships our strategy Deliver great Invest for Transform customer experience growth our costs Focus on Differentiated Market Best network in Fully converged multinational content, services leadership in all the UK service provider companies and applications UK segments globally A healthy organisation Best place to work 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion Our strategy - how we performed deliver a consistent and reliable service On average we answered calls from BT Consumer customers in 41 Delivering great customer seconds, a minute quicker than last year.
EE won the What Mobile award for Best Customer Support for the third year running.
experience We now have more than 600 EE shops including five new Customer experience remains central to our strategy showcase stores offering face-to-face chats with advisers and and long-term growth whether thats improving highlighting the best of our network and technology partners.
our service levels, providing a more reliable network Our customers are using our digital channels more, with online chat up 20% this year and more than 2m downloads of the My BT app.
Were making good Openreach achieved all 60 of Ofcoms copper Minimum Service progress but we know there is still much more to do.
Ethernet performance keeps improving with delivery times cut by We believe that continuously improving customer experience drives growth.
Thats why progress on customer experience is central to a third since last year.
We have two main measures of Were continuing our transparent approach to performance by customer experience: customer perception based on Net Promoter publishing quarterly updates on service levels via bt.
com and Score and doing things Right First Time.
how we did in the year great customer experience from our network Weve built on earlier progress and have delivered seven quarters Weve hired almost 2,400 more engineers into Openreach.
Weve of continuous growth in customer perception.
This year we saw an also improved our resource planning so that we meet network repair 8.3point improvement on last years results.
targets more than 80% of the time.
Weve continued to weatherproof our networks leading to 3.7% Right First Time performance has improved by 4.3%, helped by fewer network faults this year.
This means our network has had BT Consumer customers are now getting faster broadband speeds fewer faults and weve delivered high levels of service despite some with average download speeds improving by 20% to 43Mbps.
Products that fit our customers lives Everyone in BT has a role to play in delivering these results and every BT Consumer launched ultrafast products at 152Mbps and CFU has improved its customer perception and Right First Time 314Mbps with minimum speed guarantees.
EE launched a new 4G antenna service that brings superfast broadband speeds to rural areas where fixed broadband is slow or Weve also seen a drop in complaints made to Ofcom over the last not available.
EE saw complaints fall to their lowest level while complaints about BT Consumer broadband have fallen by 18%.
A year after the launch of our BT Call Protect service weve protected 2.5m customers by diverting more than 90m nuisance calls.
What difference did our customers see?
And weve launched a new BT Business app for business customers Our customers tell us they expect a reliable service, great networks who want to interact with us digitally.
and products that fit their digital, mobile and always-on lives.
Weve made progress in all of these areas: British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 3 Our strategy - How we performed continued Investing for growth Weve been putting money and resources into five strategic areas.
Together, they underpin our strategy and our operational and financial performance, which in turn contribute to our KPIs on page 6.
With good progress on the integration of EE within the group and with a fast-paced digitisation of the UK economy, weve placed a particular focus this year on enabling convergence and on infrastructure leadership as key drivers of future growth.
Differentiated Best network content, services in the UK and applications 27.5m BT TV BT Sport premises Whole Home Wi-Fi passed with fibre p49-50 p76 Best network Best network in the UK in the UK 1.5m 90% premises 4G geographic passed with coverage ultrafast p76 p57 Fully converged market leadership market leadership service provider in all UK segments in all UK segments BT EE 36% 28% cross-selling Share of retail Share of broadband mobile market by subscriber p48 p55 Focus on multinational market leadership companies globally in all UK segments Around 30m 180 consumer and 1m Countries business customer billing relationships p64 p10 4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STRATegic RepoRT goveRnAnce FinAnciAl STATemenTS AddiTionAl inFoRmATion looking ahead We will continue to deliver against our EE integration and first phase Transforming our costs restructuring commitments.
our approach Rigorous analysis, leadership and strong governance Were also launching new cost transformation initiatives within each help us stay focused on both transforming costs and business unit, as well as some larger cross-business programmes.
The combination of new and existing initiatives will ensure we We benchmark the costs of doing business against other companies deliver against our new strategic target of 1.5bn gross cost reduction over the next three years.
inside and outside our sector to see where we can do even better.
Most improvement initiatives are owned and run within individual business units.
Our largest programmes span multiple business units or drive complex changes in a single business unit and often need central co-ordination.
how we did in the year This year weve increased the cumulative EE integration savings to 290m and were on track to deliver on our 400m commitment by the end of 2019 20.
The first phase of our restructuring activities has produced 180m of savings against our commitment to deliver 300m over two years.
Key achievements this year included: creating more synergies from integrating BT and EE.
Weve done this by combining functions, making good use of our increased purchasing power, and completing accommodation moves to bring teams together and save money from closing unneeded buildings establishing a new unit, Customer and Enterprise Transformation, within the Strategy and Transformation team.
The new unit helps us make investments and take decisions that better support our customer experience and productivity priorities becoming even more efficient by creating a Central Business Services unit which brings together customer contact management services, contract delivery services, revenue assurance and billing.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 5
