The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion mobile network properties We are investing in 4G geographic coverage and capability, We have around 7,000 properties in the UK and consolidating the EE networks position as the biggest and fastest in 1,700 across the rest of the world.
We aim to expand 4G to reach 95% of the UKs geography by the end of 2020.
We lease most of our UK properties from Telereal Trillium, part of the William Pears group.
We signed a sale and leaseback arrangement Wi-fi with them in 2001.
The majority 88% of our UK properties are We run one of the worlds biggest wi-fi networks, with around operational sites housing fixed and mobile telecoms and broadband 5.9m hotspots.
The rest are retail outlets, offices, contact centres, depots and data centres.
We also have the BT Sport TV studios in London.
progress this year This year weve: In the UK, weve rationalised and disposed of office, depot and data achieved 99.999% availability in our core network for broadband centre space in Croydon, Harrogate, Oxford and Wolverhampton.
customers deployed Ethernet and optical nodes into 38 data centres belonging Outside the UK, weve consolidated key office and operational to other companies to help grow business connectivity services.
locations in New York, Cincinnati, So Paulo, Frankfurt and Munich.
upgraded 935 exchanges and migrated more than 309,000 a customers to faster broadband services that are cheaper and more BT property portfolio UK energy efficient for us to run launched the BT Agile Connect service 6,111 Operational sites reached more than 90% of the UKs geography with our 4G 22 Data centres network, giving many rural and remote areas access to 4G built 323 new sites on the Emergency Service Network ESN 258 Oces and depots installed 138 InLinkUK units, providing users with free wi-fi at up 553 Retail outlets to 1Gbps, free UK phone calls, rapid mobile device charging and touchscreen access to local digital services.
Service platforms We run a number of service platforms that combine our network and IT resources.
They underpin many of our products.
Our five core service platforms are voice and mobile, broadband and internet access, TV, Ethernet and managed data, and emerging services.
Our TV platform supports a growing number of customers.
Our voice a excludes leased cell sites, concessions in other retailers stores and franchisee-owned leases.
and mobile platform supports EE, BT Mobile and Plusnet Mobile: it also underpins the Emergency Services Network ESN.
Research and development Commercial success increasingly depends on progress this year This year weve: innovation thats why we invest in R&D.
The result shown the Ashes live from Australia with enhanced digital is an enviable track record of scientific breakthroughs, experience, so BT Sport customers watching online or via the app engineering successes and commercial progress.
can skip straight to key moments carried over one billion minutes a month on our BT Conferencing A proud history of innovation platform.
In 1837, Sir William Fothergill Cooke and Sir Charles Wheatstone filed a patent for the worlds first practical electric telegraph.
From iT systems platforms this they founded The Electric Telegraph Company.
This business Our IT systems let us manage processes, handle customer eventually grew into BT.
information and deliver products and services.
Theyre critical to serving customers and running our business.
ingenuity transforms the world Our innovation has continued to transform communications since Weve completed the first phase of our EE integration programme.
Cooke and Wheatstones electric telegraph.
Often that impact has This involved moving EE people to BT systems so all our people could been wider than just communications.
Colossus was the worlds first benefit from a single, consistent set of applications.
It was created by GPO engineer Tommy Flowers in 1943, and heralded the start of the computer age.
progress this year In 1984, we deployed the worlds first commercial 140Mbps singleWere simplifying the different technologies we use.
This year weve: mode optical fibre link.
This technology is now the backbone of communications, carrying huge volumes of internet traffic around brought together BT and EE datacentre and core IT applications the globe.
We made the worlds first live data call over GPRS a management mobile technology in 1999.
Less than 20 years later, mobile data deployed robotic process automation, using software robots to carry has transformed the way people live.
out automated tasks, including order entry and order management, to cut costs and improve our back-office processes.
You can read more about our innovation at btplc.
com innovation innovation British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 17 Our resources and culture continued We showcased our innovation at two major events this year.
Our researchers are investigating the application of artificial Innovation 2017 was held at Adastral Park, our global R&D intelligence and machine learning techniques to the operation of headquarters in Suffolk, UK.
It was attended by 625 customers 5G networks.
and influencers, including government, investors, journalists and analysts.
New Scientist Live hosted 30,000 visitors over four days.
Were also exploring how we can use a technique from the mobile We sponsored its technology zone.
world called beamforming to improve our copper lines performance.
It exploits the interference or crosstalk between This year we invested around 510m 2016 17: around 520m in copper cable pairs to boost the speed achievable on a line.
Over the last decade weve been one of the largest investors in a R&D both in the UK, and globally in the telecoms sector.
Awards for our research and development Were proud that our R&D is recognised outside BT.
Here are some Our research keeps producing new inventions.
In 2017 18 we filed of the awards weve won this year.
patent applications for 97 inventions 2016 17: 102, and as of UK IT Awards: Best IoT Internet of Things Project 31March 2018 had a worldwide portfolio of more than 5,000 TM Forum 2017: Excellence Award for Smart City Innovator of the patents and applications.
Year TM Forum 2017: Outstanding Achievement Award The Engineer magazine: Collaborate to Innovate Awards 2017 97 patent applications filed in 2017 18 5,000 patents and applications in our worldwide portfolio open innovation No-one has a monopoly on good ideas.
Thats why we work with partners, universities and customers from around the world.
There are eight BT global development centres.
Our biggest is the innovation campus Adastral Park.
Around 3,600 people work there and we share it with more than 90 other high-tech companies.
We have extensive, long-standing, joint-research programmes with Cambridge University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology USA, Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and more than 30 other universities globally.
Weve used ideas inspired by our collaboration with MIT or Artificial Intelligence AI and machine learning to create algorithms that give us a deeper understanding of our access network.
This year we launched a five-year research collaboration with Huawei and the University of Cambridge.
It will focus on photonics, digital and access network infrastructure and media technologies, alongside work aimed at boosting the impact of communications technologies in society.
Weve opened the BT Ireland Innovation Centre with Ulster University in Belfast.
It will work alongside the Belfast Global Development Centre and BT Labs at Adastral Park in Suffolk on projects including Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and data analytics for customer experience and cybersecurity.
Repurposed innovation We like to repurpose innovations from other industries and apply them to our business.
This year we flew a drone across a river in a Welsh valley to deliver a fibre.
Were looking into new ways to roll out fibre without so much digging.
These include new directional drilling techniques and autonomous robots that propel themselves through the ground like worms.
a Comparison based on total R&D spend 2007 8 to 2016 17.
Source: EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard, http: iri.
html 18 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Brand and reputation The BT brand stretches across consumer, We own three strong retail brands: business and public sector markets within the BT, EE and Plusnet.
Between UK and across multinational business markets them, they cover UK and global in 180 countries.
markets for consumers, businesses This year, we unveiled Ultrafast Fibre, the first and only and the public sector.
Weve fibre broadband with a 100Mbps speed guarantee, and positioned these three brands to we were host broadcaster of the UEFA Champions League Final in Cardiff.
maximise their customer reach and minimise overlap.
This multi-brand In the UK business market, we have the highest awareness approach makes us more agile in of any telecoms, networks and IT services brand.
Strong our markets and broadens our business wins included network services for Severn Trent Water and mobility services for FirstGroup Plc.
We also own the Openreach brand, with which we th BT was recognised as a leader for the 14 consecutive serve communication providers.
time in Gartners Magic Quadrant for Network Service a Providers, Global.
Lots of things affect our brands and reputation.
But peoples direct interactions And BT was named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape with us play a big part.
Thats why were for Worldwide Managed Security Services 2017 Vendor b committed to optimising every aspect of Assessment.
customer experience: from our products to our service experience to our communication.
EE is the UKs biggest mobile network For more on how were improving customer operator, positioned at the cutting edge of experience, see page 3 and our customertechnology.
With around 600 retail stores across the UK, we are also first for spontaneous brand awareness, despite being the youngest major UK mobile brand by almost a decade.
EEs mobile network has been independently recognised as the best overall network by RootMetrics and in 2017, it was the only network in the UK able to offer mobile connectivity for the new Apple Watch.
Plusnet offers UK customers a great value range of broadband and mobile services.
In 2018, Plusnets outstanding customer service continued to be acknowledged with industry awards, including uSwitchs Best Customer Service for the fifth consecutive year.
At the same awards, we also won Best Value for Money, Best Home Broadband and despite only launching mobile in 2016 Best Value Mobile SIM-only.
Openreach page 73 builds and maintains Britains digital communications network.
More than 25,000 engineers take care of 165 million kilometres of network, working in every community, every day.
This year, Openreach launched a new brand identity, reflecting commitments made as part of the DCR settlement page 29.
The programme to change all assets has already begun, including our buildings, vans and uniforms.
a Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
b MarketScape for Global Managed Security Services Vendor Assessment 2017, Martha Vazquez, 1 December 2017.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 19 Our resources and culture continued equipping our leaders to have more regular open and honest our culture conversations so they make better-informed decisions.
We want our culture to reflect our values of personal, simple and brilliant, for our people and our customers.
The BT Way All of this will come together in The BT Way a three-part guide our values to reflect how we work together as a company, how we treat each other and how we expect everyone to behave.
It will include: how were organised and how we deliver for our customers Personal what we expect from our people through our updated ethical code We come across as human and show our customers whats important to us and how we do things as expressed through that we understand and care.
Our efforts are having a positive impact In Januarys BT-wide Your Say employee engagement survey, we did better than previous years on all our values scores: Simple Were straightforward, easy to deal with, and make complex things clear.
4% 3% 3% improvement improvement in improvement in our Personal our Simple score in our Brilliant score 75% 62% score 70% Brilliant We lead the way in creating new things, and whatever we do, we do it really well.
Were proudly personal, simple and brilliant in many ways already.
That includes our history of pioneering innovation, a strong volunteering ethos, diverse career development for our people, and our ability to disrupt the market and reinvent ourselves when we need to as through ventures like BT Sport, the 2012 Olympics and the acquisition of EE.
embedding our values further Theres more to do to be personal, simple and brilliant every day.
So weve launched a multi-year transformation programme to simplify our organisation, improve business performance, and reform our culture and capabilities.
This year weve begun simplifying how we do things by helping our people take personal ownership to resolve their customers issues and introducing new ways to make better and faster decisions.
That means making sure accountabilities are clear and decisions are made at the right level of the organisation, as close to customers as possible.
Weve encouraged more diverse thinking in the business by attracting more diverse talent.
This year we doubled our graduate intake and quadrupled our apprentice intake across the group.
Were offering more career development opportunities for our people, as well as inspiring fresh perspectives.
Were also building new programmes and resources to help our people be brilliant, clarifying the key skills and behaviours they need now and in the future including Management Essentials, Business Essentials and Connected Leaders see page 23.
Finally, weve been helping our people do the right thing by: regularly reaffirming our expectation that everyone acts with integrity through our ethical code creating a safe environment where everyone can speak up about risks and concerns 20 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion In our due diligence checks we look for whether: Respecting human rights our product service could be used for defence, military, law Were committed to respecting human rights in our enforcement, security or cybersecurity purposes own business and through our broader relationships.
the customer or end user is a government, government agency or state-owned company We believe that everyone is entitled to basic rights and freedoms, the service is being provided in an extreme or high-risk country whoever they are and wherever they live.
These are established in based on external measures.
The International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at If these criteria are met we look into things in more detail which Work.
might include contractual protections or internal monitoring arrangements.
Weve been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since it was established in 2000 this is the worlds largest corporate modern slavery sustainability initiative.
We use the UN Guiding Principles on In June 2017 we co-sponsored a residential summit of international Business and Human Rights UN Guiding Principles to guide our experts which explored the role of technology in tackling modern approach.
Building on the findings were establishing an industry collaboration to address the challenges and opportunities for How could we impact human rights?
technology to help end modern slavery.
As a global company we could impact human rights either directly, or indirectly through our business relationships.
Our biggest impact b We published our second Modern Slavery Act statement in August could be on customers rights to privacy and free expression.
It explained our progress and the steps weve taken to prevent modern slavery in our business and supply chain.
Were also We must comply with lawful government requests for information reviewing our policies, processes and procedures with the help of about how people use our services and the content of their external experts.
communications, but this could impact our customers rights to privacy.
Weve continued to support the UK Modern Slavery Helpline partnering with anti-slavery charity Unseen for more details see Free expression includes the right to access information.
As a our Delivering Our Purpose Report.
communications company, we need to consider situations where we might need to limit peoples access to content.
We could also affect: In October 2017 Gavin Patterson joined the first Business Against our peoples rights if our employment standards fall short: workers c Slavery Forum hosted by the Home Office.
The forum is a way in our supply chain through our buying practices: and communities for companies to collaborate and drive change on identifying and where we operate, if we dont stick to environmental standards.
How do we manage human rights in BT?
Sport and human rights Our ethical code sets out the standards we expect of our people and Big sporting events have a hugely positive social impact.
But they those who work on our behalf, including how they respect human can also carry human rights risks like labour rights violations and rights.
We have a team dedicated to human rights integration and a Throughout the year weve continued working with the participants Human Rights Steering Group chaired by a member of our Executive in the Mega-Sporting Events Platform for Human Rights.
This year it considered a range of issues, including: input from other broadcasters, weve created a tool to help identify contracts were monitoring for human rights issues human rights risks when broadcasting.
We presented it at the our second Modern Slavery Act statement and programme d second Sporting Chance Forum in November 2017.
The team at BT our second privacy and free expression report Sport team are trialling the tool in their compliance processes.
the impact on human rights when broadcasting large sporting events.
priorities for the year ahead Well launch our overarching human rights policy and embed it in What weve been doing this year our business having reviewed our existing metrics to support the Weve been pulling together our existing policies on human rights new policy.
issues into one overarching policy.
As part of that weve reviewed our operations in key countries outside the UK with the help of a Well be refreshing our privacy and free expression report with data leading law firm.
on information requests in countries outside the UK.
Well also cover what we do on cybersecurity.
due diligence In April 2017 we launched our enhanced customer due diligence process.
To embed the key principles with our sales teams we held calls and face-to-face training.
com Thegroup Ourcompany Ourvalues ModernSlaveryAct c gov.
org focus-areas mega-sporting-events  British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 21
