STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION Generating profitable growth in our core markets 7.1% 26 No.
1 revenue generated from WiseHead Productions brands are now Robinsons Fruit Creations is the no.
1 Britvic innovation in 2018. available across 26 cities globally.
soft drinks launch in two years.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our approach to innovation Our investment in innovation is paying dividends.
Britvic brand innovation delivered 7.1% of total revenue in 2018 a record contribution.
Our investment in innovation is focused on being margin accretive and realising category and channel growth opportunities, in three key areas: 1.
Creating a healthier portfolio, moving ahead of the market on reformulation and ensuring new products are predominantly low no sugar.
Utilising the strength of our core brands into new occasions through premiumisation and different pack formats, as we have done with Robinsons with Fruit Creations, Fruit Cordials, Refreshd and Squashd.
Targeting emerging, fast-growing categories that offer long-term growth potential, such as the growing energy market, with our natural energy drink Purdeys, and premium adult socialising with brands such as London Essence Company.
Innovating to create A Healthier Everyday 2018 healthier Innovation highlights include: Robinsons Fruit Creations and Fruit Cordials launched in GB, generating 25m retail sales value.
Fruit Creations is the number one soft drinks launch in the last two years and Fruit Cordials is already the number three premium squash brand.
Aqua Libra launched in GB and Ireland in October 2017, a sparkling, natural fruit-avoured water that is The launch of Robinsons completely unsweetened.
Fruit Cordials marked the brands first entry into the In Ireland, we added a new lemon variant to our sugar free premium cordials sector, Club Zero range, plus two new Super Fruity variants to targeting adults looking our MiWadi 0% Sugar range which are sweetened only for more sophisticated, with fruit juice and stevia, and fortied with added premium soft drinks.
In Brazil we relaunched Natural Tea with two new sugar free avours, appealing to consumers looking for natural healthier beverages.
Capitalising on trends As well as placing health at the heart of our innovation strategy, were focusing on consumer demand for more enjoyable, convenient and more premium experiences.
We are capitalising on the trend for premium cocktails and avoured hot drinks with the relaunch of our outof-home Syrups and Pures range under the Mathieu Teisseire brand.
We now have nine products in the London Essence Co. Weve dedicated our innovation pipeline to range which is dedicated to growing our participation our consumers: their tastes, their lifestyles, within the super-premium mixers and sodas category Were also growing our premium zero-proof alcoholtheir ambitions, their challenges, and their free range which includes Monte Rosso and Thomas & pursuit of enjoyable moments anytime, Evans, in line with the growing trend towards consumers anywhere.
By putting the consumer at the reducing alcohol consumption and seeking high heart of what we do, we are building a full quality alternatives.
We know that consumers are looking for convenience portfolio of drinks that are drunk by more whether at home or on the go.
Thats why we have people, on more occasions, more often.
broadened our Robinsons range to include Squashd, a low sugar option to avour water on the go, as well as Matt Barwell introducing Robinsons on draft in many foodservice Chief Marketing officer, Britvic Plc outlets and ready-to-drink Robinsons Refreshd.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED Realising global opportunities in kids, family and adult categories 1,600 1st No.
Brazil is the largest liquid Maguary is the no.
1 concentrates brand concentrates market in the world.
in Brazil by volume and value.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Britvic in Brazil Production sites Offices In 2015 and 2017, Britvic acquired Brazilian Distribution soft drinks companies EBBA and Bela Ischia respectively, giving Britvic access to the sixth largest soft drinks market and largest liquid concentrates market in the world.
The acquisitions established Britvic as a significant player in the Brazilian soft drinks market with a strong footprint in all key regions, including Rio fide Janeiro, Minas Gerais and So Paulo.
We now have distribution access to the three largest states by GDP in Brazil, with Rio fide Janeiro and Minas Gerais accounting for more than half of the total concentrates market in Brazil.
In 2018, we have continued to invest for the long term, against the continuing backdrop of macro uncertainty and a challenging consumer environment, albeit with some early signs of improvement towards the end of the year.
The Bela Ischia acquisition is now integrated and delivering synergies ahead of guidance, and it has enabled us to expand both market and channel coverage.
We continue to utilise our group expertise and roll out Fruit Shoot into new regions, and we have recently launched a new concentrate solution, Maguary Uno, to improve affordability and widen the consumer base of our brand portfolio, whilst also supporting our A Healthier Everyday ambitions as a low sugar option for consumers.
Despite a challenging macro environment, I am proud of what we have achieved this year.
The Bela Ischia acquisition is now integrated and our focus on the longer-term opportunity is being realised by leveraging our group capability and range.
Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto Chief Executive officer, Britvic Brazil Consumers love our new Natural Tea avours, which we launched alongside an attractive new pack design, and a new can format.
Puro Cocos recipe change and sales execution plan on shelf also proved popular this year.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED Step-change our business capability 240m 600 100% invested in our GB supply chain tonnes of primary plastic removed from our of electricity at our manufacturing sites capability over the past three years.
bottles through light-weighting in 2018. in GB sourced from renewables from October 2018.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Britvic supply chain team has worked tirelessly to transform our supply chain capability whilst maintaining business as usual.
In doing so, we are delivering a sustainable platform for growth, creating value for all our stakeholders.
Clive Hooper Chief Supply Chain officer, Britvic Plc Our investment programme Over the three years of the programme, Britvic will Our Norwich site will close in late 2019.
The proposal, have invested an additional 240m in its supply chain.
and subsequent decision, to close Norwich was not one The objectives have been to maximise capacity, we made lightly and we are grateful to our employees capability, exibility and efficiency across our who continue to deliver an outstanding performance in manufacturing sites and to improve our environmental difficult circumstances.
We remain on track to deliver a minimum 15% Upon completion of the business capability programme, adjusted EBITDA return by 2020. the GB production network will comprise of three sites Since we began this major investment project in 2016, located along the spine of the country in London, Rugby we have delivered the following: and Leeds.
As well as increasing efficiency and reducing road miles, the investment is also helping to accelerate Three new PET lines and three new can lines, our ability to respond to changing consumer trends with which are already delivering benets agility and pace by expanding our range of liquids, pack New on-site warehousing facilities completed in sizes and congurations.
Leeds & London Major groundworks at Rugby undertaken, The final completion of the programme will result in a transforming the site footprint whilst remaining significant increase in free cash ow in 2019 as capital fully operational spend falls back towards normal levels.
Environmental benets less power and packaging being used across the value chain.
The final phase of the project will be completed in 2019, and will include: Completion of three PET and one Aseptic line to be completed late 2019 A new automated warehouse at Rugby A new Combined Heat & Power plant in Rugby to deliver lower costs and environmental benets BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED Building trust and respect in our communities 16% 99% 94% reduction in average calories of our owned brands in GB of parents said they would per 250ml serve across are below or exempt from the recommend Fruit Shoot following our markets since 2017.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The health of our consumers matters to us Weve been bringing enjoyment to millions of everyday moments for over a century through our much-loved brands like Robinsons, Teisseire, MiWadi, Maguary, R. Whites and Tango, and we are committed to continuing to make a positive difference to the world Health has always sat at the heart of our around us helping to make it healthier, happier and business and I am proud to say that the more sustainable.
majority of our portfolio is no and low Health sits at the core of our business strategy and we sugar, offering consumers a wide range are committed to helping consumers make healthier of healthier drinks choices and enabling choices through making drinks that taste great and are better for you.
us to benefit from the accelerated consumer trend of switching away from Since 2013, weve taken a three-pronged approach to health focused on: higher sugar drinks into low and no sugar alternatives.
Reformulation without compromise on taste or quality Innovation: the majority of our innovation pipeline is geared towards low and no sugar drinks.
Matt Barwell Awareness: we are committed to educating and Chief Marketing Officer, Britvic Plc motivating consumers to make healthier choices.
In accordance with our Responsible Marketing Code, we do not advertise any products to under 12s and do not advertise high sugar products to under 16s, and we continue to lead all cola advertising with no sugar Pepsi MAX which we have done since 2005.
Soft Drinks Levies in GB and Ireland In 2018 both the UK and Irish governments followed the French governments example and introduced a Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL and Sugar Sweetened Drinks Tax SSDT respectively on drinks with more than 5g 100ml of added sugar.
Britvic was well-placed to navigate the introduction of the levies having led the industry on health for many years.
At the time the levy was introduced, 94% of our owned brands were below or exempt from the levy in GB.
This figure has now increased, with 99% of our owned brands now below or exempt from the levy in GB 90% in Ireland.
As we anticipated, the introduction of the levies and our transparent approach of differential pricing has accelerated the consumer trend of switching away from higher sugar drinks into low and no sugar alternatives.
This has benefited our broad portfolio of low and no sugar brands, with Pepsi MAX, Robinsons, 7UP Free, J2O and Tango all in revenue growth.
We remain confident in our approach to the levy and believe the changes in consumer trends offer us further opportunities for growth.
Looking ahead to 2020, we have set an ambitious target to reduce average calories per serve by 20% to 28 kcal per 250ml serve from 35.02kcal in 2013.
Find more Netmums seal of approval information about our health strategy on page 38.
This year Fruit Shoot, which contains no added sugar, was endorsed by Netmums, one of the largest parenting forums in the UK with more than a million subscribers.
The Netmums Recommended endorsement, which features on the Fruit Shoot website and on point of sale materials in store, follows nationwide product trials of Fruit Shoots core, Hydro and Juiced ranges with Netmums subscribers.
Following the trials, 94% of parents said they would recommend Fruit Shoot core, and 75% of parents who see the Netmums endorsement go on to buy the products.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 27
