STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Alignment to strategy key Build trust and respect in Generate profitable growth Continue to step-change Realise global opportunities our communities in our core markets our business capability in kids, family and adult categories FINANCIAL REVENUE Why do we measure this?
Performance Revenue growth measures our Revenue increased by 5.1%, including the 5.1% ability to increase price and or impact of the Bela Ischia acquisition, foreign increase the volume sold.
exchange movements and the impact of the SDIL in the UK and SSDT in Ireland.
Alignment to strategy Organic revenue, which excludes these impacts, increased by 2.7%.
ADJUSTED EBIT MARGIN Why do we measure this?
Performance Adjusted EBIT margin measures Margin was flat year on year including the 13.7% the underlying profitability of the impact of the Bela Ischia acquisition, foreign company, excluding any one-off costs.
Alignment to strategy Organic adjusted EBIT margin, which excludes these impacts, increased by 10bps.
ADJUSTED EPS Why do we measure this?
Performance Adjusted earnings per share measures Adjusted earnings per share increased 6.4% the profit per share of the company and 6.4% due to the growth of adjusted EBIT, is used by investors to compare the net of interest and corporation tax.
performance of a company against peers.
Alignment to strategy ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW Why do we measure this?
Performance Adjusted free cash flow measures the Adjusted free cash flow generated was 65m ability of the company to convert profits 65.0m, a 10.5m improvement on last year.
into cash to enable returns to shareholders As well as the impact of improved adjusted or future investment in the business.
EBIT and an improvement in working capital.
Alignment to strategy Refer to definition in glossary 28 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Build trust and respect NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT in our communities We measure non-financial performance in alignment with our strategic pillar of building trust and respect in our communities.
This table follows the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 sections 414C 7, 414CA and 414CB and is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
Most of our reporting on these topics is contained in our sustainable business review on pages 36-43 and risk management section on pages 30-34.
Cross-references to sections containing further information about risk management, policy outcomes, targets and progress in specic areas are provided.
A description of our business model can be found on pages 8-9.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS EMPLOYEES HUMAN RIGHTS Related policies which govern Related policies which govern Related policies which govern our approach our approach our approach Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Healthier Planet Policy Equality and Diversity Policy Equality and Diversity Policy Sustainable Packaging Policy Employee Community Fund Policy Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy Ethical Business Policy Safe Driving Policy Ethical Business Policy Family Leave Policy Work Experience and Young People Associated risks and KPIs Whistleblowing Policy Manager Guidance Principal risk: Whistleblowing Policy Sustainability and environment Associated risks and KPIs KPI: Associated risks and KPIs See page 33 Great Place to Work Trust Index Principal risk: KPI: Legal and regulatory See page 39 Manufacturing carbon intensity See page 34 ratio kg CO e tonnes product 2 2016: 72% KPI: See page 42 2017: 75% Percentage of direct suppliers linked on Sedex 2016: 30.02 2018: 73% See page 39 2017: 30.23 Location in Annual Report of further information 2018: 26.00 2018: 57% First year of reporting this scope Location in Annual Report and methodology of further information Location in Annual Report Healthier Communities of further information see pages 39-41 Healthier Planet see pages 42-43 Human rights see page 39 See also our Modern Slavery Act Statement at https: www.
com modernslavery SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY MATTERS ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Related policies which govern Related policies which govern our approach our approach Britvic has recently set up a compliance Code of Conduct Code of Conduct function responsible for overseeing the Britvic Quality and Food Safety Policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy compliance agenda, including working with Giving Back policy Ethical Business Policy policy owners to ensure that individual Social Media Policy Whistleblowing Policy policies form a coherent framework across Responsible Marketing Code the business.
Objectives of this function Associated risks and KPIs are to ensure that policies remain relevant, Associated risks and KPIs Principal risk: identifying and addressing new policy Principal risk: Legal and regulatory areas and advising on implementation and Health & obesity concerns See page 34 monitoring.
Each policy is assigned to a See page 31 Global Policy Owner who is responsible KPI: for ensuring that the policy is kept up Cases reported to the independent KPI: to date and is properly implemented.
whistleblowing hotline related to Average calories per 250ml Local policy owners are responsible in bribery or corruption different countries to ensure that policies 2016: 36.0kcal are amended in line with requirements of 2016: none 2017: 35.3kcal local regulation.
2017: none 2018: 29.8kcal 2018: none Location in Annual Report Location in Annual Report of further information of further information Human rights Healthier people see page 39 see page 38 Britvics 2018 Basis of Reporting is available on our website and outlines the scope and methodological principles for the collation of our key sustainability metrics.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 29
