Our customer-facing units BT Consumer Were the biggest UK provider of consumer fixed-line voice and broadband services.
Were also the secondlargest pay-TV sports broadcaster in the UK, a leading innovator in broadcasting technology and one of the UKs fastest growing mobile operators.
BT Consumer and Plusnet our value brand connect customers to Wholesale: Fixed network services information, entertainment, friends and family, at home and on the The UK consumer communications market is highly competitive.
December 2017, Ofcom found that UK prices for communications and TV services compared well to international benchmarks.
In We buy access to fixed-line and broadband infrastructure from 2017 the UK ranked third overall among six comparator countries Openreach, and we use EEs mobile network to provide mobile France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK and the US and second for prices phone services.
BT Consumer and Plusnet both provide home phone, broadband, TV Within the UK market, our three consumer brands mean were well and mobile services.
EE do too page 55. placed to compete with the likes of Sky, Virgin Media, TalkTalk and Vodafone.
BT consumer brands BT retail market share 50% 40% Home phone Home phone 30% Broadband Broadband 20% BT TV YouView TV on Plusnet 10% BT Sport BT Sport 0% a b c Home phone Retail broadband Pay-TV a Mobile Mobile Home phone includes BT Consumer and EE analogue and ISDN channels WLR, including customers in Northern Ireland and Plusnet.
b Retail broadband Consumer including Plusnet and Northern Ireland, EE, B&Ps, and BT Consumer sells products and services from BT and Plusnet.
broadband lines sold by Global Services.
c Subscriber numbers and market share data for home phone, retail TV refers to the total number of customers either with a BT Vision, YouView or EE TV box registered and enabled to receive video on demand including YouView from Plusnet.
broadband and pay-TV are reported at group level and can be found later in this section.
Figures for mobile also reported at group level are in the EE section on page 55. home phone According to Ofcom, the number of home phone lines in the UK was We sell a wide range of devices including phones, wi-fi extenders 26.7m in December 2017. and baby monitors via high street retailers and our website.
But people are increasingly using mobiles, voice over IP or instant Sustainability is important to us: we work closely with suppliers to messaging services instead of landlines.
The number of minutes of make our products and business as sustainable as possible, from the home phone calls made in 2017 fell by 19% year on year to 35bn.
first link in the supply chain through to our customers.
Broadband We also sell services to commercial premises like pubs and hotels, There were 26m fixed broadband home and SME connections so they can get BT Sport or BT Wi-fi.
in December 2017, an increase of 2.1% from the previous year.
Superfast speeds are available to 95% of the UK.
We employ around 9,000 full-time equivalent people.
Roughly 6,500 of these directly help customers in our contact centres.
Tv and content There are roughly 18m pay-TV subscriptions in the UK.
Subscription video on demand SVoD content providers like Netflix markets and customers and Amazon Prime are becoming increasingly popular.
They usually Our broadband copper and fibre products are available to more complement traditional pay-TV rather than replace it Ofcom found than 99% of UK premises: our home phone and mobile services are that 74% of SVoD users had pay-TV too.
Anyone with fast enough BT broadband can get BT TV.
mobile We describe the UK mobile market, including BTs overall position, in the EE section of this report which starts on page 55.
48 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 38% 36% 9% The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion BT TV is available exclusively to our broadband customers.
They can products and services watch via a choice of three YouView set-top boxes non-recording, One size rarely fits all.
Thats why we sell recording and 4K UHD.
home phone, broadband, TV and mobile TV content includes programmes for the whole family from all the to our customers in a variety of packages.
big Hollywood Studios: AMC a BT UK exclusive, Sky, BT Sport and Netflix.
We aim to offer a selection of the best pay content at attractive prices.
home phone Our range of home phone products and calling plans lets our customers pick the right service for them.
We offer unlimited calls, BT TV comes in three different packages and add-ons like discounted international calls or calls to mobiles.
Starter BT Sport Up to 80 Freeview channels, BT Sport channels, AMC and BoxNation Here are a few examples of BT Consumer home phone services: plus BT Store for renting or buying movies and shows.
Includes a non-recording set-top box and access to apps like BBC iPlayer, All 4, BT Basic discounted line rental and inclusive calls to people on ITV Hub and My5.
Were the only company to offer this service in the UK.
entertainment BT Call Protect a free service for customers which diverts Includes up to 99 channels, as well as a set-top box which can nuisance calls to a junk voicemail box.
Weve now diverted more record up to 300 hours of programmes, pause and rewind live TV, than 90m nuisance calls.
and access seven days worth of catch-up TV.
Includes BT TV app Discounts for standalone voice customers this year we agreed access.
with Ofcom to cut the price of line rental for BT home-phoneonly customers who dont have broadband with BT or anyone max else.
From 1 April 2018 this line rental is 11.99 a month.
More than 140 channels, including 21 in HD.
Also includes extra recording space on the set-top box, BT Kids TV and BT Sport in 4K Plusnet and EE also offer a home phone service with a variety of Ultra HD.
This year we launched an award-winning TV user interface to make Broadband it even easier for customers to find their favourite programmes.
We offer ADSL broadband, delivered over copper lines.
Our BT Theres also a companion BT TV app so they can watch shows when Infinity superfast broadband uses fibre to deliver higher speeds and theyre out and about.
Plusnet TV is available to Plusnets fibre customers.
It includes over Two examples of our broadband services are BT Broadband 70 Freeview channels, plus BT Sport and popular pay-TV channels.
Unlimited speeds up to 17Mbps and BT Unlimited Infinity 2 speeds up to 76Mbps.
In January 2018 we launched two new EE TV provides more than 70 Freeview channels, as well as pay-TV Ultrafast Fibre packages with speeds of up to 152Mbps and up to channels and access to a number of apps.
Both come with a speed guarantee of 100Mbps, backed by 20 compensation.
BT Sport The BT Sport channels are available on BT TV, the BT Sport App to To supercharge their home wi-fi, customers can buy Whole Home BT, Plusnet and EE customers, Sky and TalkTalk.
It uses an intelligent network of three wi-fi repeaters to customers can also access BT Sport.
Theres a discount on BT Sport extend connectivity to every corner of the home automatically for current BT broadband customers, and an even bigger discount if switching to the fastest, strongest and most reliable signal.
launched on the high street in December 2016 and by the second half of 2017 18, sales reached nearly 50% of the market by value, BT Sport 4K UHD was the UKs first Ultra HD TV channel.
It has four outperforming brands like Google and Netgear.
times the detail of HD and is available exclusively to BT TV Max customers with BT Infinity broadband.
Our broadband packages also include: BT Wi-fi free, unlimited wi-fi access at around 5.9m UK BT Sport is the exclusive live broadcaster of the UEFA Champions hotspots League and UEFA Europa League in the UK.
And it has the rights BT Cloud secure online and on-the-go access to data secured until the end of the 2020 21 season.
and photos BT Web Protect security tools to help keep customers In January we won Premier League rights for a further three years and their families safe online.
We also broadcast FA Cup, FA Womens Super League and Scottish Premiership games.
As well as football, We offer special support to vulnerable customers and work with BT Sport covers sports like Aviva Premiership Rugby, MotoGP, WTA industry groups like Internet Matters to promote internet safety.
tennis, Cricket Australia, UFC and boxing.
This year, we broadcast Plusnet broadband is sold three ways with three different download over 13,000 hours of live sport.
speeds unlimited with up to 17Mbps: fibre unlimited with up to 38Mbps: and unlimited fibre extra with up to 76Mbps.
Innovation is intrinsic to our strategy at BT Sport.
Our coverage of the 2017 UEFA Champions League final was the UKs first-ever live EE broadband offers three similar products.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 49 Our customer-facing units continued BT Consumer continued We also achieved a world first by covering the live match using High Customers opinion that BT is easy to deal with was four points Dynamic Range HDR technology in ultra-high definition with higher in Q4 2017 18 than it was a year earlier.
Right First Time Dolby Atmos sound.
improved by 1.1%, driven by a 7% reduction in Propensity to Contact.
And on YouTube and the BT Sport app we screened the match in 360-degree virtual reality VR for the first time.
Within the app Simpler organisation viewers could choose between a 360-degree produced programme Weve reorganised our teams around the different moments in or pick their own camera viewpoint.
customers relationships with us joining, early life and in-life support.
In January we added HD streams to the BT Sport app for all our sport customers too.
And the app and Ultra HD channel have both Thousands of agents now follow this new operating model.
Its won awards for innovation.
widening and deepening their knowledge and letting them own and solve issues.
For more complex stuff, weve introduced bespoke, BT mobile dedicated support which is helping thousands of customers a week.
BT Mobile is available SIM-only or with a service plan and choice This has been key to cutting Ofcom broadband complaints by 18%.
Our broadband customers get a 5 a month discount on mobile service plans.
Theres also BT Family SIM new diagnostics help detect and resolve faults which lets customers buy two or more SIM cards at a discount.
Weve introduced pre-emptive broadband diagnostics.
This now means we can often detect and fix faults automatically before a We launched Wi-Fi Calling in March 2018 so customers can text customer finds theres a problem and gets in touch.
or call over wi-fi when they cant get a mobile signal one of their biggest bugbears.
getting to customers quicker Through extra investment in people and systems, weve cut the Plusnet offers SIM-only mobile plans at different prices.
Plusnet average wait to speak to us on the phone from 103 seconds in Q4 broadband customers get mates rates packages with extra 2016 17 to 41 seconds in Q4 2017 18. mobile data.
Following our customers onto digital The number of customers using online chat has grown.
It now accounts for around a quarter of interactions.
performance in the year strategic Customer experience is still our top priority investing for growth 2 This year we kept our focus on sustainable long-term growth, delivering great customer experience 1 making several investments for the future.
The table below summarises our progress on the priorities we set out last year.
This year weve continued to make important investments in customer care.
Review of last years priorities What we said What we did Customer care is getting better.
The Institute of Customer Service ranked BT within the top 15 most improved organisations this year.
Keeping the household connected This is because of the money were spending on improving our Move current 61% of our broadband customer base customers from is now on fibre compared with 53% systems.
They are now being used by 6,000 advisers and are copper to fibre improving the number of faults we fix and speeding up the time it lastyear.
broadband and grow takes to do it.
Our fibre customer base has grown by our base through nearly 800,000 to 5.7m.
Launch ultrafast We launched two new Ultrafast Fibre broadband using packages with speeds of up to 152Mbps Gfast and, where and 314Mbps.
Keep promoting BT Weve significantly grown our mobile Mobile to give existing base.
customers more for their money.
We launched wi-fi calling in March 2018.
50 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion What we said What we did enhance sport and content Provide exclusive Our Ashes cricket coverage accounted sport giving potential for 8% of BT Sport viewing for the year.
customers a brilliant We added UK and Irish international reason to choose BT.
hockey and broadcast our first live boxing match with two World Championship fights.
We broadcast the UEFA Champions League Final in 4K UHD and with 360 degree VR experience.
On the BT Sport app we introduced free HD streams for all our customers.
Improve our We launched three new TV channels customers TV and expanded our boxset range with viewing experience.
We launched a BT TV App for customers to watch their favourite shows on the go and record programmes remotely.
We announced a deal to offer all of Sky Sports, Sky Cinema and Skys most popular entertainment channels through Now TV from 2019.
Transform customer experience Finish deploying We rolled out new systems and a simpler our new frontline way of working to all our contact centre systems and operating advisers.
structure to simplify We created a dedicated case the way we work.
management function for complex problems.
Make further Wait times have dropped by more than investments to cut the aminute to 41 seconds in Q4 2017 18. time it takes to get through to a contact centre agent.
Transforming our costs 3 Costs went up 3% this year.
This reflects our ongoing investment in improving overall customer experience, bringing fibre broadband to more customers and contractual sports rights increases.
To partly offset this, we cut costs by: finding economies of scale in our network infrastructure negotiating improved contract terms with key broadband hub suppliers improving customer care processes to cut the number of engineer visits.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 51 Our customer-facing units continued BT Consumer continued performance in the year operating We won quite a few awards for our products and services this year.
The missing manual Broadcasting convention home Wi-Fi BT Whole home Wi-Fi UeFA champions BT Whole home Wi-Fi Best Buy Wi-Fi League final Best Mesh Extenders SVG Europe Award Wi-fi Routers for Outstanding Best Value Live Event mother & Baby uSwitch Which?
BT Audio Baby BT Broadband BT Smart hub monitor 450 Most Popular Best Buy Gold Award Broadband Wireless Provider Routers T3 gadget Awards 2017 moneywise home Finances Awards 2017 BT Tv BT Tv Best TV Platform Best value for Money 52 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Plusnet also won several awards: uSwitch uSwitch uSwitch plusnet Broadband plusnet plusnet mobile Best Value Best Provider Best Value Broadband Customer Service Sim Only Provider uSwitch Broadband genie Broadband genie plusnet Broadband plusnet Broadband plusnet Broadband Broadband Best Best Provider Broadband Customer of the Year Provider Care Broadband genie Broadband genie Broadband genie plusnet Broadband plusnet Broadband plusnet Broadband Most Most Most Reliable Trustworthy Recommended Provider Provider Provider moneywise home Finances TmT global Awards 2017 excellence Awards plusnet Broadband plusnet Broadband Best value Best Internet Service for Money Provider UK The section below gives figures for home phone, broadband and TV Around 61% of our home broadband customers have fibre across the group.
broadband, getting faster speeds than ever before.
Mobile performance also reported group-wide is in the EE Tv section on page 55.
We have 1.7m TV customers across BT, Plusnet and EE.
Around 30,000 commercial premises have BT Sport.
home phone As of 31 March 2018, BT Group had a combined total of 10.1m BT Sport viewing figures across all platforms were up 19% in Q4 home phone customers, at 31 December 2017 we had 38% 2017 18.
Weve seen a 31% increase in the proportion of our BT market share.
Sport base engaging with the app.
Broadband We held our position as the UKs largest provider of home broadband services with 9.3m customers and 36% market share.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 53 Our customer-facing units continued BT Consumer continued Performance in the year financial our top priorities for 2018 19 In 2017 18, our revenue went up by Launch new products and establish convergence 3%, with particularly strong growth in Launch BT Plus, bringing together the best of broadband and mobile, broadband, TV and sport.
EBITDA mobile for the whole family.
grew 1%, because of revenue growth BT Plus will offer the best speeds with Ultrafast broadband and the best usage allowances.
being partly offset by extra investment in Give our customers access to the best TV content through customer experience.
2018 2017 2016 Customer experience Year ended 31 march m m m 100% of calls answered in the UK for our BT Plus customers.
Revenue 5,066 4,934 4,608 Continue investing in our systems to offer personalised online Operating costs 4,043 3,922 3,553 interactions with us.
Increase our investment in pro-active repair.
EBITDA 1,023 1,012 1,055 Depreciation and amortisation 216 209 207 Improve the way we communicate Operating profit 807 803 848 with customers Capital expenditure 291 237 207 Refresh our advertising style to create a more personal connection with our customers.
Calls and lines revenue increased 2% 2016 17: up 4% as mobile Re-focus our priorities to sell more services to our existing growth more than offset lower revenue from home phones.
customers, rather than focus on attracting new customers.
Offer BT products in EE stores so customers can experience and Broadband and TV revenue increased 4% 2016 17: 13% reflecting both revenue and product growth in the year.
BT buy our products face to face.
Consumer 12-month ARPU increased by 5% to 41.7 driven by mobile and BT Sport, as well as an increase in revenue generating units per customer from 1.98 to 2.03.
Operating costs increased 3% as a result of extra investment in customer experience as we brought contact centre jobs back to the UK, a higher proportion of customers taking fibre broadband and sports rights costs specifically the Ashes and Premier League.
EBITDA increased 1% as revenue growth in mobile, broadband, TV and sport more than offset our increased investment in customer service, fibre broadband and content.
Capital expenditure also increased by 23%, which reflects our ongoing investment in improving our network.
54 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our customer-facing units EE Were the UKs largest mobile network operator.
We also offer fixed broadband and TV.
At BT we report mobile customer numbers for the whole group, The market is dealing with some existing and potential structural including those from other customer-facing units.
We have more changes: than 29m connections, 19.6m of which are 4G.
increased customer expectations as we become more dependent on mobile services In EE, new mobile customers all join the EE brand, but we still have a huge growth in mobile data use number of customers on old Orange and T-Mobile tariffs.
We acquire a continued slide in the prepaid market as customers move to and retain customers through our chain of around 600 shops, postpaid tariffs website and contact centres as well as through third parties like popularity of SIM-only tariffs smartphones are evolving more Dixons Carphone.
To improve customer experience, since the end of slowly so people are keeping their phones longer 2016 weve handled all EE service calls in the UK and Ireland.
regulatory pressure on the prices charged to customers and other telecoms companies.
We have 9,600 people, with 66% directly helping customers in shops and contact centres.
We were named best employer in the BT has a 28% share of the UK mobile market, measured by Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For 2018 awards, up subscribers.
Theres more detail on our consumer home phone and broadband Our mobile network has been independently recognised as the markets on page 48. fastest network by OpenSignal, and best overall network by RootMetrics for the ninth consecutive time in its report for the second half of 2017.
Were getting our 4G Emergency Services Network ESN ready for use by emergency services workers.
On 1 April 2018 the BT Consumer and EE customer-facing businesses were brought together into a new combined unit.
markets and customers With four mobile network operators and plenty of mobile virtual network operators MVNOs, the UK mobile market is competitive.
Of the UKs 84 m mobile connections, two-thirds are postpaid.
Our main competitors are O2, Vodafone, Three, Tesco Mobile, Virgin Media and Sky.
Competition for customers is boosted by third-party distributors.
These businesses sell mobile services on behalf of mobile operators, from high street shops and online.
Around 94% of adults in the UK use a mobile.
Over 75% of UK adults use a smartphone.
According to Ofcom, 66% of mobile connections are on postpaid tariffs.
And 58% of homes also have a tablet.
Smartphones are now the most widely-used device by UK adults for getting online.
Consequently, total mobile data use went up 44% in 2017.
By September 2017, total UK mobile call volumes were steady at around 38bn minutes a quarter.
Texts and multimedia messages were down 16% to an average of 20bn a quarter.
Mobile phone services generated 3.9bn in retail revenue in the quarter to September 2017, up 1% compared with last year.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 55 Our customer-facing units continued EE continued emergency Services network products and services In December 2015 we were awarded the network part of the We provide mobile services in the UK, Emergency Services Network ESN.
now bringing 4G to over 99% of the Our 4G network may enable lots of applications.
For instance: population, or 90% geographically.
We ambulance crews may be able to send vital data to a hospital to help staff prepare for a patients arrival also reach 99% of the population with a police officer may be able to record an arrest on a body-worn 3G and 2G.
We sell broadband, home camera and live-stream to nearby officers for support phone and a TV service too.
fire and rescue crews may be able to assess a burning building based on live helicopter camera footage and digital blueprints viewed on a tablet.
postpaid We put new customers, and those renewing their contracts, on Weve increased 4G coverage, including building more than 100 4G tariffs.
If that includes a phone, the contract is typically for 24 new mobile basestations in remote areas.
Our tariffs include a bundle of monthly voice, texts and data.
Prices vary with the size of the data bundle, the device type Weve enabled and successfully tested specific services, like push to and 4G speed.
The tariffs are split into two main groups: talk, ready for the contract.
essential packs for unlimited calls and texts plus tiered bundles of data over a 30-day period, at speeds of up to 60Mbps.
Ahead of the launch of the ESN weve been working closely with the 4gee max plans which combine the largest data bundles, people wholl actually use it every day.
More than 500 have visited inclusive access to the BT Sport App and roam like home calls, our Technology Operations Centre in Bristol.
We expect the first texts and data in more than 50 countries around the world.
We emergency services workers to start using the network later also offer an annual upgrade option on selected flagship phones.
in 2018. prepaid Prepaid customers buy a phone and then add a pay-as-you-go pack of 4G.
The packs are split into three groups: everything packs for unlimited texts and tiered bundles of calls and data over a 30-day period.
Talk and text packs for tiered bundles of calls and text use over 7 to 30-day periods.
data packs ranging from 100MB to 5GB over 7 to 30-day periods.
Some automatically rollover unused data to the next month, so customers get a second chance to use it.
We also have a loyalty programme where customers can get extra data, calls or texts added to their packs in return for staying with us and topping up.
devices We offer a wide range of 4G mobile phones, tablets, connected devices and mobile broadband devices from leading brands like Apple, Samsung and Google.
Or customers can use their own phone with a SIM-only plan.
Broadband and Tv We sell home phone, broadband including superfast fibre broadband and TV services.
To reward their loyalty, our postpaid customers get bigger data allowances if they also buy EE broadband.
EE TV comes with more than 70 free channels simultaneously on up to four devices, as well as access to pay-TV channels.
The EE TV settop has one terabyte of storage.
Customers can control it from their mobile phone or tablet via the EE TV app.
56 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion performance in the year strategic performance in the year operating Weve grown financially, improved We report mobile customer numbers for customer experience and extended our the whole of BT Group, including those mobile network while integrating with from other customer-facing units.
In last years report, we set out our top priorities for this year.
The table below explains what progress weve made.
delivering great customer experience 1 Review of last years priorities Were working hard to deliver the best customer experience in the What we said What we did UK.
While we continue to make strong progress, we know there will always be more we can do.
Maintain network Weve now extended 4G geographic leadership.
This year we focused on four areas: call centres weve made customer service more personal by EE is still ranked as the best UK mobile coaching staff to be more empathetic network by RootMetrics.
self-service were always improving My EE functionality, with a new dedicated top-up tab and personalised recommendations Carry on improving Our postpaid net promoter score is up shops weve launched our new Showcase stores, which give a customer service.
Weve cut complaints to more personal and immersive experience Ofcom by 25% for postpaid mobile and 54% for broadband.
network weve increased 4G geographic coverage to give customers 4G in more places.
Deliver the EE part of Weve been able to recognise revenues the ESN contract.
Were putting customers in the centre of our decisions.
The first users are due to start using the network later every interaction they have with us to feel personal for example were now using video-calling in our stores and call centres.
Thanks to these steps, Ofcom has scored us second lowest for At 31 March 2018 we had more than 29m connections.
Heres how complaints on postpaid mobile and broadband, following 25% and 54% improvements.
they break down: Customer base by type Our call centres are now ranked top for postpaid mobile and 000 broadband customer satisfaction, and our net promoter scores keep climbing, up 10 points for postpaid and 16 points for broadband.
2,729 M2M investing for growth 2 3,689 MVNO Weve built the UKs best mobile network.
And were still investing Prepay 5,545 to stay number one.
Our 4G geographic coverage is now at 90% and we have an Postpay 17,595 ambition to increase this to 95% by the end of December 2020.
Were also improving more than 1,000 sites in major cities, boosting of which 4G 19,590 their supported maximum speeds to over 400Mbps.
Were also 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 preparing to lead the way on 5G, the next generation of mobile network technology.
Our postpay customer base grew by 679,000 to 17.6m, supported by growth in all BT brands.
The number of prepay customers continued to fall in line with industry trends like people switching to postpay.
Transforming our costs 3 Our machine-to-machine customer base was up 290,000 to 2.7m, Were now two years into the cost transformation programme we due to success in the automotive sector.
started after we joined the BT family.
Our base of MVNO customers was steady at 3.7m.
We saved money this year by: improving interconnect, transit and roaming rates as part of larger group deals further improving customer self-service to cut the volume of calls into our contact centres continuing to reduce the number of people in our head office.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 57 Our customer-facing units continued EE continued our top priorities for 2018 19 Customer base movements 000 Maintain network leadership Keep extending 4G geographic coverage.
31,000 Get the ESN ready for use by emergency service workers.
30,800 Keep working with suppliers and partners to run live customer 30,600 trials to prepare for 5Gs commercial launch.
30,400 30,200 30,000 Carry on improving customer experience 29,800 Hold our top spot on call centre customer satisfaction.
29,600 Launch a new service to set-up customers new smartphones in 29,400 29,200 their homes.
29,000 Add more shops as we work towards our ambition of providing 95% of the population with access to an EE store within a 20-minute drive.
Form partnerships with third parties Well look to work with other companies to generate new revenue streams, by using our: Performance in the year financial shops, contact centres and billing platforms In 2017 18, our revenue went up by relationships with millions of mobile customers.
4%, with particularly strong postpaid growth.
a 2018 2017 2016 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 5,294 5,090 841 Operating costs 3,941 3,934 668 EBITDA 1,353 1,156 173 Depreciation and amortisation 776 780 146 Operating profit 577 376 27 Capital expenditure 628 616 96 a Includes EE results from acquisition on 29 January 2016.
Postpaid revenue grew by 6%, as customers paid more for bigger bundles of data, more for more pricing and we started to recognise ESN revenues.
Fixed broadband revenue was up 14%, reflecting our higher number of customers, and more customers wanting fibre broadband.
Our overall revenue growth was partially offset by an 11% drop in prepaid revenue as the number of customers fell by 20%.
Monthly mobile ARPUs for the final quarter of the year were 26.0 for postpaid customers, down 1%, prepaid ARPUs were 4.8, up 9%.
Operating costs were flat because to win and keep customers in the face of increased smartphone costs we had to spend more, but this was offset by overheads savings.
Our EBITDA grew by 17%, with strong postpaid performance compensating for higher smartphone costs.
This was because of our work on extending 4G geographic coverage to 90%.
58 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 As at 1 April 2017 30,036 Postpay 679 Prepay 1,376 M2M 290 MVNO 71 29,558 As at 31 March 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our customer-facing units Business and Public Sector We sell communications and IT services in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We have around 1.2m customers and lead the field in fixed-voice, networking and broadband.
Were passionate about helping all our customers succeed whether Public sector is a big part of what we do.
But it faces continuing theyre large Government departments, big household names, challenges.
public sector organisations, small businesses or start-ups.
Our 10,000 people work locally, regionally and nationally, serving those Larger systems integration contracts are still being disaggregated customers wherever they are in the UK.
and replaced by smaller contracts.
Devolution is increasingly shifting procurement decisions and spend to the regions.
There We have three trading units.
They offer customers fixed, mobile, is uncertainty over Brexit.
The public sector is under increasing networking and IT services over the biggest UK fixed and mobile pressure financial cutbacks, higher service expectations, communications network.
demographic shifts, and economic dynamics.
Fixed voice Trading unit customers The overall number of fixed voice seats in the market will keep UK businesses typically with up growing.
For some time, theres been a switch from traditional Small and Medium to 100 people, ranging from voice to IP Voice.
Market analysts think that by 2019 IP Voice Enterprises sole traders to more complex will dominate the UK business voice market in spending terms.
organisations like schools and Thats because it offers customers a combination of flexibility, cost colleges.
efficiency and new features like integration with collaboration tools.
UK businesses typically with Corporate The fixed voice market is fragmented.
Were the market leader 100-1,000 people.
competing with more than 950 resellers and fixed network UK businesses with more than operators, including companies such as Unicom, Azzurri, Colt Group, Public Sector and 1,000 people.
Daisy Group, Gamma, KCOM Group and O2.
Major Business Multinationals who do the majority mobility of business with BT in the UK.
Mobility and mobile device use keeps growing.
Customers use them Public sector central and local to cut costs, increase productivity and flexibility, and get richer work government, health, higher experiences.
Our customers employees are using mobile phones and Corporates and public sector in technologies to work together better, not just to connect.
is against a backdrop of increasing risks around security, privacy and Corporates, public sector and compliance.
wholesale customers in the Republic of Ireland.
Our main competitors are O2 and Vodafone.
Both offer fixed products as well as mobile and are increasingly selling converged services.
markets and customers Fibre and connectivity We have around 1.2m customers and Were the largest business broadband provider in the UK.
Broadband services continue to migrate to fibre to meet businesses growing serve over half of the FTSE 350. bandwidth needs for higher downstream and upstream speeds.
Third-party business applications are increasingly being offered Major customers include: alongside communications provider broadband services, typically retailers like Debenhams via an app store.
utilities like Severn Trent public sector organisations like Surrey Police Ethernet and dedicated internet access services are growing healthcare providers like Nuffield Health strongly, with businesses becoming increasingly reliant on sports companies like Williams Martini Racing connectivity.
Were the leading provider of fixed networking services construction companies like Anglian Home Improvements in the UK.
financial organisations like e-sure educational institutions like University Of Warwick.
networked iT services The IT services market is diverse.
It stretches from off-the-shelf We cover both the communications and IT Services markets.
Overall hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
were focused on four main product markets: Fixed voice: Mobility: Fibre and connectivity: and Networked IT services.
Some areas are growing fast like cloud services, hosting, infrastructure and security.
These all present attractive We think these markets will converge over the next few years as opportunities for us to grow our market share.
technology and customer needs change.
And as they do, well be able to grow our market share.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 59 Our customer-facing units continued Business and Public Sector continued Networking is moving from physical provision to software-based, We offer value-added services to complement our fibre and virtual provision.
And its expanding into wide area networking connectivity offerings.
These include: computing apps to get through technologies like Software Defined Networking SDN.
customers online and running and marketing their websites effectively: security and backup: and cloud software access via our We think SDN will grow quickly.
Customers see the benefits faster Business Apps Store to enable them to work effectively without service activation, simpler WAN management and more flexible needing to buy extra IT resource or hardware.
This growth will boost demand for connectivity but also for hybrid networks especially combined public and private networked iT services networks.
Our IT services team designs and delivers solutions, manages services and provides in-life support.
They specialise in four areas: As more businesses go virtual, networks will evolve.
For example, end-user computing WANs will need to become more flexible, manageable, scalable and Local Area Network LAN and wi-fi infrastructure cost effective.
security data centres and cloud.
Cybersecurity remains a key priority for companies: there were a lot of high profile cyber attacks in 2017.
Partnerships with brands like Cisco, Apple, HP and Microsoft help to support these services.
In May 2018 the General Data Protection Regulation comes into force.
Companies will have to stick to a strict set of data privacy and We resell computing, networking and software products on BT security measures.
Another growing priority for our customers is the Business Direct, our IT product website.
It offers 20,000 hardware Internet of Things.
and software products from the worlds leading IT vendors.
Competition is fragmented, with providers often focused on specific types of customer, industry or technology.
performance in the year strategic We continually invest in our people, products and services portfolio and digital capabilities.
This We offer a wide choice of voice, helps improve customer experience and connectivity and IT-related services.
provides a platform for us to grow.
The things we sell range from standalone products and converged propositions to managed services and customised solutions.
delivering great customer experience 1 Together these meet the needs of our customers, from small startups to large enterprises and public sector organisations.
We want our customer experience to lead the market.
Fixed voice Our fixed-voice services range from calls and lines to fully-managed This year our Net Promoter Score went up 12.1 points.
Thats eight office phone systems and contact centre solutions.
Our Right First Time RFT measure improved by more than 5%.
We are fixing faults an average Our portfolio spans traditional and IP Voice.
IP Voice services include of 16% quicker.
And on our Ethernet portfolio, weve cut the time it Cloud Unified Communications, BT Cloud Phone and BT Cloud Voice takes for our customers to get their orders by 14%.
which we can offer to the full spectrum of customers we serve.
mobility Weve continued to bring our contact centres back to the UK with We offer a range of mobile phones and tablets, a choice of voice 86% of our people now here.
The number of calls into our contact and data tariffs and mobile office solutions, provided over the UKs centres has fallen by 15% from last year.
This is because customers fastest 4G network.
When they do, were giving them more ways to do it.
And our complaints team won Team of The Year in BT One Phone is a converged proposition for businesses with a the UK Complaint Handling Awards 2018. mobile workforce.
It effectively creates an office switchboard in the This year, weve: cloud, then pushes those functions to a customers mobile phone.
launched a Business Service app, which more than 25,000 customers have downloaded Fibre and connectivity successfully completed more than 1,600 improvement actions Customers have lots of options for internet access.
They include BT for Major and Public Sector customers Business Broadband over copper connections : BT Business Infinity invested in our people, completing 28,000 hours of training over fibre-to-the-cabinet FTTC and  FTTP : across sales and service on having great conversations with and BTnet dedicated internet access.
customers launched the BT Smart Hub for broadband customers, with better Our networking solutions are perfect for customers connecting diagnostics to help us fix faults proactively and more quickly offices together or connecting to the internet over dedicated updated the BT OnePhone portal to make it easier for customers leased lines.
They buy products like Ethernet, IP Virtual Private to self-serve Network services, SIP trunking which transports voice calls over launched BTnet Express a simplified, fixed-pricing approach for IP networks, leased lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking solutions.
our market-leading dedicated internet access product.
60 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion performance in the year operating investing for growth 2 Our order intake of 3.4bn was up 1%.
We continue to futureproof our cloud, connectivity, mobile and Although we signed a large wholesale networked IT offerings.
This is underpinned by our investments in digital capabilities.
contract in Republic of Ireland this was offset by declining fixed voice revenue and This year weve launched: by us deciding to move away from lowBT Business Ultrafast broadband with download speeds of up to 314Mbs, upload speeds of up to 48Mbs, and a minimum speed margin equipment sales.
guarantee BT Guest Wi-Fi, to protect our customers broadband speeds and Business and public Sector 12-month rolling order intake provide extra security Year ended 31 March BT Sport as part of the Infinity Broadband bundle Business-grade end-point security in conjunction with Symantec m 4,500 Cloud Voice SIP-Trunking within our IP Voice portfolio.
This gives 4,000 customers the cost benefits of IP telephony through existing on- 3,500 premises equipment 3,000 SIP phones and SIP endpoints within the BT OnePhone portfolio 2,500 to expand its capabilities 2,000 new Mobile Sharer plans with extended international roaming 1,500 options and new mobile security management.
1,000 500 We have continued to invest more in our digital and online 0 capabilities.
This has helped us do more business online, made it Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 easier for customers to do business with us, and delivered a more 2017 2018 personalised experience.
Transforming our costs 3 Building on last years work integrating EE with Business and Public Sector, were still finding big cost savings through bringing customer service, sales and support closer together.
Weve combined the business elements of BT and EE finding overlaps in the structures and delivering the financial savings.
Weve also shared and adopted the best working practices of each organisation using this to improve customer service levels and overall NPS.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 61 Our customer-facing units continued Business and Public Sector continued In last years report, we set out our top priorities for this year.
The number of business lines we provide fell by 10% as customers Theres a summary of how we did in the table below.
continue to migrate to IP Voice.
This has been partly balanced by our base of IP Voice lines going up 42% against market growth of 21%.
Review of last years priorities What we said What we did Theres been a strong take-up of BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone.
User numbers are up 102% and 74% respectively.
Drive growth from Were increasing the average number broader sales of products our customers buy from us.
Were adapting to changes in the public sector market.
Weve coverage, winning Were doing that through multi-product bolstered our regional leadership and aligned our health team with new customers and combinations and by using the BT and local governments reflecting the disaggregation of the centralised cross-selling to EE brands to target existing customers N3 contract.
who dont have both fixed and mobile solutions with us.
Weve reached agreement to end contracts with customers in areas We strengthened our leadership in our we said last year werent core to our future.
And weve also brought regional teams.
together our central government, defence and police organisations under new leadership.
Stand out through We integrated BT OnePhone with our Performance in the year financial integrating our BTnet Internet Access product.
Revenue was down 4% 2016 17: up portfolio and We launched Skype Integration with BT delivering it on the 11% with underlying revenue excluding OnePhone for presence.
Profits fell mainly because of Keep improving our Customer experience scores are all going customer experience.
in the right direction NPS 12.1, RFT declining fixed voice revenues.
rest of our business did well, especially We enhanced our portfolio to make our mobile.
Our broadband Smart Hub now comes with better diagnostics and weve simplified 2018 2017 2016 Year ended 31 March m m m our pricing for BTnet.
Revenue 4,563 4,758 4,294 Change in underlying revenue excluding We won or re-signed a lot of contracts this year, including: transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 4 % 6 % 2 % customer contract Operating costs 3,145 3,230 2,880 WSP UK We were picked as preferred network EBITDA 1,418 1,528 1,414 partner for extra internet connectivity.
Depreciation and amortisation 365 352 284 The solution will provide additional bandwidth to help its people work Operating profit 1,053 1,176 1,130 together better, and enhance end-user Capital expenditure 304 275 153 experience as well as resilience to ensure business continuity.
Strong growth in mobile didnt quite offset falling fixed voice revenues.
As customers shift to IP Voice, Severn Trent Water Well be providing core communications infrastructure, including Managed WAN, they need fewer lines than with traditional voice, so overall line totals fall.
Voice, SIP and LAN services.
Our growing mobile revenues London Borough A multi-million pound contract.
It covers were balanced by the decline in fixed voice revenue and falling of Bromley all the councils IT services.
Well provide equipment sales resulting from our decision to move away from new voice and data networks, mobile lower-margin business.
phones, internet access and support for business software applications to Public Sector and Major Business revenue was down 7%.
We sold be used by more than 2,000 council less equipment and we are still feeling the impact of a few large people.
public sector contracts coming to an end, as highlighted last year.
First Group We were chosen as its preferred Mobility Foreign exchange movements had an 18m positive impact on Partner to provide a full range of Republic of Ireland revenue, where underlying revenue excluding mobility services.
62 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Operating costs were down 3% 2016 17: up 12% and EBITDA was down 7% 2016 17: up 8% because of lower revenues, operational efficiencies and cost savings.
Depreciation and amortisation rose by 4% 2016 17: up 24%.
Capital expenditure went up by 29m 2016 17: 122m increase.
our top priorities for 2018 19 Drive growth from broader sales coverage, winning new customers and cross-selling to existing ones Develop innovative tools to boost cross-selling.
Create new bundles that are simpler to upsell.
Increase our reach through indirect partners.
Stand out through integrating our portfolio and delivering it on the best network Build new converged propositions.
Standardise our solutions across the portfolio.
Offer higher capacity data services.
Keep improving our customer experience, especially digital Provide a more consistent, personalised digital experience for each customer.
Focus more on proactive care.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 63 Our customer-facing units Global Services Were a leading business communications provider with customers in 180 countries.
Across the world we enable customers digital transformations so they can thrive.
Our focus is simple: be the global provider-of-choice for managed network and IT infrastructure services.
Our business is all about transformation.
Transformation affects our Around 73% of our major customers have a presence in the customers and their customers.
It affects our competitors and the Americas.
So we operate in the USA, Canada and 28 countries markets in which we operate.
It affects our strategic partners and across Latin America and the Caribbean.
We do this from offices in the race to roll out new technology and solutions.
people and how they serve our customers.
In Asia, Middle East and Africa we help multinationals expand Ultimately transformation is what we do for our customers, so their operations and we support local companies as they grow they can embrace the opportunities of digitisation.
We have offices in 23 countries across the region.
them trusting their networks, systems and applications to a reliable partner.
Outside the UK, markets are liberalised to widely varying degrees.
In many countries, this can constrain our ability to compete, to a This year weve been carrying out our own transformation.
Were greater or lesser degree.
investing in scalable, repeatable platforms for a specific type of truly global company or organisation.
We are also investing in We continue to press national incumbent operators and differentiating our service, rolling out and managing softwareregulators around the world including in the EU for cost-related defined network solutions, strengthening our security practice, and non-discriminatory wholesale access to their networks, where building on our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
We also ask for notice of any changes to network design or technology which would affect our ability to serve our Were focusing on a smaller number of markets and a more select set customers.
And we are making our service model work more efficiently.
These things will deliver the long-term value our global Services revenue by region customers deserve.
Year ended 31 March 2018 30% UK our strategic review Last year we announced a strategic review of Global Services.
Today 13% AMEA weve already made the first moves to becoming a more profitable, predictable and customer-focused business, which were calling Digital GS.
Digital GS is our strategy to create a better future for Global 20% Americas Services, our people and our customers.
Our business will focus on a set of named global customers and a portfolio of scalable repeatable solutions, supported by outstanding customer service and marketleading security.
37% Continental Europe markets and customers Key market trends customers We have 5,500 customers around the world.
Major accounts are our Our customers are facing new disruptions and challenges.
They include: focus they generated 81% of our revenue in 2017 18.
Around 78% of our revenue came from serving customers operating in switching from old self-managed data centres to cloud-based multiple geographies.
infrastructure responding to the explosion of data traffic, particularly to and Regions from public clouds We have more than 17,000 people worldwide in 59 countries.
the increased complexity of managing growing numbers of Our 20 highest priority countries, including the UK and other key internet and network providers countries where our major customers are based, generate more than increasing risk of cyberattacks and increased exposure as use of 95% of our revenue.
Continental Europe is our largest region by revenue.
We have offices As our customers digitally transform themselves, they rely on us.
We in 17 countries, and an extensive network serving customers across must keep them connected to increasingly vital IT infrastructure and the continent.
applications, help them enrich their customer interactions and boost their peoples productivity.
In the UK, we focus on financial services organisations and multinationals, where we benefit from BTs extensive UK network Customers tell us they want a strategic partner.
They want more and mobile infrastructure.
commercial flexibility eg usage-based billing with reliable quoting and delivery.
And they want faster innovation and time to market for new services.
64 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 T T S I B B n e n r m o m e v B v o i s r a o T i c f t v r i e A n d f o The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion So, were making our business more focused, straightforward and BT connect agile by investing and focusing on what our customers need: Our network services connect our customers to their people, to their own customers and to the cloud.
We offer flexible, intelligent secure, flexible hybrid network solutions with faster deployment hybrid and secure IP, Ethernet and internet virtual private network via our Dynamic Network Services portfolio services, as well as connectivity to third-party cloud services dedicated access to a rich digital ecosystem of the worlds leading providers.
cloud service providers through our Cloud Landing Zone best-in-class customer service using the latest automation and Our Dynamic Network Services programme combines our global information tools flexible enough to cover self-service through infrastructure with the latest technologies.
They include network to fully managed solutions.
function virtualisation NFV and software-defined wide area networking SD-WAN solutions.
These underpin the digital Our competitors include global telecoms companies like AT&T, NTT, transformation of large organisations.
Orange and Vodafone and regional operators like Singtel.
BT Security Cyber attacks now happen every day, sparking cybersecurity conversations in the boardrooms of our customers.
products and services We call our portfolio strategy Cloud of Weve learned a lot protecting our own organisation.
And we use this knowledge to provide consultancy and managed security Clouds.
It brings together our six core services, threat intelligence analysis and management to customers.
product families with our ecosystem This helps them protect themselves from ever-evolving threats and maximise the opportunities of digital transformation securely.
of partners to deliver global network and IT services.
We work with more than 200 vendors.
So our services are powered by leading technologies.
We get intelligence from our global network and intelligence-sharing partnerships.
So the services we Dynamic Network Services are the heart of Cloud of Clouds.
offer are informed by real-time threat intelligence.
Our strategy brings together: strength in intelligent hybrid networks Weve been at the forefront of cybersecurity for more than 70 a wide portfolio, especially in security years, working in close partnerships with government and law a focus on service enforcement to make the internet safer for everyone.
investments in the latest technology.
BT one Were working with leading technology companies and cloud People use technology to communicate in lots of different ways services providers like Amazon Web Services AWS and IBM.
phone, messaging, email, conferencing and data-sharing solutions, Together were helping customers get the most from cloud either at their desks or on the move.
and transform their businesses more quickly.
Our collaboration services help businesses work together better and our six core product families cut costs by transforming interactions with customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
BT contact Our contact centre services help our customers build richer relationships with their customers.
We offer lots of ways to communicate email, web chat, video, social media and phone via BT BT automated systems or dedicated advisers.
Compute Security Our cloud contact solutions give companies more control over costs, letting them change capacity depending on demand.
BT Connect BT BT BT compute Contact One Businesses want reliable, flexible IT platforms and services for their applications, data storage and security.
BT for Financial We provide IT services from 48 data centres around the world, 22 services of which deliver cloud services.
We offer traditional telehousing and colocation through to the latest public, private and hybrid cloud solutions.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 65 f d o n A e r i v f t i o r c T a s o i v B e m v m o r n B B e n T I T S Our customer-facing units continued Global Services continued BT Advise performance in the year strategic Our global team of consultants work with customers to understand their issues and current capabilities and make recommendations based on our portfolio.
delivering great customer experience 1 The plans we develop and support for customers help them do The feedback and insight we get from customers helps us make the things like cut costs or increase productivity.
right decisions to enhance their experience with us.
BT for Financial markets We measure loyalty and identify the things we need to improve To help the global financial community with its regulatory, through monthly net promoter score NPS surveys.
technological, and infrastructure challenges, weve built industryWe use Customer Thermometer to track how they feel about specific solutions.
The BT Radianz Cloud is the worlds largest secure, financial And we use Right First Time measures, like how quickly we deliver services community.
It helps customers cut costs and get to orders or fix faults, to monitor how were doing.
Traders worldwide rely on our specialist Unified Trading voice During the year: devices.
Weve recently added IP Trades portfolio giving Our NPS 12-month rolling average rose 17 points nine customers more options to integrate new compliance and unified points ahead of our year-end target.
More customers feel we communications tools.
understand them and proactively offer solutions.
We provide secure financial messaging to more than 100 Our RFT performance improved 8.2% ahead of our 4.5% companies in the post-trade sector.
target, driven by strong performance in service delivery.
We combine our Radianz and Unified Trading platforms to offer flexible cloud-trading services to more than 50,000 users.
investing for growth 2 performance in the year We remain a global leader for managed network and services We opened a new cybersecurity research and development hub network and IT services.
in Sydney, Australia our first outside the UK.
We also opened a new Security Operations Centre near Frankfurt, Germany part In the last year weve been named as: of a global network of 15. a Leader for the 14th consecutive time in Gartners Magic As part of our Dynamic Network Services programme, we a Quadrant for Network Service Providers, Global February 2018 launched BT Agile Connect.
Its a new SD-WAN service giving a Leader for the fifth consecutive year in Gartners Magic customers control of infrastructure and traffic flows, faster and Quadrant for Managed Hybrid Cloud Hosting MHCH, in Europe more secure set-up, and lower costs.
a June 2017 We also launched: : a Leader for the third year in a row in Gartners 2017 Magic Quadrant for Contact Center as a Service, Western Europe BT connect intelligence  we were a October 2017 first to market with Infovistas latest application performance a Leader for the second year in a row in Gartners 2017 Magic management solution.
It gives customers a new, commerciallyQuadrant for Unified Communications as a Service, Worldwide flexible approach.
a September 2017 BT Bandwidth on demand helps our customers be nimbler by a Leader in the IDC MarketScape Global Managed Security letting them flex network bandwidth in real-time.
BT one collaborate Spark integrates the new Cisco Spark services platform into our voice network.
This is designed to We were also voted number one financial services network provider deliver market-leading audio quality and user experience.
This is the 15th year running Waters internet connect global ddoS offers critical security protection have recognised us for innovation in the BT Radianz Cloud.
a Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, Service agility and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners Were investing in new systems for service assurance and delivery research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims like our Service Intelligence platform.
all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of Our 360 portfolio reviews streamline how we deliver merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent s research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
66 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion partnerships The following table below shows the progress weve made on the We announced a strategic collaboration with Amazon Web priorities we set ourselves last year: Services to help customers adopt cloud services.
Review of last years priorities We extended our strategic partnership with Cisco, under the Dynamic Network Services programme.
What we said What we did We launched a new service, BT Cloud Connect Direct for IBM, to Implement a leaner From April 2018 our top accounts have give global businesses direct access to IBM Cloud via our network.
and more customera new global account management We partnered with Symantec to provide our customers with bestfocused operating model in place.
Grow our cloud-based We grew our security and Cloud 3 Transforming our costs services and security Compute services by double-digits.
portfolio at douOne Cloud and Cloud Contact services ble-digit rates.
We continue to focus on reducing costs.
Operating costs were 8% didnt grow as much but were aiming lower this year.
for double-digit growth in future.
Launch a new digital We launched Dynamic Network Last year we said wed transform Global Services.
Since then weve customer experience, Services, including BT Agile Connect and streamlined and simplified our business to be more efficient and using automation and Bandwidth on Demand.
effective and to more tightly control our costs.
For example: portfolio innovations We introduced the Service Intelligence Restructuring our european operations.
Weve pressed ahead like NFV and SDN.
with a restructuring programme to help us compete more platform.
Now our people can view customers networks and applications effectively, especially in Europe.
By getting rid of duplication and working more efficiently we have been able to rationalise the in real-time.
number of management and back-office roles.
And we brought in tools like MI Kitchen Rationalising our domestic portfolio.
Were switching from a unified data source for better legacy and domestic portfolio platforms onto a set of globally management insight and Service scalable ones.
This year we closed or migrated eleven domestic Orchestration to automate how we product platforms.
Were improving the performance and efficiency of our core European network.
In line with our strategy, weve reduced IP Exchange volumes and equipment sales, leading to This year we won: lower operating costs.
customer contract performance in the year operating Anglo American Security operating centre capability BT Security and endpoint monitoring service.
We took 3.8bn worth of orders, down AWE Cybersecurity.
This fall was due BT Security to our decision to stop pursuing nonDeloitte Video streaming to 35,000 employees strategic opportunities and to changes BT One across North West Europe.
Customers want more Deutsche Post DHL Fixed voice services serving around BT One 3,000 employees in 45 locations.
flexible commercial terms like shorter contract lengths and more usage-based Fujitsu WAN services providing connectivity BT Connect between their own and customers services.
Hella Group Global WAN services connecting BT Connect locations in 12 countries through Europe and Asia.
Mastercard IP Connect managed network services BT Connect in the UK, US and Europe.
Wallenius Wilhelmsen Network connecting more than 100 Logistics locations in 40 countries.
BT Connect British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 67 Our customer-facing units continued Global Services continued Performance in the year financial our top priorities for 2018 19 Revenue fell 9% 2016 17: up 8%.
This Improve service agility and customer experience decline principally reflects lower IP Exchange Automate manually-intensive service processes.
volumes and equipment sales from our Harmonise our systems so theres better end-to-end ownership of strategic decision to reduce low-margin processes.
Introduce new tools to enrich our customer service interactions.
business, reduced revenue from our Italian business, lower general trading across all Deliver our global transformation priorities regions and some large contracts ending.
Implement our global operating model faster.
Complete our organisational re-design in line with our global These factors were partly offset by a positive 68m impact from strategy.
Our key revenue measure, underlying Help our people be more productive through investment in revenue excluding transit, fell 8%.
simplification, tools and process automation.
2018 2017 2016 Make our high-growth strategic portfolio more Year ended 31 march m m m repeatable Revenue 5,013 5,479 5,074 Embed BT Security features more deeply into the rest of our Change in underlying revenue excluding global portfolio.
transit 8 % 2 % 0% Expand our portfolio of standardised Dynamic Network Services Operating costs 4,579 4,984 4,595 solutions.
EBITDA 434 495 479 Simplify commercial offers for cloud solutions.
Depreciation and amortisation 424 439 422 Operating profit 10 56 57 Capital expenditure 278 361 355 a b Underlying revenue in AMEA fell by 5% 2016 17: down 4%.
c In the Americas it fell by 11% 2016 17: fell 6%, reflecting the ongoing impact of a major customer insourcing services in the US and a large contract in Brazil completing in early 2017 18. a In Continental Europe underlying revenue excluding transit dropped by 9% 2016 17: down 5%, reflecting lower IP Exchange volumes, lower equipment sales and lower revenue from our Italian business.
In the UK revenue fell by 6% 2016 17: was up 5% reflecting lower IP Exchange volumes.
Operating costs fell by 8% 2016 17: up 8%.
This mainly reflected lower IP Exchange volumes and lower equipment sales.
EBITDA fell 12% 2016 17: up 3% reflecting certain one-off items in the current year and the prior year benefit arising from a revision of the annual bonus.
Excluding these one-off items, EBITDA was broadly flat.
Depreciation and amortisation was down 3% 2016 17: up 4%.
Operating profit fell by 46m 2016 17: down 1m.
Capital expenditure was down 23% 2016 17: up 2%.
EBITDA less capital expenditure rose by 22m to 156m compared with last years rise of 10m.
a Excludes specific items and foreign exchange movements and acquisitions.
b Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa AMEA.
c United States & Canada and Latin America.
68 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our customer-facing units Wholesale and Ventures We help communications companies provide fixed or mobile phone services.
We also offer specialist enterprise services to our ventures and Internet of Things customers.
Our 4,700 people combine unique expertise in fixed and wholesale coupled with solutions from our partners, serve high street retailers, network solutions with operational knowledge in our venture large logistics groups and utilities.
This year we created a new unit dedicated to the Internet of Things, serving the wider BT Group.
We also offer IoT connectivity to our wholesale partners in the UK, using the EE mobile network.
markets and customers products and services Our wholesale business helps Broadband and ethernet communications providers CPs and other We provide CPs with broadband and Ethernet connections between their core network and their customers.
organisations provide fixed or mobile phone services.
Our ventures provide Wholesale Broadband Connect can now serve 98% of premises with copper-based broadband 2016 17: 96% and more than 29m mass-market services like directory premises with fibre.
Combined with our older broadband network, enquiries and payphones, and enterprise we can reach 99% of premises.
services including BT Fleet and BT Wholesale Ethernet lets customers connect at speeds of up to Redcare.
Wholesale Optical boosts those speeds to 100Gbps.
This year we extended our own fibre-based Ethernet to more third-party Wholesale: Fixed network services datacentres.
We provide wholesale fixed network services to more than 1,400 customers.
They include Sky, TalkTalk, Telefonica O2, Three and Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS carries mobile voice Virgin Media and overseas CPs operating in the UK.
and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts.
We also provide specialist media and broadcast services to voice companies like the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, Premier League Our IP Exchange platform helps CPs carry their customers voice Productions and Viacom18.
calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
Its used by more than 170 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
Wholesale: mobile network services We help Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs offer their CPs without their own voice network can use Wholesale Calls, which own-brand mobile plans.
Today our MVNO business supports 3.7m routes calls for them from start to finish.
They keep their customer customers.
They access the EE mobile network under our partners relationships through their own sales, service and billing.
hosted communications Wholesale: market trends Traditionally, businesses made and received calls over phone lines via The key trends this year were: a switchboard.
rising demand for bandwidth and superfast connectivity, Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers calls over broadband or Ethernet, especially fibre broadband while Wholesale Hosted Centrex puts switchboard capabilities into higher MVNO subscription volumes, coupled with slightly lower our network.
average prices more price competition for wholesale data products like Ethernet Similarly, our Hosted Contact Centres replace the systems and and broadband services needed to handle large numbers of inbound or outbound the UK markets fastest ever growth in cloud communication customer calls.
business users in the last six months with more than 3m business users for the first time.
mobile virtual network operator mvno We have kept our focus on supporting MVNOs, helping them give ventures their customers access to the EE mobile network under their own Our ventures provide solutions to more than 1,000 enterprise brand.
In 2017 18 we signed a new agreement with China Mobile.
They include law firms, energy providers and mobile It launched a mobile proposition for Chinese communities, students payment companies.
We also handle millions of directory enquiries and 999 calls and managed solutions deliver the Phone Book to more than 21m homes and businesses.
Weve designed a range of fully-managed solutions, including access infrastructure, backhaul and core services.
This means greater internet of Things flexibility to meet CPs needs and includes the migration path to The Internet of Things IoT is a network of connected objects that next generation technologies.
exchange data to drive insight and action.
Our IoT propositions, British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 69 Our customer-facing units continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Our portfolio includes Managed Install a quick and efficient The phone Book: we deliver this to 21.7m UK homes and Ethernet circuit installation and Managed Wayleave a solution businesses.
Roughly 200,000 UK businesses advertise in the Phone that streamlines getting landowners rights of way.
Books print and digital editions.
machine-to-machine and internet of Things Our other ventures are more enterprise-oriented: We have four products in our Internet of Things portfolio.
And were actively building new ones.
BT cables: we manufacture, source and supply cabling for telcos, railways and other industries.
machine-to-machine and ioT network solutions: these use our mobile and fixed networks to help companies communicate securely BT Fleet: we source, manage and maintain BTs fleet of 33,000 with their devices and improve their services features and reliability.
And we manage a further 58,000 vehicles for brands like the AA and National Grid.
intelligent Retail Solution: this helps high street retailers better understand customer footfall in their stores.
Its powered by the BT Redcare: we link on-site alarm systems and central alarm Acuitas Alliance of BT, Intel, RetailNext, SATO and other partners.
receiving centres to secure more than 200,000 UK homes and businesses.
Asset intelligence: these solutions let customers track, monitor and control assets via RFID, low power networks and cellular BT Supply chain: we hold and dispatch products like mobile phones radio technology.
For customers with big field engineering teams, we manage vehicles, supply engineers, return any surplus supplies Smart cities starter kit: this gives UK cities a bundle of preto base and provide real-time data for route management.
configured use cases in things like transport management, lighting and operations.
Were involved in two big projects transforming Tikit: we provide IT solutions to law and accountancy firms in the Milton Keynes MK Smart and Manchester City Verve.
We sell to more than two-thirds of the top 100 law firms, and across Europe, North America and Australia.
Roaming We help BT and EE mobile customers use their mobiles abroad messaging: we offer bulk text messaging to major UK and public through roaming agreements in more than 200 destinations.
This year we sold 2.7 billion texts 25% more than last year.
We also sent 0.5 billion text appointment reminders media services and alerts for NHS patients and staff.
Our media network connects major spots around the world where broadcast or film content is created or distributed.
performance in the year strategic In the UK it carries all the nations digital terrestrial TV, as well as TV broadcasts from more than 150 sports and news locations.
delivering great customer experience 1 Elsewhere, local partners help us link TV stations to major sports venues worldwide.
Were making progress in giving our customers a better and simpler experience.
We also offer media services like cloud-based content playout and media file acceleration.
Net satisfaction measures our customers views on how were doing.
Its the difference between those who score us very high 9 and ventures those who score us lower six or less on the net promoter scale of Our ventures provide well-known services nationwide: 0-10.
999: we handle 999 and 112 the European equivalent calls on During the year we improved our website and online service BT and other CPs behalf.
In 2017 18, we answered more than 32 platforms.
For example, we launched a new online capability for million 999 and 112 calls.
Despite the fires, terrorism incidents and buying Ethernet services online meaning faster and simpler bad weather that hit the UK, we answered these calls in an average ordering.
We also improved our Fleet Solutions booking experience time of 0.45 seconds a big achievement.
and the quality of our information updates for our customers.
These initiatives boosted net satisfaction up 4.3 points from last next generation text calls: we deal with the next generation text year.
calls that support deaf, hard of hearing or speech-impaired people.
Our Right First Time measure continues to improve, increasing 3.4% on last year.
This was helped by us achieving 100% of directory enquiries: we offer six services.
They include 118 contractual milestone dates for Managed Ethernet commitments 500 for people to get listed phone numbers easily and 195 for during Q4, and a 9% improvement in our Ethernet delivery to first directory access for people who cant use a phone book due to customer promise date.
payphones: we provide most of the UKs payphones, whether in public places or on private premises.
In 2017, we launched InLink UK, our new digital kiosks, see page 71.
70 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion performance in the year operating investing for growth 2 Our product mix is changing.
Customers This year weve invested in both new connectivity options for used traditional products less, as wholesale networks and in the services to run those networks.
But that was balanced by a Looking ahead, were implementing a new strategy for our ventures and for the Internet of Things for the wider BT Group.
healthy order book and growing revenues in other areas.
Wholesale Were developing our sales channels, changing our sales This year we signed almost 1,418bn of orders.
They included: organisation and investing more in people, processes and systems.
extending our Managed Services Contract with Virgin Media to ventures operate its UK voice network In fleet, we bought SEV a mobile vehicle maintenance business and rolling out a new managed service contract with InLinkUK integrated it with our fleet operations.
We grew our team of mobile signing a multi-year product and professional services technicians by 18%.
And we launched a suite of mobile apps: driver framework deal with KCOM daily defect checker, self-service booking, accident management deploying IoT asset tracking solutions for logistics and and garage locator.
utility customers delivering a new MVNO partnership with China Mobile In supply chain this year, we finished integrating Pelipod the smart signing a new multi-year deal with Daisy to manage its locker company we bought in 2016.
We installed 264 Pelipodend-to-end supply chain and logistics.
lockers and 2,518 Pelipod-boxes at 332 sites.
And we established a nationwide network for field operations supporting BT engineers and external customers like EDF Energy.
Review of last years priorities What we said What we did In payphones, we launched InLinkUK in June 2017.
These kiosks replace old phone boxes and provide free digital services for the Start deploying our InLinkUK launched in June 2017. public and advertising for businesses.
"They feature the UKs fastest new digital street free public wi-fi and a pair of 55"" HD digital displays."
There are now There are now 138 kiosks installed in kiosks.
138 InLink kiosks installed in London and Leeds with hundreds London and Leeds with hundreds more due in 2018 19. more due across the UK in 2018 19.
Our new Internet of Things team is engaging with major customers Expand our managed We launched our new portfolio of and partners across BT Group.
Building on our partnership with the services capacity, to Professional Services.
help customers run Williams F1 team, we recently hosted a transport ecosystem event their networks and for 100 customers.
The team also supports internal IoT initiatives to improve customer Help mobile network Were providing advanced mobileexperience and cut costs and carbon emissions.
There have been operators prepare for focused products and managed services initiatives in EE datacentres, trials for smart building solutions and the next generation to our mobile network operator solutions to track BTs fleet.
customers as they deploy 4G networks and plan for 5G.
Weve evolved our portfolio to include Transforming our costs 3 small cells and are deploying them at more than 50 UK sites.
Theyre used Ongoing cost transformation projects continued to save by mobile operators to improve 4G us money.
Weve: coverage and for future 5G capacity.
audited, renegotiated and consolidated suppliers, especially in Add 4G mobile Were currently launching a new and new areas of Wholesale and Ventures access to our hosted improved mobile application called consolidated old or end-of-life platforms communications Office UC on our hosted Centrex reviewed our structure to make sure were the right size and fit for portfolio.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 71 Our customer-facing units continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Data and Broadband revenue was down 8%, due to the continuing What we said What we did decline in legacy Partial Private Circuits and price pressure in an Develop new solutions There are now IoT solutions in some increasingly competitive wholesale broadband market.
Ethernet for the Internet of datacentres.
Theyve helped us saw a 2% increase.
Voice revenue was down 6% due to the market Things.
anticipate and fix faults which might decline in call volumes.
have affected broadband customers and optimise our energy consumption.
Wholesale Mobile revenue was up 2% at 229m supported by Were rolling out components of our growing data usage and more customers moving to 4G.
intelligent retail solution in our retail estate around 600 EE stores to Ventures revenue of 321m was up 3% compared with last year.
improve customer experience and store This was driven by growth in BT Fleet, both organic and through operations.
acquisitions for example the SEV acquisition that allows Fleet to have mobile repair capacity.
Bulk messaging services also grew Were developing more IoT propositions significantly.
These were offset by reductions in BT Cables because with major product launches in the of falling demand for copper cabling, and further reductions in coming months.
our Phone Book, Payphones and BT Redcare businesses which continued to decline in line with their markets.
Improve customer RFT has increased significantly with a experience especially 3.4% increase in one year.
Operating costs were flat reflecting the change in product mix as RFT delivery for higher margin legacy products continue to decline.
Wholesale Ethernet We improved Ethernet delivery by the and Hosted customer required-by date by 9%.
EBITDA was down 10% on last year reflecting the lower revenue on Communications high-margin legacy services, continuing migration to lower-margin We delivered Managed Ethernet Services.
IP services in Wholesale, and the change in product mix.
Access Service MEAS 100% on time duringQ4.
Depreciation and amortisation was up 2% 2016 17: 21%, primarily due to the BT Fleet vehicle replacement programme.
Operating profit went down by 16% 2016 17: up by 5%.
Performance in the year financial Revenue was down 5% compared with Capital expenditure was up 1%.
This included our top priorities for 2018 19 12m or 25% less transit revenue than Roll out new services in our wholesale and venture the year before.
businesses Continue the rollout of our digital kiosks InLinkUK.
2018 2017 2016 Year ended 31 march m m m Revenue 2,009 2,109 2,274 Expand our growth portfolio Change in underlying revenue excluding Keep building Internet of Things solutions and strengthening our transit adjusted for the acquisition position in this area.
of EE 4 % 3 % Carry on developing and rolling out our nationwide final mile network.
Operating costs 1,255 1,275 1,519 EBITDA 754 834 755 Improve customer experience Depreciation and amortisation 311 306 253 Roll out a new programme to improve customer experience on Operating profit 443 528 502 our website and digital platforms.
Capital expenditure 229 226 209 Improve the multi-product experience.
Revenue was down 5%, this reflects the market decline in legacy products partially offset by growth in Ventures.
Managed Solutions revenue declined 9% as MEAS saw a 13% fall.
Mobile network operators have now largely completed the 4G build phase, so they added capacity at fewer sites and connected fewer new sites.
This was partially offset by growth in other contracts.
72 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Our customer-facing units Openreach Were Britains digital network business connecting homes and businesses large and small.
We want to build the best possible network with the highest quality service, and make sure everyone in Britain is connected.
The DCR agreement with Ofcom is based on voluntary commitments We build the network that connects Britains from BT.
Once theyre fully implemented, it means: homes and businesses to the future.
Openreach becoming a distinct company a new Openreach board with an independent chair and majority of independent directors setting the direction and overseeing Were responsible for providing services the company over the local access network sometimes executives being accountable to the new Openreach board Openreach having control over strategy and budget allocation called the last mile, and installing within an overall framework set by BT and maintaining the fibre and copper Openreach consulting widely with Communication Providers to inform its network investments, including through a new communications networks that connect confidential consultation phase homes and businesses.
Over the past 12 months, weve already taken big steps to meet Communications Providers CPs access our network on equivalent the commitments quickly and work in a new way.
That means they all get the same products, prices and levels establishing the Openreach board, consulting with customers on of service.
They use our network to deliver services ranging from FTTP investment and launching a new, distinct brand.
In fact weve home phone, broadband and TV to high-speed data connections for delivered many of the commitments ahead of the original schedule businesses of all sizes.
delivering a more independent openreach Openreach has now been incorporated Openreach Ltd.
This follows the long-term regulatory agreement between BT and Ofcom markets and customers under the Digital Communications Review DCR.
When all DCR The UK has the highest share of GDP preconditions have been met, Openreach will operate as a distinct, legally separate company within BT plc group.
generated by the digital economy of any country in the G20.
It also has higher We now have more control of our strategy, investments and plans within a strategic and financial framework defined by BT, making it superfast availability and take-up than more autonomous, transparent, and accountable to customers and any major European peer.
our part in this success story by building Greater independence also strengthens our ability to work more and running the largest superfast network closely with all our customers.
These stronger partnerships will deliver a future communications infrastructure that will remain the in the country.
foundation of the UKs vibrant internet economy.
At the end of December 2017 there were 26m connected broadband lines in the UK.
80% of these excluding Hull use Openreachs network.
The rest are mainly on Virgin Medias cable network.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 73 Our customer-facing units continued Openreach continued Our customers are the communication providers CPs who provide products and services communications services to homes and business across the UK.
We We provide network access and also work closely with property developers building new properties to deliver our network to new sites.
They deliver phone, broadband and higher bandwidth data There are 600 CPs using our network.
They operate in three markets: services through four main products: consumer made up of households using fixed-line broadband copper access, fibre access, Ethernet and and home phone services.
Our largest customers include BT Consumer, Sky and TalkTalk.
Business consisting of the 5.5m businesses in the UK.
Most of our customers serve business clients.
copper access infrastructure including firms building network infrastructure Wholesale line Rental WlR lets CPs offer phone services to data centres and mobile cell sites, and property developers to their customers using our equipment and copper network.
They pay for lines between our exchanges and their customers premises.
Recent market trends include: local loop Unbundling llU provides CPs with a direct strong and growing demand for superfast fibre as consumers connection to the local network or local loop.
CPs can install lives become more data-hungry their own equipment in, or near to, our exchanges, and use it to major investment in CPs backhaul capacity spurred by more provide phone and broadband services to their customers.
data usage and network reach to make sure everyone gets superfast speeds Fibre access more demand from consumers for high-capacity and reliable Our wholesale fibre product is called Generic Ethernet Access.
We connectivity, and from businesses investing in cloud computing offer a few versions: and IoT Fibre-to-the-cabinet FTTc uses fibre from the exchange to the a dynamic mobile connectivity market which is investing in street cabinet, then the existing copper network for the final link greater capacity and coverage driving innovative solutions to customers.
a fast-growing data centre market, creating a new need for highgfast uses fibre from the exchange to the street cabinet, then capacity circuits 1Gbps or more.
uses high performance equipment to generate ultrafast speeds over the existing copper network for the final link to customers.
competitors  FTTp uses fibre all the way from the Our main competitors also build networks.
Virgin Media is the exchange to the premises.
We also offer speed tiers for smaller largest.
Its cable network covers roughly half of UK homes, with businesses needing ultrafast speeds at less cost than Ethernet.
plans to reach around 17m premises by 2019.
Fibre access allows us to offer superfast broadband 24Mbps via Other companies are building their own fibre access networks.
FTTC and FTTP and ultrafast broadband 100Mbps via Gfast and CityFibre, Hyperoptic and Gigaclear are deploying fibre-to-theFTTP.
premises across urban and rural areas, making our market more competitive.
ethernet and optical high-bandwidth services These are high-speed fibre connections.
CPs use them to build and In November 2017 CityFibre announced plans to bring FTTP to up extend their networks, providing high-quality, high-bandwidth to 5m premises by 2025 working in partnership with Vodafone.
services to businesses and the public sector.
ethernet Access direct eAd offers competitive services In February 2018 TalkTalk announced it was investing in a joint from 10Mbps to 10Gbps to all UK businesses and venture with Infracapital to deploy FTTP to over 3m premises.
Competitors in the business and infrastructure markets include optical Spectrum Services oSS are scalable wavelength Virgin Media, Colt Group and Vodafone.
solutions offering up to 100Gbps at any distance.
In 2018 we launched OSA Filter Connect to offer good value high-bandwidth Pricing, service delivery and product innovation remain competitive pricing with lower incremental scaling costs.
Price per Gigabit is falling because of intense competition particularly in urban areas.
New products like our OSA Filter infrastructure solutions Connect reflect the markets competitive nature and the need to CPs use our infrastructure solutions to build their own networks.
innovate to best meet customers needs.
Third parties can ask us to rearrange our network or work on their networks.
Flexible co-mingling lets CPs put their equipment in our exchanges.
physical infrastructure Access piA lets CPs use our ducts and telephone poles to roll out their own fibre networks.
PIA has been available since 2011.
Mobile Infill Infrastructure Solution MiiS lets CPs install their radio equipment in special cabinets linked to antennas 74 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion on telephone poles and use their spectrum to improve investing for growth 2 mobile coverage.
network rearrangements help third parties progress their Our ambition is to deliver ultrafast speeds to homes and businesses projects by moving or removing our network.
Were committed to bringing FTTP to 3m premises by 2020.
Well avoid building Gfast, only to rebuild later with FTTP performance in the year strategic that would be a waste of money.
delivering great customer experience 1 Our FTTP technology delivers ultrafast speeds of 1Gbps.
Its the technology of choice for all new homes and businesses.
Weve The table on page 78 shows how were doing on service.
It includes proposed to industry that 10m homes and businesses could have a few key measures called Minimum Service Levels MSLs.
FTTP by the mid-2020s under the right conditions.
That means cutting the cost of rolling it out, the right market demand, and MSLs are quality of service standards for installation and repair Government support through regulation.
which are set by Ofcom and increase annually.
Every quarter we publish our performance data with extra levels of detail.
Gfast delivers ultrafast speeds of 300-500Mbps on our existing copper network.
Its a really important part of our ultrafast strategy We recognise the MSLs represent the minimum service standard and and well deploy it to millions of UK premises.
we are set to deliver performance ahead of these.
This year we have again delivered ahead of Ofcoms copper MSLs.
For CP customers serving larger businesses, we launched a new managed fibre product OSA Filter Connect in April 2018.
On-time customer provisions are now at just under 95% meaning nearly all our customers get service when they want it, significantly Also in April 2018, Ofcom announced its decision not to impose a ahead of Ofcoms MSL of 89%.
Our average first available regulated Dark Fibre product for business connectivity during the appointment date is well below our 12-day service level target.
Our investments in people and processes are working.
Theyre investing in our people helping us keep up our performance during tough, high-demand More than 30,000 people work for Openreach, including network patches like bad winter weather.
We had fewer faults this year than engineers and planners who look after our access network.
And we invested more than 30m to boost resilience and stop network faults rising like they have in the past.
To help us better meet customer demands, weve hired 2,392 new engineers this year.
This boost in our people has helped us to both Were improving our customer service.
There were 29.7% fewer deliver beyond our MSLs and reduce missed appointments for a missed appointments than last year where we were responsible.
Customer satisfaction increased by 3.8% during the year, from Nearly 300 of these new engineers are focused solely on cutting a half-year baseline when our measures changed.
And our Right network faults contributing this year to 104,400 fewer faults.
First Time programme helped us to beat our targets to improve key We trained around 400 as fibre engineers delivering ultrafast to service indicators by 3.7%.
newly-built properties and government funded BDUK contracts.
Our service for large businesses keeps getting better.
Were Our people are telling us theyre able to serve our customers better.
providing more Ethernet circuits than ever before, and cutting the Our latest people survey showed a 20% increase in pride in our backlog of jobs.
On average it takes us 40 days to install an Ethernet service, and a 17% increase in confidence in the health of our line, and we fix 95% of Ethernet faults in five hours.
In July 2017, the Competition Appeal Tribunal ruled there were We want our best engineers to stay in the field, developing their errors in Ofcoms Business Connectivity Market Review market skills, delivering for customers and supporting others to do the assessment.
So Ethernet MSLs were removed.
emergency powers to reimpose remedies on us including MSLs covering the period up to the end of March 2019.
Thats why this year, in response to engineer feedback, weve created and launched Engineering Career Pathways.
Part of this is We are currently outperforming four of the six temporary Ethernet the introduction of a new Senior Engineer role top engineers who MSLs.
We remain concerned that the two remaining MSLs arent can solve the most complex customer problems and pass on their operationally achievable.
Were making further representations to skills and experience to their teams.
Ofcom about this but that in no way weakens our resolve to further improve Ethernet service.
Weve also modernised our training centres to include more varied and realistic training environments.
This helps engineers learn the skills they need to serve customers in lots of different scenarios, in one location.
Were building 12 new fibre training centres the first of which opened in Bradford in March 2018.
These things, and other interventions to positively influence our culture, have boosted our peoples engagement levels by 17% compared with last year.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 75 Our customer-facing units continued Openreach continued extending our reach 3 Transforming our costs Weve completed the build of superfast fibre in the BDUK programme to more than 4.8m homes and businesses.
To reach Weve continued to review the way we work, simplifying our more remote communities, weve partnered with local bodies and business to cut the cost of delivery while improving customer the BDUK programme.
Weve made available 129m of reinvestment funding, earlier than This year we: planned.
And weve worked with UK Government and local body introduced new connectorised technology to make the job of partnerships to secure further funding to bring fibre to even more connecting up FTTP simpler.
This more plug-and-play approach homes and businesses.
means we can deploy more engineers to build networks and connect customers cheaper and quicker Our Community Fibre Partnerships programme uses co-funding to used innovative technologies to speed up network build.
Our new deliver high speed fibre broadband.
To date weve signed deals with mechanised diggers dig trench, lay fibre, then fill the trench back more than 500 communities.
And 250 now have superfast and in automatically.
And were using drones to connect up fibre cable ultrafast access for over 65,000 premises.
in hard-to-reach locations invested in new technology to go inside customer homes.
This We work with communities to secure funding from lots of different sources.
They include the Governments Local Full Fibre Network includes invisible cable and extendable plug-ins, which cut the time spent connecting customers to fibre and Better Broadband voucher schemes and property developers.
Weve helped more than 60 school communities through our grant trialled the use of mobile planners who can survey and plan jobs scheme to get access to a faster network.
out and about on a tablet meaning customers wait less time for service The table below shows how were doing against the priorities we set launched an engineer accreditation scheme for fibre to help share for ourselves last year.
learning on how to cut the cost of building networks and time to install.
Review of last years priorities What we said What we did performance in the year operating connecting Britain to the future Our superfast fibre network is now Expand our ultrafast Weve passed 1m premises with Gfast available to more than 27.5m premises.
broadband network and 567,000 with FTTP.
By 2020 And 9.8m are now fibre customers.
with Gfast and FTTP, our Fibre First programme will give reaching 2m homes FTTP access to 3m premises.
And were We also grew our Ethernet customer and businesses with continuing to deliver our Gfast platform FTTP by the end of base by 11.6%.
Investing in fibre Work to deploy FTTP Weve made the most of our existing Weve helped the government achieve its ambition of making using microfibre underground ducts by blowing through superfast speeds available to 95% of the UK.
Weve done it by overtechnology.
This means we can build the delivering.
We committed to bring superfast speeds to more than fibre network more quickly and cheaply.
730,000 premises between January and December 2017 where it wasnt already available.
In fact, we brought speeds of 24Mbps or more to 774,000 premises.
delivering a great customer experience Achieve our RFT goal We achieved 95% on-time installations Were investing heavily in our fibre network.
Superfast broadband of 95% on-time for new lines, significantly ahead of of over 24Mbps is today available to more than 27.5m homes and installations by the Ofcoms Minimum Service Level.
end of 2017, ahead of Ofcoms Minimum Our FTTP network is the UKs biggest.
We delivered more FTTP Service Level.
this year than ever before.
Our footprint of 567,000 premises, combined with over 1m on Gfast, means that more than 1.5m Hire 1,500 frontline This year we hired 2,392 extra premises can get ultrafast.
engineers to further frontline engineers.
Were extending our FTTP rollout to reach 3m premises by the end of 2020.
If conditions are right well go well beyond that bringing the benefits of FTTP to nearly all UK homes and businesses.
Drive higher We trained around 400 new recruits investment in fibre as fibre engineers this year.
And we To stimulate adoption, we provide free FTTP to all developments of skills and grow our modernised our training centres so 30 properties.
Since April 2017, 99% of plots on these sites are Fibre Academy.
engineers could learn the right skills.
contracted to be built with FTTP.
76 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion What we said What we did our top priorities for 2018 19 Working with government and industry Investment in fibre technology Well invest further in FTTP, starting in eight UK cities and Work with the In December 2017 the Government building to 10m premises by the mid-2020s as long as Government to opted for a broadband Universal Service conditions are right.
support its objective Obligation USO rather than the Well launch Gfast at scale in the UK to millions of premises, as a for universal voluntary offer wed proposed.
Well critical component of our ultrafast strategy.
now work closely with them, Ofcom and industry to develop the USO.
decent broadband for all Launch a consultation We consulted with customers and Well support government aims to bring at least 10Mbps with industry to shape announced our Fibre First programme.
broadband speeds to everyone in the UK, and the Scottish future FTTP plans.
It will bring FTTP to 3m homes and Parliaments aim to deliver 30Mbps speeds in Scotland.
Well begin Where we can, well deliver superfast or ultrafast speeds higher building FTTP in eight major cities than the minimum speed.
during 2018. improving customer experience Well aim to speed up our fibre repair by 3% ahead of Performance in the year financial Ofcoms MSLs.
Well hire 3,000 extra engineers to support our Fibre First Revenue stayed flat.
Strong demand for initiative to deliver FTTP across the UK.
our fibre products was offset by regulatory price cuts and lower copper line rental.
EBITDA fell 4% due to higher business rates and pension charges.
The 22% growth in fibre broadband was offset by a reduction in our copper line base and regulatory price cuts.
Operating costs went up 6% 2016 17: up 1% driven mainly by a rise in business rates charged on network assets and higher pension charges.
Depreciation and amortisation was down 1% 2016 17: up 5% and operating profit down 8% 2016 17: down 7%.
This reflects our ongoing investment in fibre broadband speed and coverage which helped us contribute to the Governments ambition to get superfast to 95% of the UK by December 2017.
This was after gross grant income of 179m 2016 17: 159m directly related to building the BDUK programme.
It was offset by an increase in our grant funding deferral of 110m 2016 17: 185m because of good fibre broadband take-up.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 77 Our customer-facing units continued Openreach continued openreach performance against service responsibilities Improvement Steady performance staying focused Improvement needed with plans in place to get back on track a ofcom minimum standard movement 2017 18 2016 17 Home and smaller businesses Average time to install with an engineer working days 13.29 13.65 Average time to install without an engineer working days 8.72 9.54 Installations needing an engineer waiting 22 days or longer 0.2% 0.24% for an appointment Average time for first available appointment date for a new 7.87 7.65 installation working days New lines needing an engineer visit not installed 31 days past 1.00% 1.32% target date Average time to fix faults Maintenance level 1 working days 2.14 1.23 Average time to fix faults Maintenance level 2 working days 1.66 1.80 Faults not fixed after 31 days or more Maintenance level 1 0.05% 0.55% Faults not fixed after 31 days or more Maintenance level 2 0.07% 0.64% Home and smaller business MSLs New lines installed on time WLR3 89% 95.44% 93.50% New lines installed on time MPF 89% 94.41% 93.76% First available appointment date for a new installation 79% 92.10% 90.00% working days 12 days or less WLR3 First available appointment date for a new installation 79% 91.90% 92.40% working days 12 days or less MPF Faults fixed within agreed time Maintenance level 1 77% 84.88% 83.39% Faults fixed within agreed time Maintenance level 2 77% 80.37% 78.12% Larger business MSLs Average time to install working days n m 40 n m Delivery date certainty n m 78.4% n m Circuits provided in 30 working days n m 61.1% n m Circuits provided in more than 118 working days n m 6.6% n m Faults fixed within agreed time n m 95.2% n m n m The products and areas that Openreach is regulated in for Business Connectivity services changed in 2017 18, making the comparison not meaningful.
a The figures in last years Annual Report were for the fourth quarter, these figures are full-year figures for 2016 17.
78 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
