STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION VIABILITY STATEMENT During the year, the Directors assessed Firstly, the Directors considered the Finally, a reverse stress test was the viability of the company, taking into impact of severe but plausible scenarios performed which allowed the Directors account the companys current financial for each principal risk.
For example, the to assess the circumstances that would position and the principal risks, particularly introduction of a Deposit and Return render the business model unviable.
those that could threaten the business Scheme DRS system in the UK could To support the final conclusion on model.
These risks and the actions being have an impact on the companys cost viability, the assessment also took into taken to manage or mitigate them are set base, a no-deal Brexit could impact account the mitigations available to out above.
The Directors have determined the continuity of supply of goods the company to protect against these that a three-year period is an appropriate between the UK and the EU in the period downside scenarios.
timeframe for the assessment given the immediately following 29 March 2019, Based on the results of this analysis, the dynamic nature of the FMCG sector, and or a major IT breach could result in an Directors have a reasonable expectation this is in line with the companys strategic outage in key systems resulting in the that the company will be able to continue planning period.
The starting point for the temporary inability to manufacture and in operation and meet its liabilities as viability assessment is the strategic and sell goods.
they fall due over the three-year period to financial plan, which makes assumptions Secondly, the Directors assessed September 2021. relating to the economic climate in each different scenarios that group together of our markets, the growth of the soft principal risks.
As part of this, the drinks category, input cost ination and Directors considered the interconnectivity growth from the companys value drivers.
between principal risks but also scenarios The process for assessing the viability where unconnected risks occur at the of the company involved input from a same time.
number of functions across the business The stress test scenarios were then to model a series of theoretical stress test reviewed against the companys current scenarios based on the materialisation of and projected debt and liquidity position.
principal risks: Pressade Bonjour Pressade, our juice brand in France, continued to grow, building on its organic credentials following the launch of the Bonjour range of breakfast juices last year.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 35
