CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the company and the Group for the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2018.
Additional disclosures Other information that is relevant to this report is incorporated by reference, including information required in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and associated regulations, Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The following sets out where items required to be included in this report under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found: Indication of future developments Strategic report Pages 1-47 Financial risk management CFOs review Page 44 Directors report Page 84 Notes to the accounts Pages 125-129 Employment of disabled persons Sustainable business review Page 40 Employee involvement Sustainable business review Page 39 Greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable business review Page 42 The following sets out where items required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 can be found: Dividend waiver Directors report Page 84 Directors interests Directors report Page 86 Remuneration report Page 80 Major shareholders Directors report Page 85 Operations and performance Dividends and dividend waiver The Groups profit before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 145.8m 2017: 138.8m and the profit after taxation amounted to 117.1m 2017: 111.6m.
An interim dividend of 7.9p 2017: 7.2p per ordinary share was paid on 13 July 2018.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 20.3p 2017: 19.3p per ordinary share payable on 4 February 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 December 2018, giving a total dividend in respect of 2018 of 28.2p 2017: 26.5p, an increase of 6.4% per cent over the previous year.
The trustees of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan have elected to waive dividends on shares held under trust relating to dividends payable during the year.
Research and development The Group carries out research and development necessary to support its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Events since the balance sheet date On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that Lloyds Banking Group must equalise the guaranteed minimum pensions GMP for men and women.
The judgement is likely to have an impact on the liabilities of both GB and Northern Ireland schemes.
The group has started to work through the impact of this judgement with the schemes actuaries.
Based on the approach used in recent buy-outs of pension schemes the expected impact for all UK schemes affected would be in the region of 1-3% of scheme liabilities depending on the individual characteristics of the pension scheme.
There is therefore a risk that the schemes liabilities for the group could increase by c. 7m 20m.
Due to the timing of the ruling this has been considered a non-adjusting post balance sheet event and the impact of the GMP equalisation will be quantied and accounted for during the accounting period starting 1 October 2018.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shares and shareholders Share capital The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares divided into ordinary shares of 20 pence each ordinary shares.
As at 30 September 2018, the companys issued share capital comprised 264,606,911 ordinary shares.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a proxy or proxies in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the general meeting and published on the companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and Britvics share dealing code whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 30 September 2018, the Trustees held 1.28% 2017: 1.31% of the issued share capital of the company.
Similarly, if First Names Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic Employee benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary shares on trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the Group, a dividend waiver is in place.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
The Trustees held 0.27% 2017: 0.21% of the issued share capital as at 30 September 2018.
Major shareholders At 30 September 2018, the company had been notied, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the company: Number of ordinary shares Percentage of voting rights FMR LLC 18,432,163 7.00% Prudential 16,549,600 6.27% APG Asset Management 16,080,643 6.12% Standard Life Below 5% Below 5% BlackRock Below 5% Below 5% BNP Paribas 8,096,657 3.06% Governance Articles of association The companys articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The articles were last updated in 2013.
Amendments will be proposed at the AGM in January 2019 to bring them up to current best practice standards.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse uctuations in the financial markets on the Groups reported profitability and cash ows.
The policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are referred to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief Financial Ofcers review and in more detail within note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
Read more on pages 125-129 Going concern and viability The Directors consider that the group and the company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The code required the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the group over a longer period.
This longer-term viability statement is set out on page 35.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Branches As a global Group, our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries and branches which are established in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
Political donations No political donations were made by the Group and its subsidiaries 2017: nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 11.00am on 31 January 2019 at the ofces of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Britvic website at www.
Directors The following were directors of the company during the year: Suniti Chauhan appointed on 28 November 2017, Sue Clark, John Daly, Mathew Dunn, William Eccleshare appointed on 28 November 2017, Ben Gordon resigned on 31 January 2018, Ian McHoul, Simon Litherland and Euan Sutherland.
Directors powers Subject to company law and the companys articles, the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Executive team is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
The articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first AGM following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 50 and 51 of this report.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce.
Directors interests The Directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract, other than under their service contract or letter of appointment, which was subsisting during or existing at the end of year and which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
There are procedures in place to deal with any conicts of interest and these have operated effectively during the year.
Read more on page 80 Directors liabilities As at the date of this report, customary indemnities are in place under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles, to indemnify: the Directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the Groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
Change of control provisions There are no agreements between the company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control.
Disclaimer The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the company and it has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the company as a body, and no other persons.
The company, its Directors and employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
A cautionary statement in respect of forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report appears on the inside front cover of this document.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 28 November 2018.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Adelman Company Secretary Britvic plc Company No.
