Our resources and culture In this section we talk about the resources that set us apart and underpin our business model.
We also describe our culture and approach, and commitment to respecting human rights.
Financial strength our networks and physical assets Our financial strength means we can make long-term Our network, service and IT platforms support the investments while supporting other areas of products our customers rely on around the world.
network platforms Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years: our investment in fibre broadband is key to providing services to UK consumers and businesses.
Our fibre broadband network now passes more than 27.5m UK premises, and we provide  Deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth to more customers than any other UK service provider.
To meet the demand from businesses, were continuing to expand Ethernet availability.
grow eBiTdA This year weve again had record levels of traffic across our UK network, with a peak demand of 9.75Tbps.
The investments weve made in broadband technology mean that more customers get faster Grow free cash flow speeds and better reliability over our network.
Weve also developed new technology that should more than invest Support maintain strong double our previous records for data transmission speeds.
Our latest for growth pension fund balance sheet breakthrough should deliver speeds of up to 13Tbps over a single fibre.
This more than doubles the world record of 5.6Tbps we set last year.
We have a prudent financial policy and adhere to a disciplined process for the allocation of capital between four main uses: investment in our global reach the business: supporting the pension fund: and maintaining a strong Our global network is supported by in-country networks and balance sheet.
We also have strong governance and investment infrastructure.
The UK has our widest range of network services, access processes controls.
Together, they help us make the right decisions technologies and coverage.
But we also have extensive networks in when it comes to planning investments, growing our business, and Brazil, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and managing our level of debt and credit metrics.
Healthy finances also mean we can support the business in other ways.
The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching For example we continue to invest in R&D to stay at the forefront of a MPLS network gives us a competitive advantage.
Our virtual private rapidly-changing industry, and in training, developing and supporting network VPN services offer customers the convenience and security our people.
of a private network but over the public internet.
We use our MPLS network, plus a combination of owned and leased fibre connections, to connect our points of presence PoPs around the world.
For the final connection into the customers premises, we either use our own circuits, or lease connections from telecoms operators in that country.
If customers need service in very remote places, we make use of our extensive satellite connections.
Security is an important part of our business.
The expertise weve gained from protecting our own networks helps us secure our customers networks.
Weve seen that hacking tools, phishing scams and disruptive malware are becoming more sophisticated yet more accessible so weve responded by continuing to develop our cyberdefence capability.
16 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
