STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR VALUES 1 2 3 BE PROUD BE BOLD BE DISCIPLINED OVERVIEW SOURCING Britvic is a leader in soft drinks with a broad portfolio Our team takes a global approach to of leading brands.
We manufacture in Great Britain, sourcing the raw materials we need.
We have a commercial We spend hundreds of millions of pounds presence in other markets such as the Netherlands, each year on commodities, packaging and Belgium and the USA.
In Great Britain and Ireland other material in the manufacturing of our we are a proud partner of PepsiCo, bottling and brands.
We organise our sourcing teams selling their range of brands alongside our ownedbased on experience of key materials brand portfolio.
and they work closely with suppliers to ensure we achieve consistent, high quality ingredients and materials at a fair price and ensure the sustainability of supply.
Our responsible approach Britvic is committed to producing high quality soft drinks which are sourced MANUFACTURING and manufactured in a fair, ethical AND DISTRIBUTION and environmentally responsible way.
We engage with our suppliers to better In each of our core markets we have our understand the ethical and environmental own factories where we manufacture the impact associated with the materials that majority of our brands.
We offer a range we purchase.
We use Sedex, a supplier of pack formats including PET, glass and data platform, to review our suppliers aluminium.
Our main ingredients are approach to ethical and environmental avour concentrates, fruit, water, sugar risk management and they are audited and low-calorie sweeteners.
We also regularly so that we have the right level work with partners to manufacture our of assurance.
INSIGHT smaller brands, to introduce new packaging innovation and at peak times when we The starting point of our business is understanding require additional capacity.
We work with how best we can meet the diverse needs of our specialist transport companies to distribute consumers and customers.
We use our expertise our products rather than operate our own to ensure we are well-placed to understand fleet of vehicles.
consumer needs and identify future growth drivers so we can create shared value for our customers.
Our responsible approach We operate our factories to the highest Our responsible approach standards.
We are committed to We take a category approach to insight so that reducing the environmental impact of our we take a longer-term approach: understanding manufacturing and distribution activity and emerging trends and the wider context the targets around water, waste and carbon category operates in as well as current consumer emissions are set annually through our needs.
This enables us to build brands that A Healthier Everyday sustainable business consumers love and to deliver retail solutions programme.
We are also committed to that maximise the growth opportunity for our ensuring that all of our employees work customers now and in the future.
in a safe environment that supports their health and wellbeing and we monitor this closely across all of our sites.
Underpinned by our sustainable business programme helping to create A Healthier Everyday through actions large and small Read more Read more HEALTHIER PEOPLE HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES see pages 36-43 see pages 36-43 8 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 5 6 ACT WITH PACE BE OPEN WIN TOGETHER Shareholders 71.7m of dividends paid to shareholders in 2018.
Employees We provide jobs and salaries, creating local purchasing power.
In 2018, 165.6m was paid in salaries and wages.
Communities 70k donated to good causes through our employee community MARKETING support programmes including the We invest in world-class marketing to value of employee volunteering build fantastic brands that our consumers time and 1,500 hours of love.
As with many other consumer goods volunteering by our employees.
companies we market our brands across multiple platforms from traditional television CUSTOMER and print through to digital and social media.
Suppliers Through our deep knowledge of the soft drinks category, we use our insight, By manufacturing regionally, using Our responsible approach sourcing and manufacturing capability local and national suppliers, the We follow relevant applicable national and local to create fantastic products.
We couple beneciaries of our value creation legislation and regulation and support voluntary this with expertise and resource focused industry codes of practice, wherever possible.
on delivering our products into market Our marketing also complies with all other across different channels to drive relevant Britvic policies, such as the Ethical Government category growth and create shared Business Policy and our Responsible Marketing value with our customer partners.
Through paying taxes in the Code, whereby we do not advertise to under markets where we operate, 12s and do not advertise high sugar products Our responsible approach to under 16s.
we support the development of We take a category-led approach and use public infrastructure, healthcare, our insight to create fantastic products that consumers want to drink, working in education and local services.
partnership with our customers on joint business plans to create shared value.
Customers We build and maintain long-term, high trust relationships with our customers to co-create joint business plans.
Read more HEALTHIER PLANET see pages 36-43 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 9
