What we do This section details our purpose, goal and strategy in the context of our business model.
It also explains how we create value for our stakeholders by providing services that are integral to modern life.
Our goal Our purpose, Our goal is to drive sustainable growth in value.
Well achieve this by giving our customers a great experience and products and services goal and strategy they value.
Our purpose Our strategy Our business model is built around our purpose, which is as simple as it is To follow our purpose and achieve our goal, our strategy is built ambitious: to use the power of communications to make a better world.
around the three pillars outlined on page 29: deliYHULQJ GLHUHQWLDWHd customer experiences, investing in integrated network leadership, Sustainability, ethics and human rights and transforming our operating model.
To achieve our purpose, we must do business responsibly.
That means behaving ethically, respecting people and the environment.
The better our customers experience, the more We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact principles and were well sell and the less time and money well spend putting things right.
actively contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
And the leaner and more agile we are, and the better we manage our costs, the more we can invest in the business while maintaining a strong We have a steering group that oversees human rights governance balance sheet page 35.
Its a virtuous circle that balances short-term and policies and were committed to implementing the UN Guiding performance with long-term value creation.
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Every year we publish a statement which sets out our stance on PRGHUQ VODYHU DQG KXPDQ WUDFNLQJ And we dont tolerate bribery or corruption.
Investing in what 1RQ QDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ UHSRUWLQJ 1HZ UHJXODWLRQV RQ QRQ QDQFLDO LQIRUPDWLRQ PHDQ ZH PXVW sets us apart report on the following topics: We invest in building and maintaining communications networks in WKH 8.
DQG RYHUVHDV :H DOVR LQYHVW LQ GLHUHQWLDWHG SURGXFWV VHUYLFHV P41 Respect for human rights P54 Environmental matters and applications to run over those networks.
P43 Employee matters P57 Anti-corruption Customer expectations are rising all the time.
We believe that getting and bribery P47 Social matters customer experience right is a competitive advantage.
So were investing in our people eg more contact centre roles, more multiThere are references to our policies in these areas, along with how skilled advisors and our processes eg reducing missed appointments.
weve done against various measures, throughout the Strategic Report.
Some of the outcomes feature in the business model Some of our investments, like TV sports rights, last just a few years.
Weve listed others in the summary of our 2WKHU LQYHVWPHQWV OLNH RXU EUH EURDGEDQG QHWZRUN DUH PXFK ORQJHU QRQ QDQcial performance on page 26. term, with pay-back periods of more than a decade.
Read more in our Delivering our Purpose report.
We have a distinct combination of people, technology, content, networks and other physical assets that sets us apart from competitors.
Importantly, we also have the financial strength to keep investing in these areas while balancing short, medium and long-term interests 32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2018
