The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Executive Committee This is our Executive Committee.
It meets weekly and is chaired by the chief executive.
gavin patterson Simon lowth marc allera Bas Burger Sabine chalmers The Executive Committee Chief executive CEO, Consumer General counsel Chief financial officer CEO, Global Services provides input and Appointed as chief executive in September Appointed to the Board as chief financial Appointed February 2016 as CEO, EE and Appointed June 2017.
2013 and on the Board since June 2008. became CEO, Consumer in September 2017. officer in July 2016.
Sabine joined BT in April 2018.
Before Bas was formerly president, BT in the recommendations Gavin was previously CEO, BT Retail and Simon was CFO and executive director of Marc was formerly chief commercial officer Americas, BT Global Services.
Bas joined BT joining BT she was chief legal and corporate to support the chief from 2004 to 2008 was managing director, BG Group before the takeover by Royal for EE from 2011 to 2015.
Before EE, Marc affairs officer and company secretary of in 2008 as CEO Benelux.
Before joining Dutch Shell in February 2016.
Previously spent ten years at Three UK where he held a Anheuser-Busch InBev for 12 years.
She executive or his Before joining BT, Bas was executive BT, Gavin was managing director of the Simon was CFO and an executive director of number of senior positions, including chief also held various legal leadership roles at president and a member of the management delegate in exercising consumer division of Telewest now Virgin AstraZeneca, and an executive director of commercial officer and sales and marketing Diageo.
Sabine is qualified to practise law committee of Getronics NV, where he ran Media.
Prior to that, he spent nine years ScottishPower.
Prior to that, Simon was a director.
Prior to his 16 years experience in in England and NY State.
global sales, channels and partnerships, their authority delegated at Procter & Gamble, rising to become director of McKinsey & Company.
the mobile industry Marc was GM for Sega developing the companys international European marketing director.
by the Board to run the business.
He was also CEO and managing director of KPN Entercom Solutions.
business of the group day to day.
More specifically, the Executive Committee assists the chief executive in: developing the group strategy and budget for the Boards approval executing the strategic plan once agreed gerry mcQuade ed petter cathryn ross michael Sherman howard Watson by the Board CEO, Enterprise Corporate affairs director Director of regulatory affairs Chief strategy and transformation officer Chief technology and information officer providing assurance to the Board in Appointed CEO, Wholesale and Ventures in Appointed November 2016.
Appointed February 2016. relation to overall performance and risk March 2016 and became CEO, Enterprise in Ed was formerly deputy director of Cathryn was formerly chief executive Prior to joining BT, Michael was partner and Howard was formerly chief architect and management.
May 2018. corporate affairs at Lloyds Banking Group of Ofwat, the independent economic managing director at Boston Consulting managing director global IT systems and led All decisions are taken by the chief Gerry was formerly chief sales and and prior to that had held corporate affairs regulator for the water and waste water Group, focusing on advising clients on the technical teams behind the launch of executive, or his delegate, in keeping with marketing officer at EE responsible for roles at McDonalds Europe, McKinsey sector in England and Wales.
Cathryn is an growth strategies and operational efficiency.
BT Sport in 2013. the principle of single point accountability.
the business, wholesale and product & Company and the Blue Rubicon experienced regulatory and competition Before that, he spent nearly eight years Howard joined BT in 2011 and has 30 years Luis Alvarez, formerly CEO Global Services: development which he had overseen communications consultancy, having economist and has worked across a number as executive vice president at enterprise of telecoms experience having spent time at John Petter, formerly CEO BT Consumer: since the merger in 2010 of Orange and previously worked as a news producer of different sectors advising on economic, software company Viewlocity.
Telewest now Virgin Media and Cartesian, and Sean Williams, formerly chief strategy T-Mobile.
He joined the board of Orange in and editor at the BBC.
a telecommunications consultancy and officer left during the year.
Graham January 2008, and prior to Orange he was software company.
Sutherland, formerly CEO Business and founding director of Virgin Mobile.
Public Sector will leave in 2018 19.
Bas Burger, Cathryn Ross, Sabine Chalmers and Michael Sherman have all joined the Executive Committee.
dan Fitz clive Selley Company secretary Invitee, CEO, Openreach alison Wilcox Dan is the company secretary of Clive was appointed CEO, Openreach in HR director February 2016.
He was formerly CEO, BT Group plc.
He joined BT in April Appointed July 2015.
BT Technology, Service & Operations, 2010 as its group general counsel and CEO BT Innovate & Design and before Alison was formerly regional HR director for was appointed company secretary in that president, BT Global Services Vodafone Europe and before that, Regional November 2012.
Dan previously spent Portfolio & Service Design.
He is an HR Director for Vodafones Africa, Middle six years at Misys and 12 years invitee because the CEO of Openreach East and Asia Pacific footprint.
Alison joined at Cable & Wireless.
Dan attends all cannot be a member of the Executive Vodafone in 2006 as group director of Executive Committee meetings.
Committee under the provisions of the leadership following a career in consulting.
18 18 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2018 t 2018 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2018 t 2018 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 19 19 Our strategy Our strategy in the year had three Looking ahead, were evolving our pillars: deliver great customer strategy to build on our strengths experience, invest for growth and allow us to respond to market and transform our costs.
RX FDQ QG PRUH GHWDLO RQ SDJH 28.
They work together: the better our customers experience, the more we sell and the less time and money we spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the more we can invest in improving our customers experience and in products and services that will create growth.
Pages 21 to 25 describe our performance against the strategy.
The graphic below shows the main elements of our strategy in the year RXoOO QG PRUH GHWDLOV on our purpose and goal, in the context of our business model, on page 32.
Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal URZWK s WR GHOLYHU VXVWDLQDEOH SURWDEOH UHYHQXH JURZWK Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Our strategy Deliver great Invest for Transform customer experience growth our costs Focus on 'LHUHQWLDWHG Market Best network Fully converged multinational content, services leadership in all in the UK service provider companies and applications UK segments globally A healthy organisation Best place to work 20 BT Group plc Annual Report 2018
