Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our business model We have a geographically diversified business portfolio operating across more than 30 countries, serving six core, fragmented market sectors, many of which are growing and relatively resilient to challenging economic conditions.
This diversification and resilience allows us to mitigate the impact of shifts and changes in demand across both geographies and sectors.
We are a one-stop-shop Our sources of for non-food consumables competitive advantage Unique service offering Our unique service offering is at the heart of the Bunzl We source business model and the reason our customers choose to buy We source and procure branded, own brand and from us.
Our customised solutions enable us to add value to unbranded products globally, working with suppliers our customers operations ensuring they receive their orders to give our customers access to the best and most on-time and in-full whatever their requirements.
suitable products and solutions to meet theirneeds, taking account of their increasing sustainability Our people requirements.
Our 3,000 expert sales people supported by 2,600 locally based customer service specialists use their deep and detailed knowledge to work with customers to ensure that they receive the best possible advice on all product and service related matters.
We consolidate Our dedicated warehouse teams ensure orders are picked to a high degree of accuracy and our drivers represent Bunzl on a By applying our resources and consolidating a broad daily basis as the main face-to-face contact with our customers.
range of products into our extensive warehousing infrastructure, we are able to offer our customers an Operational structure efficient one-stop-shop solution, thereby allowing them With a decentralised operational structure, our enthusiastic, to focus on their core businesses more effectively.
experienced and knowledgeable management teams, including many former business owners, are able to focus on our customers needs in their local markets and create an entrepreneurial environment, while retaining full responsibility for the financial performance of their businesses.
We deliver Global sourcing Our delivery options includedirect site delivery, Our global sourcing capabilities, working with multinational cross-dock and warehouse replenishment programmes and local suppliers, together with the benefits of our Shanghai on a local, regional, national and international basis sourcing office, including QA and QC, allow us to provide a to get products to our customers when and where they broad range of competitively priced products, including an areneeded.
extensive range of own brand and environmentally friendly, sustainable items.
International scale Across these sectors With operations in more than 30 countries, our extensive distribution networks mean we can deliver to customers on a local, regional, national and international basis, giving them complete flexibility.
Digital capabilities Our e-commerce platforms increase the efficiency of our Foodservice Grocery Safety Cleaning operations while enhancing the experience for our customers.
& Hygiene These include options such as budgetary controls, closed specific product lists and branded portals for our customers.
Acquisition track record We have a strong track record of making and successfully integrating acquisitions, helping us to extend our geographic Retail Healthcare Other footprint while at the same time enabling our acquired businesses to continue to feel local.
10 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our sources of Creating value competitive advantage for stakeholders Our unique Customers service offering Our customers benefit from a one-stop-shop for essential products with one order, one delivery and one invoice, thereby lowering their cost of doing business pg 14 by reducing or eliminating many of the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution and reducing carbon emissions.
Our people Employees pg 36 We support equality and diversity throughoutthe organisation and have policies and procedures which are designed to allow our employees to meet their training needs, maximise their potential and provide career opportunities for progression within the business.
Investment case Shareholders pg 9 We seek to deliver good returns for our shareholders over time with sustained improvement in profits and earnings which drive long term growth in Bunzls share price and year-on-year increases in dividends.
Corporate Environment responsibility Our continued focus on operational excellence allows us to reduce both ourown and our customers environmental impact by introducing more pg 40 sustainable products and business practices and providing our customers with a single consolidated on-time and in-full delivery of multiple products.
Corporate Suppliers responsibility We partner with a variety of international, national and local suppliers, on both an exclusive and non-exclusive basis, in order to provide our pg 40 customers with the broadest possible range of products across each of our market sectors.
Corporate Communities responsibility We support charitable projects in the local communities where our businesses are based through monetary and in-kind product donations pg 40 and sponsorship for fundraising activities carried out by our employees.
