Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Board of directors Promoting the Groups long term success and delivering sustained increases in stakeholder value, underpinned by the highest standards of corporate governance, continue to be key priorities for the Board.
Philip Rogerson Frank van Zanten Chairman Chief Executive Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board in January 2010 and became Chairman Executive director since February 2016 and Chief Executive in March 2010.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
and member of the Nomination Committee from April 2016.
Experience Experience He was an executive director of BG Group plc formerly British Gas He joined Bunzl in 1994 when Bunzl acquired his family owned plc from 1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman.
Since then he business in the Netherlands and he subsequently assumed has been both a non-executive director and Chairman of a number responsibility for a number of businesses in other countries.
of companies and is currently Chairman of fide La Rue plc and a In 2002 he became Chief Executive Officer of PontMeyer NV, a non-executive director of Blancco Technology Group plc.
listed company in the Netherlands, before rejoining Bunzl in 2005 as the Managing Director of the Continental Europe business area.
He is a non-executive director of Grafton Group plc.
Brian May Finance Director Appointment Finance Director since 2006.
Experience A chartered accountant, he qualified with KPMG and joined Bunzl Committee membership in 1993 as Internal Audit Manager.
Subsequently he became Member of the Audit Committee Group Treasurer before taking up the role of Finance Director, Member of the Remuneration Committee Europe & Australasia in 1996 and Finance Director designate in Member of the Nomination Committee 2005.
He is a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC.
Independent director 56 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our Board continues to provide independent scrutiny and challenge, while promoting a strong culture of openness and constructive debate.
Philip Rogerson, Chairman Lloyd Pitchford Eugenia Ulasewicz Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointment Appointment Non-executive director since March 2017 and Chairman of the Non-executive director since 2011.
Experience Experience After holding a number of senior retail positions with Having previously held a number of senior finance positions with Bloomingdales, Galeries Lafayette and Saks Fifth Avenue, BG Group plc, including five years as Group Financial Controller, she joined Burberry Group plc and was President of Burberry, he subsequently joined Intertek Group plc where he was Chief Americas, one of three global regions of Burberry Group plc Financial Officer from 2010 to 2014.
Since 2014 he has been Chief which includes North and Latin Americas, from 1998 until 2013.
Financial Officer of Experian plc.
She is a non-executive director of Signet Jewelers Limited, Vince Holding Corp. and Hudson Group.
Vanda Murray OBE Stephan Nanninga Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Appointment Appointment Non-executive director since 2015, Senior Independent Director Non-executive director since May 2017. and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Experience After holding a number of positions with Sonepar and Royal Dutch Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc from 2001 to 2004, Shell, he subsequently became Managing Director, Distribution she subsequently became UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC Europe of CRH plc in 1999.
He then joined SHV Holdings NV in from 2004 to 2006 and was appointed OBE in 2002 for Services to 2007, where he was initially responsible for the Makro and Dyas Industry and Export.
She is Chair of Marshalls plc and a nonbusinesses, before becoming Chief Executive in 2014, a position he executive director of Redrow plc.
He is an executive director of Dutch Star Companies ONE N. V. and a non-executive director of IMCD N. V. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 57
