Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other statutory information Annual General Meeting Rights and obligations attaching These authorities are valid until the The Notice convening the Companys toshares conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and the Annual General Meeting AGM, to be held Subject to the provisions of the Companies directors again propose to seek equivalent at The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Act 2006 and without prejudice to any authorities at such AGM.
Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday rightsattached to any existing shares, the 17April 2019 at 11.00 am, is set out in Company may resolve by ordinary resolution Restrictions on transfer of shares aseparate letter from the Chairman to issue shares with such rights and Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares to shareholders.
restrictions as set out in such resolution or by its directors, persons discharging ifthere is no such resolution or so far as it managerial responsibilities, certain Dividends does not make specific provision as the employees of the Company and, in each An interim dividend of 15.2p was paid on Board may decide.
Subject to the provisions case, any persons closely associated with 2January 2019 in respect of 2018 and the of the Companies Act 2006 and of any them, are subject to the Companys Share directors recommend a final dividend of resolution of the Company passed pursuant Dealing Code.
35.0p, making a total for the year of 50.2p thereto and without prejudice to any rights per share 2017: 46.0p.
Dividend details are attached to existing shares, the Board is duly Certain restrictions, which are customary for given in Note 18 to the consolidated financial authorised to issue and allot, grant options a listed company, apply to transfers of shares statements.
Subject to shareholder approval over or otherwise dispose of the Companys in the Company.
The Board may refuse to at the 2019 AGM, the final dividend will be shares on such terms and conditions and at register an instrument of transfer of any paid on 1 July 2019 to those shareholders such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time share which is not a fully paid share and of a onthe register at the close of business on theshare capital of the Company is divided certificated share at its discretion unless it is: 24May 2019. into different classes of shares, the rights lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at attached to any class may be varied or the offices of the Companys registrar or Share capital abrogated by special resolution passed at a such other place as the Board may specify The Company has a single class of share separate general meeting of such holders.
and is accompanied by the certificate for capital which is divided into ordinary Subject to the rights attached to any existing the shares to which it relates and such 1 shares of 32 p each which rank pari shares, rights attached to shares will be 7 other evidence as the Board may passu in respect of participation and voting deemed to be varied by the reduction of reasonably require to show the right of rights.
The shares are in registered form, capital paid up on the shares and by the thetransferor to make the transfer: are fully paid up and are quoted on the allotment of further shares ranking in London Stock Exchange.
In addition, priority in respect of dividend or capital in respect of only one class of share: and the Company operates a Level 1 American orwhich confer on the holders more in favour of not more than four transferees.
Depositary Receipt programme with Citibank favourable voting rights than the firstN.
A. under which the Companys shares are mentioned shares, but will not otherwise Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated traded on the over-the-counter market in the bedeemed to be varied by the creation share may be refused in the circumstances form of American Depositary Receipts.
set out in the uncertificated securities rules, and where, in the case of a transfer to joint Details of changes to the issued share capital Power to issue and allot shares holders, the number of joint holders to whom during the year are set out in Note 17 to the The directors are generally and the uncertificated share is to be transferred consolidated financial statements.
unconditionally authorised under the exceeds four.
authorities granted at the 2018 AGM to allot Bunzl Group General Employee shares in the Company up to approximately In addition, no instrument of transfer for Benefit Trust one third of the Companys issued share certificated shares shall be registered if the The trustee of the Bunzl Group General capital or two thirds in respect of a rights transferor has been served with a restriction Employee Benefit Trust the EBT holds issue.
The directors were also given the notice as defined in the Companys Articles shares in respect of employee share power to allot ordinary shares for cash up of Association the Articles after failure to options and awards that have not been toa limit representing approximately 10% provide the Company with information exercised orvested.
The EBT abstains ofthe Companys issued share capital as concerning certain interests in the from voting inrespect of these shares.
at12March 2018, without regard to the Companys shares required to be provided The trustee hasagreed to waive the right pre-emption provisions of the Companies under the Companies Act 2006, unless the to dividend payments on shares held Act 2006 however, more than 5% can only transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant within the EBT.
Details of the shares so held be used in connection with an acquisition to an arms length sale.
The Board has the are set out inNote 17 to the consolidated orspecified capital investment.
power to procure that uncertificated shares financial statements.
are converted into certificated shares and No such shares were issued or allotted under kept in certificated form for as long as the these authorities in 2018, nor is there any Board requires.
current intention to do so, other than to satisfy share options under the Companys The Company is not aware of any share option schemes and, if necessary, agreements between shareholders that tosatisfy the consideration payable for mayresult in any restriction of the transfer businesses to be acquired.
98 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Restrictions on voting rights held in the third calendar year after which Biographical details of all of the current A member shall not be entitled to vote, he or she was appointed or last appointed directors are set outon pages 56 and 57. unless the Board otherwise decides, at any and any director who has held office with Notwithstanding the retirement byrotation general meeting or class meeting in respect the Company, other than employment or provisions in the Articles, eachofthe of any shares held by them if any call or executive office, for a continuous period of directors will retire and offerthemselves other sums payable remain unpaid.
nine years or more at the date of the AGM is for re-election at the forthcoming AGM Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
The Board in accordance with theUK Corporate In addition, no member shall be entitled to may also appoint a person willing to act as Governance Code.
vote if he has been served with a restriction adirector during the year either to fill a notice after failing to provide the Company vacancy or as an additional director but Directors interests in the Companys with information concerning certain sothat the total number of directors shall ordinary shares are shown in Note 20 to the interests in the Companys shares required notatany time exceed 15.
However, such consolidated financial statements.
None of to be provided under the Companies Act appointee shall only hold office until the the directors was materially interested in any 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or nextAGM of the Company.
contract of significance with the Company by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a orany of its subsidiary undertakings during deadline for submission of proxy forms In addition to any power to remove a director or at the end of 2018.
Information relating to of48hours before the relevant meeting, from office conferred by company law, the directors service agreements and their 24hours before a poll is taken if such poll the Company may also by special resolution remuneration for the year and details of istaken more than 48 hours after it was remove a director from office before the thedirectors share options under the demanded or during the meeting at which expiration of his or her period of office under Companys share option schemes and the poll was demanded if the poll is not taken the Articles.
awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan straight away but is taken not more than and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme 48hours after it was demanded.
The office of a director shall also be vacated are set out in the Directors remuneration pursuant to the Articles if the director: report on pages 73 to 97.
Purchase of own shares resigns by giving notice to the Company At the 2018 AGM, shareholders gave Powers of the directors oris asked to resign by all of the other theCompany authority to purchase up Subject to the Articles, the Companies directors who are not less than three toamaximum amount equivalent to Act 2006 and any directions given by the innumber: or approximately 10% of its issued share Company by special resolution, the business capital.
During the year ended 31 December is or has been suffering from mental or of the Company is managed by the Board 2018, the Company did not purchase any of physical ill health and the Board resolves who may exercise all powers of the its own shares pursuant to this authority or that his or her office be vacated: or Company.
The Board may, by power of the authority granted at the 2017 AGM and attorney or otherwise, appoint any person is absent without permission from Board no shares have been purchased between orpersons to be the agent or agents of the meetings for six consecutive months and 31December 2018 and 25 February 2019.
Company for such purposes and on such the Board resolves that his or her office be Asa result, directors again propose to seek conditions as the Board determines.
vacated: or the equivalent authority at the 2019 AGM.
becomes bankrupt or compounds with Directors indemnities Directors hisor her creditors generally: or Indemnities were in force throughout 2018 Directors may be elected by ordinary and remain in force as at the date of this is prohibited by law from being a director: resolution at a duly convened general report under which the Company has agreed or meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under to indemnify the directors and the Company the Articles, the minimum number of ceases to be a director by virtue of any Secretary, in addition to other senior directors shall be two and the maximum provisions of company law or is removed executives who are directors of subsidiaries shall be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, from office pursuant to the Articles.
of the Company, to the extent permitted each director is required to retire at the AGM by law and the Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of Substantial shareholdings theCompany or any of its subsidiaries.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in the issued share capital of the Company, in accordance with rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Date of Number of % of issued Shareholder notification shares share capital FMR LLC 09.11.18 22,177,887 6.59 BlackRock, Inc. 06.03.17 17,257,793 5.14 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 21.03.18 16,351,046 4.87 APG Asset Management N. V. 24.06.15 10,265,263 3.06 No other notifications have been received between 31 December 2018 and 25 February 2019.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 99 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other statutory information continued Amendment of articles Significant agreements Resolutions are to be proposed at the Any amendments to the Articles may be The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, forthcoming AGM for the re-appointment made in accordance with the provisions of Bunzl Finance plc, has a number of bilateral  LLP as auditors the Companies Act 2006 by way of special loan facilities with a range of different of the Company, at a rate of remuneration resolution of the Companys shareholders.
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed tobe determined by the directors.
by the Company, are in substantially the Environmental and social responsibility same form and are repayable at the option of Future developments within the Group The directors recognise that the Company is the lender in the event of a change of control An indication of likely future developments part of a wider community and that it has a of the Company.
Similar change of control in the Groups business can be found in the responsibility to act in a way that respects provisions in relation to the Company are Strategic report on pages 1 to 55. the environment and social and community included in the US dollar, sterling and euro issues.
Further information relating to the US private placement notes and the senior Strategic report and Directors report Companys approach to these matters is set unsecured bond which is listed on the Pages 1 to 55 inclusive consist of the out in the Corporate responsibility report on London Stock Exchange, all of which have Strategic report and pages 56 to 100 pages 40 to 50. been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and inclusive consist of the Directors report.
the Company and are also guaranteed by These reports have been drawn up and Greenhouse gas emissions theCompany.
presented in accordance with, and in Information relating to greenhouse gas reliance upon, applicable English company emissions has been set out in the Corporate Political donations law and any liability of the directors in responsibility report onpages 40 to 50.
During 2018, no contributions were made connection withthese reports shall be for political purposes.
subject to the limitations and restrictions Employment policies provided by suchlaw.
The employment policies of the Group have Use of financial instruments been developed to meet the needs of its Information on the use of financial The Company has chosen, in accordance different business areas and the locations instruments can be found in the Financial with section 414C 11 of the Companies in which they operate worldwide, embodying review on pages 20 to 25 and in the Notes to Act 2006, to include certain matters in its the principles of equal opportunity.
The the financial statements on pages 107 to 147.
Strategic report that would otherwise be Group has standards of business conduct required to be disclosed in this Directors with which it expects all its employees to Disclosures required under UK Listing report.
These matters are referred to above comply.
4 and are explained in more detail in the ofits employees in the performance of Apart from the dividend waiver which Strategic report on pages 1 to 55. thebusiness in which they are employed has been issued in respect of shares held andaims to achieve a sense of shared by the EBT referred to in Note 17 to the Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe commitment.
In addition to a regular consolidated financial statements on page harbour limits the liability of directors in magazine and the Companys intranet, 135, there are no disclosures required to be respect of statements in and omissions which provide a variety of information made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4. from a strategic report and a directors on activities and developments within the report.
Under English law, the directors Group and incorporate half year and annual External auditors would be liable to the Company, but not to financial reports, announcements are Each of the directors in office at the date any third party, if the Strategic report or the periodically circulated to give details of ofapproval of this report confirms that: Directors report contain errors as a result corporate and employee matters, together of recklessness or knowing misstatement so far as the director is aware, there is no with a number of subsidiary or business or dishonest concealment of a material fact, relevant audit information of which the area publications dealing with activities butwould not otherwise be liable.
Group and the Companys auditors are inspecific parts of the Group.
unaware: and The Strategic report and the Directors It is the Groups policy that disabled the director has taken all steps that he or reportwere approved by the Board on applicants should be considered for she ought to have taken as a director in 25February 2019. employment and career development on order to make the director aware of any thebasis of their aptitudes and abilities.
relevant audit information and to establish On behalf of the Board Employees who become disabled during that the Group and the Companys auditors their working life will be retained in are aware of that information.
Paul Hussey employment wherever possible and given Secretary help with rehabilitation and training.
This confirmation is given and should be 25 February 2019 interpreted in accordance with the provisions Further information relating to the Groups of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. employees can be found in the Our people section of this Annual Report on pages 36 to 39.
100 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Financial statements 102 Consolidated income statement 103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated balance sheet 105 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 106 Consolidated cash flow statement 107 Notes 148 Company balance sheet 149 C ompany statement of changes in equity 150 Notes to the Company financial statements 155 Statement of directors responsibilities 156 Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc 162 Shareholder information 169 Five year review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 101
