Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our strategy KPIs We are continuing to pursue our long established, consistent, pg 18 proven and successful compounding strategy in order to create value for our stakeholders and through which we have built leading positions in a number of market sectors in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Organic Acquisition Operating model growth growth improvements We are constantly looking to We seek out businesses that We continually strive to improve the grow Bunzl organically, both by satisfy key criteria, including having quality of our operations and to make expanding and developing our good financial returns in resilient our businesses more efficient and business with existing customers and growing markets, while at the sustainable.
We do this by investing and by gaining new business with same time providing opportunities in new IT systems, digital capabilities, additional customers.
to extract further value aspart warehouse facilities and routing systems of the Bunzl Group.
as well as implementing and sharing best practice operational procedures.
Winning new customers Key acquisition parameters Global purchasing By showcasing our unique service In considering acquisitions, we will By using our global scale with suppliers, offering, our sales specialists are able to only target businesses which meet we obtain purchasing synergies which show potential customers that we can specific parameters.
These include we share with our customers in the form reduce or eliminate many of the hidden businesses: selling goods not for resale of competitive selling prices.
costs of in-house procurement and to a fragmented customer base: whose Consolidating warehouses distribution or fulfil their needs more products represent a small percentage As leases come to an end we are able effectively than their current suppliers.
of total customer spend: whose markets to review our warehouse footprint.
have scope for further consolidation Expanding our offering and synergies: and with attractive Sharing best practice Once we have established a good financial returns.
We use our experience and expertise relationship with a customer, by using from our international businesses to our knowledge of the customers needs, Growth in existing countries share best practice across the Group.
we aim to deepen and develop that Our markets are very fragmented and as relationship.
This can be achieved by a result there are numerous opportunities Environment expanding our product offering either to develop through acquisition in the We focus on environmental initiatives with branded or own brand products or countries where we already have a such as energy efficient lighting and providing additional value added services.
We do this by further reducing our waste packaging, which penetrating the sectors in which we also lead to cost savings.
Market leading customers operate or by acquiring a business in Our customers are often the market Routing and safety systems a sector in which we do not currently leaders in their chosen sector and By installing routing and safety systems, operate within that country.
therefore, as their businesses grow, we are able to minimise distances the need for our products and service Growth in new countries travelled and encourage safe and efficient solutions also increases, thereby We are truly international, having grown driving practices, thereby reducing fuel contributing to our organic growth.
from a business with operations in 12 and other transport costs.
countries in 2003 to one with a presence IT systems in more than 30 countries today.
However, We are continually upgrading our IT there are a number of potentially systems and increasing functionality attractive countries where we do not to improve our customer service through currently operate, which gives us areas such as management reporting potential for further future growth.
Digital capabilities Our state-of-the-art e-commerce solutions have increased the efficiency of our operations and the ease of doing business for our customers.
