STRATEGIC REPORT RISK AND VIABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH TO RISK review of these controls is provided through internal Our strategy takes into account risks, as well as governance processes and the work of the Group functions opportunities, which need to be actively managed.
Effective is overseen by executive management, particularly the work risk management is essential to executing our strategies, of our Group Risk and Assurance Team and the achieving sustainable shareholder value, protecting the Management RiskCommittee.
brand and ensuring good governance.
Our risk management process is an integral part of our The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the business, which is coordinated by our Group Risk and nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take Assurance Team, reporting to our Chief Operating and inachieving our strategic objectives the Boards risk Financial Officer.
Risk management activities include appetite, and challenging managements implementation identifying risks, undertaking risk assessments and ofeffective systems of risk identification, assessment determining mitigating actions.
reviewed by Internal Audit and other control functions, which provide assurance to our Management Risk The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility Committee, and ultimately to our Board of Directors for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal andBoard Committees, as shown in the diagram below.
controls and risk management arrangements.
Ongoing BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES Responsible for regular oversight of Monitors risks through Board Audit Committee reviews risk management, for annual strategic processes Strategy Review, Audit effectiveness of risk management risk review and setting the Groups Committee, management reports and process with support from Internal risk appetite deep dives of selected risk areas Audit MANAGEMENT RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRED BY CHIEF OPERATING & FINANCIAL OFFICER Reviews external and internal Meets at least three times per year Identifies changes to significant risks environment for emerging risks and reports key findings to the Audit and the effectiveness and adequacy Committee of mitigating actions to achieve Performs deep dive reviews of agreed risk tolerance levels principal risks Cross-functional attendees, encompassing senior management Reviews risk register updates from from IT, Finance, Legal, HR, Supply risk owners Chain and Retail GROUP RISK & FUNCTIONS AND INTERNAL AUDIT AND ASSURANCE TEAM BUSINESS RISK OWNERS COMPLIANCE FUNCTIONS Establishes risk management Carry out day-to-day risk Review risk management framework management activities processperiodically Facilitates updates to risk registers Identify and assess risk and Functions provide independent implement action to mitigate risk assurance to management and Provides resources and training to within their area Board on risk status Health & support process Safety, Legal, Brand Protection, Assign owners to risks to update Quality, Asset and Profit Prepares Board and Management risk registers Protection, Responsibility Risk Committee updates 54 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK APPETITE OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS This year, we have strengthened our definition of risk Our risk management process has identified a broad range appetite and integrated this into our wider risk management of risks and uncertainties, which we believe could adversely framework to support better decision making.
This exercise impact the profitability or prospects of the Group.
Our was reviewed and validated by the Board and, going principal risks are defined as those that we regard as the forward, will be performed on an annual basis.
most relevant to our business.
These are the risks that we see as most material to our performance and could We will pursue growth and are prepared to accept a certain threaten our business model or the future long-term level of risk to firmly establish our position in luxury fashion performance, solvency or liquidity of Burberry.
and inspire our customers with our unique British attitude.
We operate in a competitive, dynamic sector with Our risk management framework is structured along long-term growth potential.
Within categories of risk thefollowing categories of risk: Strategic and Financial, ourtolerance for risk may vary.
Each principal risk is linked to one of these categories and may impact one or Complying with applicable laws and doing the right thing is more of our strategicpillars.
part of our culture and underpins our strategic ambition.
In exploring risks and opportunities, we prioritise the interests We have updated the descriptions and mitigating actions and safety of our customers and employees and we seek to ofseveral of our principal risks to reflect the new strategic protect the long-term value and reputation of the brand, priorities that have been announced.
We have also maximising commercial benefits to support responsible and reviewed whether the level of risk associated with sustained growth, and in doing so minimise risk.
eachofthe principal risks is increasing or decreasing comparedto last year and noted new risks which do nothave a comparison.
55 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic and financial risks EXECUTION OF STRATEGIC PLAN Focused execution of the strategy through our six Strategic Pillars: Product, Communication, Distribution, Digital, Operational Excellence and Inspired People is key to sustainable shareholder value.
Success depends on the value and relevance of our brand to global luxury consumers around the world and our ability toinnovate.
Failure to execute these strategies successfully could result in under-delivery of the expected growth, productivity and efficiency targets.
This could have a significant impact on the value of the business and market confidence that we can deliver the strategy.
We operate in the global luxury market, where competition is intensifying.
Todays luxury customers demand creativity, curation, excitement, innovation and personalisation at every turn.
Our ability to make the right strategic investment decisions in response to these changes is vital to our success.
Change from FY 2016 17: During the year we have focused on building the team to develop and deliver our strategy and detailed plans.
LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT All strategic pillars.
Throughout the year we have focused on building the capabilities to develop and deliver our strategy.
The Executive Team is RISK TOLERANCE accountable for the conduct of these programmes and delivery of We will pursue growth and accept a certain level outcomes in accordance with our Board-approved plan.
of risk toignite brand heat and firmly establish A Transformation Management Office coordinates delivery of the our position in luxuryfashion.
programme, monitoring risks of each of the major programmes and We approve capital investment in strategic tracking progress and benefits.
projects and accept moderate to high earnings During FY 2017 18 we introduced a new assortment of products and volatility in pursuit of innovation and profitable full looks to inspire the new fashion consumer, launched our new growth, balancing a reasonable return on capital line of leather goods and appointed a new Chief Creative Officer.
with a reasonable level of commercial risk within We have increased our focus on digital and social channels.
We the approved capital allocation framework.
started our content revolution in 2017 and re-launched our website, burberry.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS Our Inspired People initiative includes targeted programmes to Firmly positioning the brand in luxury is inform and engage employees about the strategy, develop dependent on creating new and innovative leadership capabilities and drive the right behaviours.
luxury products that excite our global Our Operational Excellence programme is in progress as customers.
If we are unable to innovate demonstrated by the successful opening of Burberry Business effectively and introduce these new products Services in Leeds.
to the marketwith speed, our sales or margins There is a clear IT strategy prepared by the Chief Information could be adversely affected.
Officer and IT Leadership Team comprised of a portfolio of IT Our development and deployment of projects linked to the Companys strategicobjectives.
contentthrough communication channels doesnot create sufficient brandheat globally.
We do not achieve the required organisational alignment and enhance our capabilities and culture to compete and grow effectively at thepace required to deliver thetargets.
Failure to sufficiently transform operational processes undermines our ability to delivertherequired cost savings and marginimprovements.
Failure to deliver the technology innovation required to empower changes in the Groups business model and to deliver the anticipated benefits from key investment strategies in Digital, Retail and Group operations.
56 STRATEGIC REPORT FOREIGN EXCHANGE Volatility in foreign exchange rates could have a significant impact on the Groups reported results.
Burberry is exposed to uncertainty through foreign exchange movements.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Volatility in foreign exchange rates may impact The Group seeks to hedge anticipated foreign currency our overall financial performance.
transactional cash flows using financial instruments.
These are mainly in the Groups centralised supply chain and wholesale RISK TOLERANCE business.
The Group does not hedge intra-group foreign currency The Group does not currently seek to manage transactions at present.
structural foreign exchange risk relating to The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of intercompany transactions with its overseas non-Sterling subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for reporting retail operations.
purposes: we have only entered into modest transactions for this purpose in the current and previous year.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS The Group monitors the overall impact of unhedged exchange The Group operates on a global basis and movements and provides guidance to shareholders of the effect of earns revenues, incurs costs and makes exchange rate movements on a quarterly basis.
investments in a number of currencies.
The Groups financial results are reported in Sterling.
Most reported revenues are earned in non-Sterling currencies, with a significant proportion of costs in Sterling.
Therefore, changes in exchange rates which are driven by several factors, such as global economic trends, Brexit or other developments, can impact the Groups revenues, margins, profits and cash flows.
57 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational risks LOSS OF DATA OR CYBER ATTACK A cyber attack results in a system outage, impacting core operations and or results in a major data loss leading to reputational damage and financial loss.
The Groups technology environment is critical to success.
A robust control environment helps decrease the risks to core business operations and or major data loss.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Having a resilient technology landscape is Established a cross-functional Cyber Security Steering Group with integral to delivering our Operational Excellence Executive membership and sponsorship.
Continued investment in the cyber security programme and completion of independent risk assessments to validate the RISK TOLERANCE strategy and identify capabilities required to achieve the Protecting the brand and its reputation globally appropriate levels of security.
is at the heart of everything we do.
We have a Cyber security status reporting through monthly scorecards low tolerance and take a risk averse approach, reported to Executive and IT Management.
adopting a strategy to avoid or mitigate any Security Monitoring, which provides monitoring of the network and reputational brand risk.
computers 24 7, 365 days a year, supported by robust security incident response processes.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS Creation of an Information Security Advisory function toembed Denial of service resulting in disruption security in new projects and initiatives.
Development of a Security Training and Awareness campaign rolled An external hacker exploits a security out to employees.
vulnerability resulting in a loss of system GDPR and Social Media Privacy Steering Group, a cross-functional control and or major data loss.
group that meets monthly to reviewdata controls around existing A malicious insider abuses privileged access systems as well asassessthe potential data risks from both a legal togain entry to sensitive information and or andreputational perspective associated with new IT, Marketing, conduct .
Retail and Digital initiatives across the Group.
Malware results in a loss of system control Creation of the Data Protection office to monitor internal causing business disruption and or major processes and ensure policies are adhered to inrespect of the dataloss.
collection, security, storage, retention and privacy of data.
Fines due to failure to prepare for the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR.
58 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE Inability to attract, motivate, develop and retain our people to perform to the best of their ability in order to meet our strategic objectives.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Delivery of our strategy relies on our ability to Our Board and Audit Committee regularly review key talent and ensure our people continue to be driven and resource risks.
inspired to deliver outstanding results for the Global campaign, run by our leaders, to inform and engage our Group.
This is done through fostering a dynamic people around the strategy and behaviours.
and inclusive culture where all employees feel Codification and roll-out of aligned Burberry Behaviours, engaged: empowering and equipping our leaders: embedded in performance management and incorporated into strengthening capabilities and expanding our strategy campaign.
talent plans: simplifying how we work: and driving A global employee engagement survey was carried out this year with positive change and a more sustainable future specific action plans now in progress to address the results.
Focus across every part of our Groups footprint.
on visible engagement moments including Burberry Disrupted pilot and global CEO Town Hall for strategy launch.
RISK TOLERANCE Creation of, and execution against, capability maps including new We recognise the value and importance of hires to address immediate priority gaps.
successfully delivering our Inspired People Introduction of simplified, more effective new performance strategy and therefore have a low tolerance for management process across the business.
Roll out of Powerful Conversations training to upskill line manager coaching capability and drive performance.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS A new leadership development programme has been built around Failure to engage or equip our teams to deliver Burberry Behaviours, to engage and equip leaders first our strategy, or address key capability gaps.
Failure to build the right capabilities and Our Executive Team ensures there is a competitive total reward behaviours in our leadership population.
offering, both financial and non-financial, to retain our people and Loss of critical talent knowledge to attract new hires.
unmanageable levels of attrition due to ongoing transition period changefatigue.
The long-term impact of Brexit on the Groups EU workforce is still unknown.
59 STRATEGIC REPORT IT OPERATIONS IT Operations fail to support critical processes across the Company including Retail, Digital and Group functions such as Supply Chain and Finance.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT All strategic pillars.
A strengthened team across the IT function has been put in place with clearer alignment of the IT teams to the strategy, the business RISK TOLERANCE functions and operations.
In operating our business and managing the Controls to maintain the continuity of the Groups IT systems are in possible disruption to our IT operations, we have place, including business continuity and IT recovery plans which a low tolerance forrisk.
would be implemented in the event of a major failure.
A tested Group incident management framework is in place to EXAMPLES OF RISKS review, report and close high-impact events.
Failure to provide technology platforms Programmes that will improve ITs ability to support operations thatmeet customer demands and support arein place with a clear portfolio of IT projects linked to the innovation can result infailure to deliver Companys strategic objectives.
Delivery of these projects thestrategy and loss of revenue.
isoverseen by our IT Portfolio Forum which regularly Failure to provide stable and resilient monitorsprogress.
technology platforms that meet business demands can result in failure to deliver the strategy and negatively impact operations dueto poor system performance and or system outages.
60 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE The success of our business over the long term will depend on the social and environmental sustainability of our operations, the resilience of our supply chain and our ability to manage any potential climate change impacts.
To address long-term sustainability challenges and understand potential impacts of climate change on our business, in both operational and financial terms, an exercise is in progress, facilitated by a third party, to explore future trends and climate change scenarios and consider how they could affect our business model.
This exercise will inform the development of cross-functional action plans to help mitigate long-term risks and future-proof our business.
Change from FY 2016 17: New LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Our commitment to being an industry leader Our Chief People, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer is inresponsible, sustainable luxury is embedded responsible for ethical trading, community investment and inour Product and Inspired People strategic environmental sustainability matters and regularly reports on these pillars.
This underpins and supports ourstrategic topics to the Management Risk Committee and the Board.
focus to establish ourselves firmly in luxury A new responsibility strategy was launched in June 2017, setting fashion and deliver sustainable, long-term value.
ambitious five-year goals: to drive positive change through all products, to become carbon neutral, to revalue waste, and to positively impact one million people by 2022.
RISK TOLERANCE Long-standing responsibility programmes are continuously We have a low tolerance for risk when reviewed and improved.
Our Ethical Trading Programme focuses on protectingthe human and environmental ensuring labour and human rights standards are met, while our new resources we depend on.
However, given the strategy takes us beyond compliance to enhance worker wellbeing long-term nature of some sustainability risks and and livelihoods in our supply chain.
Our Energy & Water Reduction the significant level of uncertainty associated Programme continues to drive resource efficiency in our direct and with their occurrence and potential impact, we indirect operations, while our new strategy includes a commitment accept that some risks are inevitable.
We are to switch to 100% renewable energy by 2022. therefore focused on helping to minimise global Alternative, high quality and sustainable materials are being risks while building resilience in our operations continuously explored and used in our product range.
Burberry Foundation partnership with the Royal College of Art focuses on driving innovation and creating more sustainable EXAMPLES OF RISKS materials and processes for our industry.
Resource scarcity, coupled with increasing As part of our new responsibility strategy for 2022, we aim to demand, could affect production, availability, positively impact one million people in the communities sustaining quality and cost of raw materials.
To achieve this, we have supported the Burberry Increased frequency of extreme weather Foundation in setting up long-term community programmes with events, from floods to droughts, could cause leading organisations, focused on enhancing youth employability, disruption in our supply chain and impact the community cohesion and sustainable farming.
sourcing of raw materials, as well as the production and distribution of finished goods.
Increased regulation and more stringent environmental standards could impact our business by affecting production costs and flexibility of operations.
Our industry is sustained by many agricultural and manufacturing communities around the world.
Failure to support them in preserving key skills and building more sustainable livelihoods could cause social, economic and operational challenges, ranging from community tensions and disruption to production, to a reduced talent pool.
61 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS INTERRUPTION A major incident at one of the Groups main locations, at its suppliers or affecting key products, which significantly interrupts the business.
This could be caused by a wide range of events including natural catastrophe, fire, terrorism, or quality control failures.
Change from FY 2016 17: This risk has increased due to the expansion at the Groups largest distribution centre.
LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Our Product and Distribution strategies enable We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and us to operate effectively andefficiently, safety of our employees and products and to deal with major delivering  through incidents, including business continuity and disaster recovery.
continuity of supply ofcompliant products and The Group continues to evolve its supply chain organisational services of the highest quality toour customers.
design to develop its manufacturing base, reducing dependence on Ensuring our ability to continually operate key key sites and vendors.
sites and factories to develop, manufacture, A Group incident management framework is in place to ensure that distribute and sell our products is a key incidents are reported and managed effectively.
our Incident Management Teams managed 34 incidents in the year.
Ten of these related to severe weather warnings, including RISK TOLERANCE Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in the USA.
Nine related to potential We have a low tolerance for risk in this terrorist incidents in cities where we have stores or employees and area, particularly in respect of product safety we moved quickly to ensure our customers, employees and assets and quality.
The remainder covered a range of more minor issues including loss of utilities.
In addition, our Group EXAMPLES OF RISKS Incident Management Team took part in training and incident Burberry operates two owned factories and a management exercises involving large parts of the Group, our global network of storage and distribution customers, shareholders and media relations function.
These face typical property risks, such tested during the year were found to be effective.
as fires, floods and terrorism.
Our product suppliers and vendors are subject to a quality control Burberry works with several suppliers of luxury programme which includes regular site inspections and goods who would be difficult to replace independent product testing.
Their loss could interrupt core Robust security arrangements are in place across our store network products or a seasonal range.
to protect people and products in case of security incidents.
A serious product quality issue could result in Full business continuity plans are in place for our ten main sites a productrecall.
including the three major distribution centres and our two factories.
Business continuity plans have been established and tested at Burberry Business Services in Leeds.
The Groups key IT systems are protected to prevent and minimise any potential interruption.
This includes resilient design and the provision of disaster recovery services to continue operating within pre-agreed times in case of a major incident.
Our plans as tested during the year were found to be effective.
Management regularly review and manage business continuity and disaster recovery risks recognising that these plans cannot always ensure the uninterrupted operation of the business, particularly in the short term.
A comprehensive insurance programme is in place to offset the financial consequences of insured events, including fire, flood, natural catastrophes and product liabilities.
62 STRATEGIC REPORT Compliance risks REGULATORY RISK & ETHICAL ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum of national and regional laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
These include product safety, trademarks, competition, employee and customer health & safety, data, corporate governance, employment and tax.
Changes to laws and regulations or a major compliance breach could have a material impact on the business.
Change from FY 2016 17: This risk has increased due to the increasing regulatory requirements in the year, e. g. General Data Protection Regulations GDPR.
LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Compliance with applicable laws and regulations The Group monitors and seeks to continuously improve processes and doing the right thing underlie all our to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, strategicpillars.
distributors and agents comply with the Groups contractual termsand conditions, its ethical and business policies and RISK TOLERANCE relevantlegislation.
In complying with laws and regulations, including Specialist teams at corporate and regional level, supported by customer, employee safety and bribery and third-party specialists where required, are responsible for ensuring corruption, we have a low tolerance for risk.
employees are aware of regulations relevant to their roles.
Assurance processes are in place to monitor compliance in a EXAMPLES OF RISKS number of key risk areas, with results being reported to our Ethics Regulatory non-compliance.
Committee, Management Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
Failure by the Group or associated third We have an established framework of policies that aim to drive best parties to act in an ethical manner consistent practice across our direct and indirect operations, including our with ourcode of conduct and our Responsible Business Principles and Global Environmental Policy.
responsibility strategy, for example with regard Policies are available at www.
com, are owned by senior to modelwellbeing.
leadership, issued to all supply chain partners and implementation Non-compliance with labour, human rights and monitored on a regular basis.
environmental standards across our own We have established a GDPR Steering Committee to oversee operations and extended supply chain would compliance with GDPR legislation.
go against our Responsible Business Principles International tax reform is a key focus of attention.
and could result in financial penalties, Roll out of annual mandatory training to all employees and to disruption in production and reputational targeted functions to ensure awareness and compliance with our damage to ourbusiness.
policies governing anti-bribery and anti-corruption ABAC, insider Failure to prepare for the GDPR.
dealing, annual conflict declarations, including, anti-bribery and Tax is a complex area where laws and their anti-corruption training, insider dealing, annual conflict interpretations are changing regularly leading declarations, criminal finances, anti-money laundering and privacy.
to the risk of unexpected tax and financial Our culture and policies encourage employees to speak up and lossexposures.
report any issues without fear of retribution.
A global confidential employee helpline is in place in substantially all countries where we have retail and corporate locations, and where it is legally permitted.
All calls and emails are logged and independently reviewed and followed up.
During the year 110 cases were receivedand the results and themes are reviewed at the Ethics Committee.
No significant issues were identified from these casesduring the year.
In accordance with our ABAC policy, annual training is required to be performed.
This year the annual e-learning module was rolled out to all corporate staff and manufacturing and retail employees of manager level and above, a total of 2,978 employees.
The training reached a 99% completion rate.
Any incidents or potential areas of concern are investigated by highly experienced investigators in our Asset Profit and Protection team and ABAC risks are covered as part of the scope of Internal Audit reviews.
During the year there were no material ABAC related issues.
63 STRATEGIC REPORT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Sustained breaches of Burberrys intellectual property IP rights or allegations of infringement by Burberry.
Counterfeiting, copyright, trademark and design infringement in the marketplace can reduce the demand for genuine Burberry merchandise.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Protecting the integrity of the brand, The Groups global Brand Protection team is responsible for the safeguarding and elevating its luxury position, Groups brand protection efforts globally, including in the digital complying with applicable laws and regulations, environment.
Where infringements are identified these are and doing the right thing underlie all our addressed through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and strategicpillars.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws which afford varying RISK TOLERANCE degrees of protection and enforcement priorities depending on We have a low tolerance for risk in protecting thecountry.
the integrity of the brand, asserting our IP rights Trademark registrations globally across all .
and minimising parallel trade while ensuring due The Brand Protection team partners closely with the design and respect is given to the IP rights ofothers.
merchandising teams to ensure that our products do not infringe the rights of third parties.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS Exploring new and emerging threats and ways to combat threats.
Counterfeiting, parallel trade, copyright, Inspiring Burberry associates and partners to engage with us in trademark and design infringement in the protecting our brand.
marketplace can reduce the demand for Partnering with enforcement agencies and our digital partners to genuine Burberry merchandise and impact minimise the visibility of counterfeit and parallel trade products onrevenues.
Unauthorised use of trademarks and other IP, Disrupting the flow of counterfeit products by enforcing to as well as the unauthorised sale of Burberry sourcelevel.
products and distribution of counterfeit products, damages the Burberry brand image and profits.
Allegations from third parties of IP infringement by Burberry could result insignificant damages claims, financialloss through withdrawing infringing products and negatively impact Burberrys reputation.
64 STRATEGIC REPORT external risks MACROECONOMIC AND POLITICAL INSTABILITY The Group operates in a wide range of markets and is exposed to changing economic, regulatory, social and political developments that may impact consumer demand, disrupt operations and impact profitability.
Adverse macro-economic conditions or country-specific changes to the operating or regulatory environment or civil unrest mayimpact spending habits of key consumer groups such as the Chinese consumer and cause increased operationalcosts.
Change from FY 2016 17: No change LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Volatility in the external environment may impact Our global reach helps to mitigate reliance on particular consumer our overall financial performance and operations.
We continue to focus on engaging with the Chinese luxury consumer, both in China and while travelling abroad.
In addition, RISK TOLERANCE our brand has wide appeal across multiple consumer segments, We have a low to moderate tolerance for risk in this including a broad set of ages and preferences.
area but recognise external factors are difficult to The risk associated with North Korea is outside our control.
Korea mitigate as they are often outside our control.
is a key region for the overall business and the situation is being monitored by the Group Incident Management Team.
EXAMPLES OF RISKS The strategy does not address the changes created by macro-economic trends and uncertainty in the outlook for the luxury sector globally or within significant consumer groups, e. g. Chinese consumers.
Increased political instability and tension caused by thesituation in North Korea may cause increased operationalcosts.
BREXIT Various Brexit scenarios could impact the Groups financial position, supply chain and people.
Change from FY 2016 17: New LINK TO STRATEGY ACTIONS TAKEN BY MANAGEMENT Volatility caused by Brexit uncertainty may A transitional arrangement potentially offers some temporary relief impact our overall financial performance.
to December 2020 and, assuming agreement, should provide 18 months more time for mitigation planning and implementation.
RISK TOLERANCE Our Brexit Steering Committee continually monitors the evolving Although we have a low tolerance for risk caused impact of Brexit and oversees our response.
by Brexit there is still uncertainty about the AEO accreditation would mitigate supply chain risks and continues long-term impact.
Engagement with UK government departments to ensure they are EXAMPLES OF RISKS fully informed of our circumstances and concerns, through Additional customs duty from the cessation appropriate representation.
ofexisting free trade agreements and VAT cashflow costs at the new UK trade border.
Impact on some current business roadmaps.
Extended supply lead times increasing workingcapital.
Uncertainty over the rights of EU nationals which has increased the risk of losing talent.
Exchange and interest rate volatility impactingGroup revenues, margins, profits and cashflow.
65 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES IN FY 2017 18 & PLANS FOR FY 2018 19 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES UNDERTOOK A NUMBER OF RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES THROUGHOUT THE YEAR AS FOLLOWS: IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS MANAGEMENT ACTIONS & DEEP DIVES We identify and review risk through two processes: Control functions provide independent assurance to management, the Audit Committee and the Board on the A bottom-up process undertaken across the Groups effectiveness of management actions to mitigate risks.
business areas and functions to identify and manage risks in their areas: and Our Internal Audit function also periodically reviews the A top-down process overseen by the Management Risk riskmanagement process.
Committee to identify key risks to our strategic priorities.
We have undertaken a number of deep dives at Board and During the year, the key risks identified through these two Audit Committee level into the management of certain risks: processes were mapped against each other, and were reviewed and revised to reflect changes in the business and IT Cyber: Report to each Audit Committee on IT and the external environment.
These were then re-grouped to cyber security.
produce a schedule of principal risks, which were discussed Compliance and Legal: Regular reports on compliance at our Management Risk Committee and presented to the matters and risks to the Management Risk Committee, Audit Committee in May.
including updates on intellectual property and litigation, and compliance with GDPR.
STRATEGIC RISK Talent Management: Annual discussion on succession An exercise was performed with the Executive Team to planning by the Board, presentation on culture and values identify the risks to delivering the new strategic objectives.
This was reviewed and presented to the Board.
Operational: Presentations to the Audit Committee oninventory, the supply chain, and reports on RISK APPETITE qualityrisks.
The Groups risk appetite and tolerance levels were Financial: Presentations to the Audit Committee on the presented to the Board and approved in March 2018.
will be used to set tolerance limits and target risks for each Change Programmes: Presentation to the Board on of the principal risks and refine mitigation plans.
Burberry Business Services and site visit to the new officein Leeds.
66 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR VIABILITY STATEMENT ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS VIABILITY ASSESSMENT Burberrys annual corporate planning process consists of During the year, our Directors have carried out a robust preparing a strategic plan, reforecasting the current year assessment of the Principal Risks of the Group, which is set business performance during the year, and preparing a out on pages 56 to 65.
The directors have also identified the more detailed budget for the following year.
nature and potential impact of those risks on the viability of the Group, together with the likelihood of themmaterialising.
The strategic plan is the main basis for assessing the longer-term prospects of the Group.
Our strategic planning This analysis has then been used to carry out an assessment process involves a detailed review of the plan by our Chief of the ability of the Group to continue in operation and meet Executive Officer and Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
The assessment covers the three-year period This is done in conjunction with our regional and functional from April 2018 to March 2021.
This was considered management teams, followed by a presentation and appropriate by the Directors because: discussion of the strategy at the Board.
Delivery against the plan is monitored through our annual budget process and It is sufficient to complete almost all currently approved subsequent forecast updates.
The key assumptions considered in our strategic plan are As the Group does not have significant amounts of future sales performance by product, channel and contracted income, and as most current projects will geography, expenditure plans and cash generation.
We also becompleted in the three-year period, any projections consider the Groups projected liquidity, balance sheet beyond March 2021 will only vary as a result of estimates strength and the potential impact of the plan on ofsales growth and cost growth assumptions.
The assessment process consisted of stress testing, The Groups strategy is set out on pages 24 to 43. combined with considering potentially significant one-off Key factors affecting the Groups prospects over the period impacts.
The stress testing involved estimating the impact of of viability assessment and the longer term are: revenue sensitivities on profitability and cash generation over the three year period, together with reverse stress testing to Our brand, Burberry, supports the Groups performance identify the theoretical revenue sensitivity that the Group and provides a platform for future growth.
could absorb, without impacting its viability.
The performance of our products.
We are reshaping our Potential one-off impacts modelled were a major breach in offer and increasing and invigorating the fashion content.
cyber systems or information security, a major incident at a We will create compelling luxury leather goods and key location or supplier and a significant change in sterling accessories to attract new customers.
We will build on foreign exchange rates.
the strength of our apparel and re-energise it.
We will build our offer to provide a complete look for our The sensitivities took account of the likely mitigating actions customers, while continuing to simplify our ranges.
available to the Directors through adjustments tothe operating plan in the normal course of business, including a The success of our communications.
We will put products reduction in variable costs related to sales.
Theyalso took at the centre of our communications.
We will leverage account of the impact of changes in performance on returns our extensive digital reach to convey new energy.
We will to shareholders, while adhering toour dividendpolicy.
be bold in the way we engage luxury consumers, reinventing our editorial content and experiences.
In assessing the viability of the Group, the Directors have also considered the Groups current liquidity and available The customers experience when interacting with the facilities set out in note 22 of the Financial Statements and brand.
We will transform our in-store experience by financial risk management objectives and hedging activities refurbishing our stores and enhancing our luxury service.
We will continue to lead innovation in digital, delivering personalised experiences and true omnichannel services.
Based on this assessment, our Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Our financial discipline.
We will continue to focus on operation and meet its liabilities over the period to productivity, simplification and financial discipline March2021.
andmaintain our commitment to the capital allocationframework.
In making this statement, the Directors have made the key assumption that there is no material long-term impairment to the Burberry brand.
