STRATEGIC REPORT CAPITAL ALLOCATION FRAMEWORK Burberrys Capital Allocation Framework is used to prioritise the use of cash generated by the Group.
The framework addresses the investment needs of the business, regular dividend payments and additional returns to shareholders.
The framework also seeks to maintain an appropriate capital structure for the business and a strong balance sheet with solid investment grade metrics.
The diagram below summarises the key priorities.
REINVEST FOR PROGRESSIVE STRATEGIC RETURN EXCESS ORGANIC GROWTH DIVIDEND POLICY INVESTMENTS CASH TO SHAREHOLDERS 1 2 3 4 Store portfolio Committed to Investment in Review future cash New space and maintaining or structural changes generation, renovation growing the dividend to business activities reflecting Burberrys IT infrastructure, in pence terms that typically tend to growth, productivity digital and supply year-on-year be infrequent and investment chain Deliver regular In FY 2017 18 we had plans, taking into returns to an inflow relating to consideration the shareholders Beauty transitioning external to a strategic environment partnership with Coty Maintain strong balance sheet with solid investment grade credit metrics Review the principal risks of the Group and the relevant financial parameters, both historical and projected, including net cash, lease-adjusted net debt and measures covering balance sheet strength and fixed charge cover.
These risks are considered by the Board when assessing the viability of the Group, as set out on page 67.
Capital structure metrics FY 2017 18 FY 2016 17 Net cash 892m 809m Lease-adjusted net debt 327m 388m Burberry has applied its capital allocation framework during the year ended 31 March 2018, as follows: Reinvested 106m into the business as capital expenditure.
Increased its full year dividend by 6% to 41.3p.
Received a net inflow of 150m relating to the transition of Beauty to a strategic partnership with Coty.
Returned a further 355m to shareholders via a share buyback programme.
