STRATEGIC REPORT Six strategic pillars OUR STRATEGY HAS SIX PILLARS: FOUR REVENUE DRIVERS AND TWO ENABLERS REVENUE DRIVERS PRODUCT COMMUNICATION DISTRIBUTION DIGITAL ENABLERS OPERATIONAL INSPIRED EXCELLENCE PEOPLE 30 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR SIX STRATEGIC PILLARS ARE SUMMARISED BELOW AND IN GREATER DETAIL ON THE SUBSEQUENT PAGES REVENUE DRIVERS STRATEGY ENABLERS PRODUCT OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE To re-energise the brand and win with fashion-forward To deliver sustainable growth, we must increase our agility influencers, we are evolving our product offer to signal and efficiency, enabling us to better respond to the rapidly change and attract the attention of luxury consumers.
changing environment in which we operate.
Our ambition is Transforming leather goods will be a key part of this.
to adapt our supply chain to deliver true luxury products, Wewillcontinue to be unconstrained by the traditional power the organisation through technology and to work calendar, offering regular newness.
We will also focus on inasimple and efficient way.
Operational exellence is an creating full outfits for the customer, adding innovation at important foundation as we strengthen our Company and every price point to recruit new customers to the brand.
COMMUNICATION By working differently and more effectively we can remove We are evolving our communications to be led by product significant waste.
We have accelerated and extended our and made for social media.
Placing our products at the cost saving programme to deliver 100m of cumulative cost centre of our communications, we will leverage our digital savings in FY 2018 19, and 120m of cumulative annualised and social media reach to convey new energy.
We will cost savings by FY 2019 20, which in total represents 15% of reignite brand heat and change customer perception, using our addressable cost base.
bold consumer engagement, reinventing editorial content and increasing our focus on experiences, using pop-ups and INSPIRED PEOPLE capsules to continually engage consumers with the brand.
Our Inspired People programme is designed to deliver the organisational and people elements of our strategy.
Work DISTRIBUTION isunderway to deliver on our commitments of fostering a Our aim is to operate a distribution network that dynamic and inclusive culture to engage employees, isconsistent with our luxury positioning.
To support empower our leaders, strengthen capabilities, expand thischange, we will rationalise our non-luxury wholesale ourtalent plans, simplify how we work and drive positive and retail doors, with an initial emphasis on the US and sustainable change across every part of our footprint.
We will also transform our in-store experience byrefurbishing our retail stores and enhancing customer service.
Together, these actions will enhance our luxurydistribution network, supporting our refined brandpositioning.
DIGITAL We are revolutionising our digital proposition by displaying highly curated product assortments and personalised stories and editorialising our website to enhance consumer engagement.
We are also improving the omnichannel experience to allow customers flexibility over payment anddelivery options, allowing them to switch seamlessly between physical and digital.
We will also strategically growand strengthen digital partnerships with .
31 STRATEGIC REPORT Product PRODUCT IS AT THE HEART OF OUR TRANSFORMATION To re-energise the brand and win with fashion-forward influencers, we are evolving our product offer to signal change and win the attention of luxury consumers.
Transforming leather goods will be a key part of this.
We will continue to be unconstrained by the traditional calendar, delivering regular newness.
We will also focus on creating full outfits for the customer and re-energising all price points to recruit new customers to the brand.
The five components of our product strategy are: Todays luxury customer demands newness and excitement.
Wewill re-energise our product offering to send a strong, edited CREATE A NEW, fashion message.
STRONG, FASHIONABLE PRODUCT OFFER Leather goods, particularly handbags, are an important driver ofperception for luxury brands.
Burberry will build a compelling luxury leather goods offer, considering a range of customers, end TRANSFORM uses and silhouette preferences.
We will increase the prominence LEATHER GOODS of bags within our stores and online to realise the revenue opportunity, as well as improve wider brand perception.
We will continuously engage with consumers throughout the year by increasing the number of deliveries to stores and online, and by generating excitement through relevant collaborations and CONTINUOUS capsule collections, in addition to our runway shows.
ENGAGEMENT We will shift towards an outfit mindset by developing collections that will create a full outfit for the customer from head to toe, and by arranging our stores by look and fashion story rather than OUTFIT product category.
Burberrys sales associates will act as brand ambassadors, highly trained in styling and outfitting, optimising cross-selling.
We will offer a breadth of price points using our product range while also remaining competitive.
We will inject more creativity into our product offering, including converter REBALANCE PRICE categories such as shoes, jewellery, eyewear and charms.
ARCHITECTURE These offer consumers luxury fashion at more accessible price points.
Through time, this should help improve traffic and recruit new customers to the brand.
32 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR We have started to deliver frequent, fresh deliveries and We have created our new handbag architecture around a capsules.
One example is the February Runway capsule, range of customers, end uses and silhouette preferences, which was highly edited and sent a strong fashion message while ensuring value is perceptible.
to the consumer while delivering triple-digit revenue growthper option.
This collection attracted new and young customers.
It also resonated well with our existing top-tier customers, with customers buying complete looks, in line with our strategy.
33 STRATEGIC REPORT Communication EVOLVING OUR COMMUNICATIONS PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR We are evolving our communications to be led by product We have made good progress evolving our communications, and made for social media.
Placing our products at the putting our renewed fashion offering at the forefront.
On centre of our communications, we will leverage our digital burberry.
com and across every campaign and social media and social media reach to convey new energy.
We will image, exciting and innovative angles and views, animations reignite brand heat and change customer perception, using and formats bring products to life.
bold consumer engagement, reinventing editorial content and increasing our focus on experiences, using pop-ups and There has also been a measured step change in our creative capsules to continually engage consumers with the brand.
collaborations across events, social and other media.
Highlights include one of a kind customised totes PRODUCT FIRST in partnership with Danny Sangra, a highly original and We are evolving our communication to ensure inventive artist, illustrator and filmmaker.
that our product is prominent in all our engagement.
Inevery image and campaign, our distinctive Burberry Across our social media, our 'Burberry X Cara Delevingne' products will be placed front and centre and we will create Christmas party campaign fuelled excitement over the dedicated communications support for pre-collection festive period.
Engagement covered the entire year with campaigns, as well as the runway.
creative content from Adwoa Aboah and Blondey McCoy conveying Burberrys renewed brand energy.
CONTENT REVOLUTION We will revolutionise our consumer-facing content, We have also stepped up the frequency of our fashion including the material published on our digital channels and moments.
During the year, we released bold capsule our own website.
We will update our creative language collections with Kris Wu, an influencer with an unparalleled to be bold, dynamic and compelling, to signal the change Chinese millennial following, and Gosha Rubchinskiy, that is underway.
Content is an increasingly important ahighly distinctive Russian streetwear designer and vehicle for reaching the new fashion-forward customer.
Both were successful in generating increased excitement.
40% of the traffic to our Gosha webpage was FOCUS ON EXPERIENCES first time visitors to burberry.
com and the collaboration Experiences are becoming ever more important to excite generated queues outside our stores on the launch day.
We will focus on the most powerful experiences for our customers across every Pop-ups have been used selectively to drive momentum channel, physical and digital, using the latest tools such as and create buzz in key markets.
During the year Burberry augmented reality.
We will focus on collaborating with key opened pop-ups in two top Japanese department stores fashion influencers, who are central to conveying change inTokyo and Osaka, chosen for their prestige and tothe market and consumers.
In addition, a highly visible hot air balloon installation at Heathrow Terminal 2 in London targeted travelling customers.
For more information about our content and marketing efforts throughout the year, please see pages 14 to 19.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Distribution TRANSFORMING THE PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE In line with our new brand positioning, we have prioritised Our aim is to operate a distribution network that anumber of immediate measures to elevate the store isconsistent with our luxury positioning.
These include: the introduction of a global thischange, we will rationalise our non-luxury wholesale retail leaders programme for those in priority stores and and retail doors, with an initial emphasis on the US and anew digital clienteling tool, with improved functionality thenEMEIA.
We will also transform our in-store experience across client service, product information and aftersales.
byrefurbishing our retail stores and enhancing customer We are also rolling out merchant led product training.
Together, these actions will enhance our luxurydistribution network, supporting our refined In addition, we are piloting a new approach to how we brandpositioning.
interact with customers, touching everything from how theyare greeted when they walk through the door to their ENHANCE THE LUXURY STORE EXPERIENCE experience after purchasing.
This is currently being tested Across our network, Burberry store managers and at three of our stores, and will evolve based onwhat we associates play a pivotal role in shaping the in-store learn from these pilots.
We are investing in talent recruitment, development and retention of sales associates who will be In wholesale, we remain focused on shifting customer critical as frontline brand ambassadors.
In the last six months we have launched a will be trained in styling and will focus on appointmentnumber of successful partnerships, exclusives and pop-ups.
We will also introduce a new digital For example, we placed February show capsule installations sales tool with enhanced functionalities to support our at leading luxury independent stores, which are important store teams.
for reaching our target luxury fashion customer.
These included locations such as Dover St Market, The Store Our mainline stores are a critical consumer touchpoint and Berlin, Browns East and Antonia Milan.
we will rejuvenate them to convey our elevated luxury positioning.
We will develop a new store concept, which will We are also working in partnership with our wholesalers ensure a consistent and elevated expression of the brand toreview the quality of our points of sale.
In the US, we within our stores.
continue to have good discussions with our key wholesale partners and are progressing well on improving our GROW PROPORTION OF IMAGE-DRIVING distribution.
We have also begun to reduce our outlet LUXURY DOORS exposure.
During the year we confirmed the net closure of Our goal is to reflect and amplify our new luxury positioning sixoutlets, including three in the Americas.
across all points of sale.
This includes recruiting and growing image driving wholesale accounts, collaborating with wholesale partners to produce exclusive product capsules, and increasing our presence in key department stores.
Simultaneously, we will reduce our presence in non-luxury points of distribution across our retail and wholesale channels.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT 37 STRATEGIC REPORT Digital REVOLUTIONISING CONTENT PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR AND SERVICES As an early adopter, we have an outstanding digital reach, We are revolutionising our digital proposition by displaying with over 51 million followers globally, across 13 unique highly curated product assortments and personalised platforms, 24 accounts and 11 languages.
This allows stories and editorialising our website to enhance consumer high-impact, rapid brand communications to signal engagement.
We are also improving the omnichannel changearound the globe.
experience to allow customers flexibility over payment anddelivery options, allowing them to switch seamlessly In line with our new positioning, we are articulating between physical and digital.
We will also strategically Burberry's fashion credentials through distinctive new growand strengthen digital partnerships with brandforms of content.
We have also transformed burberry.
from an online catalogue to a luxury flagship site with curated, highly editorialised content.
This was completed Burberrys digital strategy falls under four major headings: inFebruary 2018 and will continue to evolve.
CONTENT CURATION AND STORYTELLING Our Burberry app, now available in 33 countries, is our We will curate our product and merchandising assortment, customers gateway to the world of Burberry.
People can for example through shop the look rather than product explore and shop new collections while managing all orders category, bringing the digital shopping experience to life in one place.
They are immersed in personalised, shoppable through powerful product storytelling.
Wewill express our stories and can discover the latest style inspiration, brand's point of view through an editorialised website and campaign images and videos.
product first social media campaigns.
This will involve enhancing theme pages and introducing shoppable stories In China, Burberry customers can now book in-store and social content onto owned digital platforms.
appointments via WeChat, Chinas number one multipurpose social media mobile application.
Users visiting PERSONALISED LUXURY SERVICES burberry.
com can scan a QR code a matrix barcode to We will offer a personalised digital experience through open WeChat.
They are then geo-located to their nearest product recommendations that are tailored to customer store to book anappointment.
In addition, should they preferences.
We will ensure dynamic online customer wishto do so, the customer can speak to a sales associate engagement, for example through evolving and ahead of their visit, offering them a unique, personalised .
SEAMLESS OMNICHANNEL EXPERIENCES In February, we launched our new global collaboration We will allow customers flexibility in payment and delivery withFarfetch, the leading global technology platform options, enabling them to switch seamlessly between forthe fashion industry.
For the first time, our internally physical and digital distribution channels.
developed technology has been integrated to the Farfetch API the platforms operating system allowing our entire ACCELERATE DIGITAL PARTNERSHIPS global inventory to be available through their e-commerce Digital partnerships are expected to be a key source platform.
This integration has expanded our distribution ofgrowth for the luxury industry going forward.
We globally, giving us access to over 150 countries, willstrategically grow in this area through selective, furtherextending our reach to the young, brand-appropriate third-party partnerships to extend .
ourdigital presence, while always ensuring a consistent brand experience and product representation.
We will also We are also working with Farfetch to identify the next wave deepen existing relationships, for example through limited of technological advancement for the industry, as the first edition capsule product collaborations.
brand to partner on the new Dream Assembly programme.
Working with start-ups, it acts as a technology accelerator through a programme of mentorship, networking opportunities and access to early stage funding.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational excellence FUTURE PROOFING FOR THE NEXT TECHNOLOGY We are making major investments across our technology PHASE OF THE JOURNEY landscape to create extraordinary experiences for our To deliver sustainable growth, we must increase our agility customers and employees, and to increase our agility as a and efficiency, enabling us to better respond to the rapidly business.
For retail, this means supporting the customer changing environment in which we operate.
Our ambition is service elevation objective through an upgraded single to adapt our supply chain to deliver true luxury products, global Point of Sale system and new clienteling solutions.
power the organisation through technology and to work in Across digital, investment in omnichannel, our Burberry asimple and efficient way.
Operational excellence is an app, data and analytics and burberry.
com are necessary for important foundation as we strengthen our Company our new digital ecosystem.
In Finance, we are strengthening andre-position our brand.
and automating analytics and reporting to support decisionmaking.
We are also addressing the basics, upgrading our By working differently and more effectively we can remove network speed and Wi-Fi in all areas of the business.
As a result, we have accelerated and extended our cost saving programme to deliver 100m PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR ofcumulative cost savings in FY 2018 19, and 120m of cumulative annualised cost savings by FY 2019 20, which BURBERRY BUSINESS SERVICES intotal represents 15% of our addressable cost base.
In October 2017 we successfully executed plans to establish Burberry Business Services in the heart of Leeds.
The new SIMPLIFICATION AND EFFICIENCY office brings together shared services from Finance, HR and We are implementing new ways of working across all Procurement, Customer Service and IT with over 250 roles functions, including merchandising, planning, design, now filled.
The majority of transactional end-to-end finance, supply chain and marketing.
We are redefining processes such as source to pay, sales order to cash and ourend-to-end design and production calendar the record to report now operate out of this office.
This has backbone of our business - ensuring we are synchronised generated savings from process improvements, labour rates across teams.
We are streamlining and simplifying our core and lower facility costs.
operating model and business processes to ensure a single, global approach, and improve accountability and speed of ARIBA decision-making.
Our approach to procurement is also At the end of 2017 Burberry completed the global evolving, centralising and automating processes and implementation of Ariba guided buying and the majority targeting areas for savings using category management.
ofindirect purchase requests are now raised and approved within the system.
For Burberry, the project represents SUPPLY CHAIN asignificant milestone in its goal to transform indirect We are adapting our supply chain to create true luxury procurement into a simplified end-to-end global fashion products and deliver world-class service, ensuring process, generating significant operational efficiencies consistency across all channels.
We are increasing our andcostreduction.
focus on the quality of materials and adapting our supply chain to enable the shift towards fashion.
We are driving RETAIL CALENDAR service excellence by increasing our omnichannel On 1 April 2018 the Groups statutory financial reporting capabilities, tailoring our deliveries to customer needs calendar was aligned to the operational business by andreducing delivery time from days to hours.
We are adopting a retail calendar, a 52-week year of four quarters alsocommitted to making a positive impact through our of 13 weeks, in a monthly 5-4-4 weekly format.
This single products by driving our responsibility agenda, including enterprise calendar has aligned financial reporting responsible sourcing and waste reduction.
acrossfunctions and enabled automated reporting in orderto streamline ways of working and improve performance analysis.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT A CLOSER LOOK AT BURBERRY The new hub will be a centre of excellence, making us BUSINESS SERVICES moreproductive and efficient by simplifying processes and fostering teamwork across functions.
From the outset we STRENGTHENING OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NORTH are embedding a Lean Six Sigma based culture to underpin OF ENGLAND our ambition for continuous improvement.
The new As part of our Operational Excellence strategy, we wanted multi-functional, multi-lingual team in Burberry Business to create a shared service organisation bringing together Services is off to a great start, having completed thousands anumber of our teams under one roof in Leeds.
of hours of knowledge transfer, and successfully transitioned most of the services.
The new teams expertise Burberry Business Services opened in October 2017, in end-to-end process optimisation and shared service bringing together staff from our Finance, HR, Procurement, best practices is already bearing fruit.
Improvement Customer Service and IT teams.
initiatives are underway in key business processes, such assource to pay, sales order to cash and record to report, We aim to have over 400 people employed in the Leeds and we anticipate productivity gains of 20% in the first year.
Some of these people have moved from Horseferry House in London, while the majority With a number of universities and colleges close by we will be new hires, offering employment opportunities in the areable to build a talent pipeline for the future, with local community.
opportunities for graduates and apprentices.
Burberry Business Services is a great example of our Operational Excellence programme in action.
Agile and efficient, it is already contributing to our targeted annualised savings of 120m by FY 2019 20.
Julie Brown, Chief Financial and Operational Officer 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Inspired people DELIVERING THE ORGANISATIONAL AND Beyond this population, we believe in leadership at every level of the business, and are expanding the support PEOPLE ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY available for line managers, following a successful first year Our Inspired People programme is designed to deliver the of targeted training.
organisational and people elements of our strategy.
Work isunderway to deliver on our commitments of fostering a WAYS OF WORKING dynamic and inclusive culture to engage employees, We are committed to the continued improvement of our empower our leaders, strengthen capabilities, expand our global operating model, and simplification of the ways we talent plans, simplify how we work and drive positive work, underpinned by open communication and crosssustainable change across every part of our footprint.
We are working to simplify processes, streamline decision-making and remove The People plan is founded on five initiatives: duplication, focusing on the most critical areas of the business first.
CULTURE AND ENGAGEMENT With more than 10,000 employees across 35 countries, RESPONSIBILITY creating shared purpose and unification around aligned Burberrys Responsibility strategy, Creating Tomorrows values and behaviours are vital to the successful delivery of Heritage, is covered in more detail on pages 44 to 47. our vision.
Our core values of Protect, Explore and Inspire Announced in June 2017, it is a comprehensive programme continue to resonate with our teams globally and we have that expands on our sector-leading work to date, focused deepened our focus on our culture by identifying the on delivering positive change and building a more behaviours we believe will support the delivery of our plans.
sustainable future through ambitious goals around our These are: communities, products and Company operations.
It is asource of great pride to our employees and everyone Put customers first hasan important part to play in delivering our goals, from Be bold and open to new ideas working on specific product or Company targets, to using Be one team their three days volunteering allowance in support of Be accountable and responsive localcommunities.
TALENT AND CAPABILITIES PROGRESS DURING THE YEAR Our strategy is predicated on building the skills and capabilities we need for now and the future, through Over the last year we have delivered a comprehensive attracting, retaining and developing the right talent across campaign around our strategy, with leaders engaging their all our teams.
Our work in this area includes targeted teams through interactive sessions, supported by digital strengthening of capabilities in areas of strategic priority, tools.
To better understand what matters most to the Company-wide evolution of our talent and career employees, we introduced a global employee engagement initiatives and strengthening our leadership talent.
survey, using feedback to prioritise our investment across the Inspired People programme.
Action plans and With tailored approaches for different parts of the commitments were made at both a Company-wide and business, capability actions range from comprehensive individual team level.
training programmes supporting key strategic shifts to targeted coaching and mentoring.
Expansion of our talent An example of our response is the first Burberry Disrupted plans encompasses both improved programmes and event, described on page 43.
Other significant moments in processes and enhanced employee career support.
Culture and Engagement included the Burberry Icon Awards, celebrating employees and teams who have lived our values LEADERSHIP and our global summer Retail Conferences.
The Burberry Leaders group is made up of 272 of the most senior people in the business, who drive the delivery of our Leaders in priority areas of the business began work on strategy.
We are committed to engaging, empowering and strengthening critical capabilities, including a number of developing this critical population.
Central to our plans is activities focused on our retail population.
For example, we the introduction of a new leadership programme, while we enhanced our retail training by introducing merchant-led continue to deepen the talent pool and widen our product training: introduced an immediate global retail collective experience through attracting outstanding leaders initiative for those in priority stores: and supported external talent and developing our own people.
our teams in pilot stores to transform customer experience.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT Alongside this, we are also introducing a number of new Burberry delivered a number of significant changes to career and talent programmes to develop our people, itsoperating model in FY 2017 18, including the opening including new approaches to career development and oftheBurberry Business Services shared service centre .
inLeeds, realignment of our regional operating model andimplementation of new leadership governance.
This year we began work on our new leadership programme.
Simplification work was focused on supporting the The programme is based on a combination of coaching and evolutionof critical processes and teams.
global workshops, led by our senior leadership team and shaped around our aligned purpose, values and behaviours, In January 2018, we held the first Burberry Disrupted event supporting leaders to perform at their best.
This will build at the Horseferry Campus in London, with all teams coming on the progress made this year through the Powerful together for a day of cross-functional team problem Conversations programme, attended by more than 500 of solving, led by the Burberry Leaders group.
Over 1,500 our global line leaders and designed to equip leaders to employees took part in this day.
In recognition of the coach their teams and drive performance.
importance of our people, the focus of the event was on generating ideas to improve employee experience.
Themes Burberry also made significant progress this year on and ideas from the day have been embedded into our plans strengthening the leadership talent pool, putting in place around careers and culture and we are now looking at how the right experience and expertise.
This included promoting we bring to life the winning idea, and expand Disrupted for internal candidates to critical senior roles and welcoming the wider business.
new joiners in vital areas including regional general management, analytics and operational excellence.
