STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy IN NOVEMBER 2017, WE SET OUT OUR HOW OUR STRATEGY WAS DEVELOPED Our strategy was developed over the course of several MULTI-YEAR PLAN TO RE-ENERGISE OUR months by our Chief Executive Officer, Marco Gobbetti, PRODUCT AND OUR CUSTOMERS' andBurberrys senior leadership team.
The approach was EXPERIENCE OF OUR BRAND TO DELIVER highly collaborative, with each member of the senior team SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM VALUE leading a significant part of the work.
As the plans were developed, they were shared regularly with the Board whogave its unanimous support for the strategy in WHY WE HAVE LAUNCHED A NEW STRATEGY November 2017.
We have been on a journey over the last 162 years, from equipping explorers, to becoming one of the most valuable STRATEGIC IMPLEMENTATION global luxury brands with a distinctive, inclusive, uniquely Burberrys transformation will have two phases: first, a British point of view.
Since the IPO in 2002, we have two-year period of investment to strengthen our brand enjoyed strong growth by expanding our global luxury retail positioning: and the period beyond, when we expect growth footprint, building our leadership in digital, and developing to accelerate.
In the first two years, we will rationalise our distribution, Today, the luxury sector has changed, and new consumers manage our creative transition and invest in brand demand innovation, creativity, personalisation, curation and experiences.
This transition phase will establish Burberry excitement from brands at every turn.
firmly in luxury and prepare the business for the delivery of sustainable, long-term value in the coming years.
To win with this consumer, we must sharpen our brand positioning.
Building on our strong foundations, our vision In the second phase, growth is expected to accelerate, isto establish Burberrys position firmly in luxury fashion.
driven by our new creative vision and rejuvenated brand By doing so, we will play in the most rewarding, enduring positioning, and supported by an appropriate distribution segment of the market, and deliver sustainable long-term network, enhanced communications and an improved value.
This shift will require a change in our approach to customer service proposition.
product, communication and customer experience.
Our strategy will be delivered through six strategic pillars, RATIONALE four revenue drivers to re-energise the brand and enhance Todays luxury consumers are more demanding in their luxury consumer engagement Communication, Product, expectations of personalisation, newness and fashion.
Distribution and Digital and two enablers Operational Theyare moving away from traditional notions of luxury Excellence and Inspired People.
These will ensure that we andelegance, and are looking for casual, fun fashion, such continue to focus on productivity and simplification and as streetwear, that fits with their lifestyles.
They want have the right capabilities in place to realise our vision.
innovative, exciting assortments which can be used to express their opinions and point of view.
The injection Our six strategic pillars are outlined in greater detail on the offashion has become a priority for all luxury brands, following pages and summarised in the table opposite.
including core heritage brands, as traditional luxury consumers mature and new luxury consumers emerge, WHAT WE WILL ACHIEVE demanding newness.
By re-energising our product and customer experience to establish Burberry firmly in luxury, we will position Consumers are also polarising between luxury and mass ourselves in the most rewarding and enduring segment of market offerings.
20 years ago, mid-market brands the market.
This will enable us to drive sustainable growth dominated the fashion market.
Today, however, consumers and meaningful operating margin expansion over time, while prefer either high luxury or mass market items, mixing them continuing to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
together to create a unique and personal look.
As a result, players in the middle segment are increasingly losing share.
With these movements in the market, we must refine ourbrand message and position.
Our vision is to ground Burberry firmly in luxury, responding to consumers increasing desire for fashion and newness.
Given our strongbrand, heritage, extensive distribution and capability to innovate across multiple categories, we are well positioned to make this move.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT THE STRATEGY WILL BE DELIVERED THROUGH A COMBINATION OF SUPERIOR ORGANIC PROFIT GROWTH AND CONTINUED STRONG CASH GENERATION, AS WELL AS THROUGH OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR CAPITAL ALLOCATION FRAMEWORK, WHICH IS OUTLINED ON PAGE 53.
In the short term, there will be a period of transition as we implement our strategy, during which revenues and operating margins are expected to be broadly stable.
Cash generation is expected to remain strong and be utilised in line with our capital allocation framework.
We are tracking our progress through a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs and other measures which we consider important in performance against our strategy.
These are monitored regularly and are laid out in the table below.
KPIS AND OTHER STRATEGIC PILLARS AND MANAGEMENT HOW WE WILL ACHIEVE THEM AMBITION MEASURES Create a new, strong, fashionable product offer Transform leather goods PRODUCT Continually engage the customer Develop outfitting Rebalance the price architecture Product first High single digit Revenue growth Content revolution top-linegrowth Comparable sales growth COMMUNICATION Focus on experiences Vast majority of sales Product sales growth from luxury distribution Geographic sales growth Enhance the luxury store channels Channel sales growth experience Number of outlets Elevate customer service Adjusted operating DISTRIBUTION Grow proportion of image-driving profitgrowth luxury doors Adjusted profit before taxgrowth Content curation and storytelling Adjusted diluted Personalised luxury services EPSgrowth DIGITAL Seamless omnichannel experiences Adjusted retail Accelerate digital partnerships wholesaleROIC Simplification and efficiency Meaningful operating Adjusted operating Adapting our supply chain margin expansion profitmargin OPERATIONAL Investments in technology Achieved cost savings EXCELLENCE Drive procurement savings Adjusted opex to sales ratio Motivate our teams, reinforcing Top quartile Employee Employee engagement behaviours, culture and values Engagement Score Women in leadership roles Invest in leadership, core Equal gender Product responsibility capabilities and talent representation in Company responsibility INSPIRED PEOPLE Build a more sustainable future leadership Community responsibility Achievement of responsibility goals see pages 44 to 47 At constant exchange rates KPIs 25 ENABLERS REVENUE DRIVERS
