GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT THE DIRECTORS PRESENT THEIR The Groups auditors are  LLP.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP ANNUALREPORT AND THE AUDITED as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Note 8 of the OF THE COMPANY FOR THE YEAR TO Financial Statements states the auditors fees both for 31MARCH 2018. audit and non-audit work.
The Independent Auditors Report starting on page 129 sets STRATEGIC REPORT out the information contained in the Annual Report which Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act 2006 has been audited by them.
to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review of the Companys business, the development and performance Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 of the Companys business during the year, the position of The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4, where the Company at the end of the financial year to 31 March applicable, is included in this Directors Report.
2018, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The following are Political donations incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to form The Company made no political donations during the year part of this Directors Report: in line with its policy 2017: nil.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior years, shareholder approval is Strategic Report on pages 3 to 67: being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its Governance Report which includes the Board, the subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure Corporate Governance Report and the Directors which may be construed as political by the wide definition Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 121: and of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual Energy and global greenhouse gas emissions disclosure on General Meeting.
Financial instruments OTHER GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES The Groups financial risk management objectives and Revenue and profit policies are set out within note 26 of the Financial Revenue from the continuing business during the period Statements.
Note 26 also details the Groups exposure to amounted to 2,732.8m 2017: 2,766.0m.
The profit for the foreign exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital and year attributable to equity holders of the Company was liquidity risks.
This note is incorporated by reference and 293.5m 2017: 286.8m deemed to form part of this report.
Going concern Annual General Meeting The going concern statements for the Group and The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be Companyare set out on pages 142 and 188 of the Financial held at the Conrad London St. James, 22-28 Broadway, Statements and are incorporated by reference and shall be London, SW1H 0BH on Thursday, 12 July 2018.
The Notice of deemed to be part of this report.
this years AGM will be available to view on the Companys website at www.
Independent auditors In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act The Directors consider that each of the proposed 2006, each of the Companys Directors in office at the date resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best of this report confirms that: interests of the Company and its shareholders, and are most likely to promote the success of the Company for the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors information of which the Companys auditors are unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour unaware: and of each of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or Directors herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to The names and biographical details of the Directors as at establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the date of this report are set out on pages 72 and 73 and thatinformation.
are incorporated by reference into this report.
122 GOVERNANCE REPORT At the 2018 AGM, other than the Chairman who will step Interests in own shares down at the conclusion of the AGM, all of the current Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
out in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
The Notice of this years AGM sets out why the Board believes the Directors should be elected or re-elected.
Share capital Details of the Directors service agreements and letters of Details of the issued share capital, together with details of appointment are given in the Directors Remuneration movements in the issued share capital of Burberry Group plc Report on pages 96 to 121. during the year, are shown in note 23.
This is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
Directors insurance and indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries insurance, which gives cover for legal actions brought no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one against its Directors and officers.
In accordance with vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying thirdshares are listed on the Official List and traded on the party indemnity provisions are in place for the Directors London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March 2018, the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, had 418,275,123 ordinary shares in issue.
The Company does to the extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and not hold any shares in treasury.
indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2018 and through to the date of this report.
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary Directors share interests shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2017, The interests of the Directors holding office at to repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued 31 March 2018 in the shares of the Company are shown sharecapital.
From July 2017 to February 2018, the within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 96 Company completed a buyback programme of 355m.
There were no changes to the beneficial interests Afurther share buyback of 150m will be completed in of theDirectors between the period 31 March 2018 FY2018 19.
Further details are provided in the Notice of and 15May2018.
this years AGM, which is available on the Companys website atwww.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified under At the AGM in 2017, shareholders approved resolutions to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 72,330, following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: and to allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be proposed at this years Number of % of total AGM to renew these authorities.
ordinary voting 1 shares rights No person has any special rights of control over the GBL Energy Sarl 25,667,299 6.01 Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or BlackRock, Inc. 25,036,087 5.70 on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Lindsell Train Limited 21,928,267 5.00 general provisions of the Articles of Association and 2 FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any 2 Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 agreements between holders of the Companys shares 2 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer of securities The Capital Group or voting rights.
The Directors have no current plans to 2 Companies, Inc 20,783,178 4.67 issueshares other than in connection with employee Massachusetts Financial shareschemes.
2 Services Company 20,073,645 4.61 Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends 1.
As at the date in the notification to the Company payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares 2.
Notification was made over 12 months ago, as permitted under held by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has Rule 5, shareholders are not required to notify us of subsequent waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of changes within certain ranges the unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.
The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2018 were in Since 31 March 2018, the Company was notified on 10 May aggregate 2.0m 2017: 1.7m.
2018 by BlackRock, Inc that it holds 27,729,908 shares representing 6.62% of the total voting rights.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate Additionally, the Company was notified on 9 May 2018 that Governance Code 2016, and is governed by its Articles of GBL Energy Sarl holds under 3% of the total voting rights.
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
123 GOVERNANCE REPORT Dividends Burberry World is the key digital intranet channel used by The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 30.3 per the Company to communicate to employees globally.
ordinary share 2017: 28.4p in respect of the year to 31 However, other methods and channels are also used, March 2018 be paid on 3 August 2018 to those persons on including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums the Register of Members as at 29 June 2018. with senior management, email and instant messaging.
The Company also uses videos and digital web pages to An interim dividend of 11.0p per ordinary share was paid communicate key initiatives, events and other brand toshareholders on 2 February 2018 2017: 10.5p.
This will messages, to enhance internal communications, employee makea total dividend of 41.3p per ordinary share in respect connectivity and the Burberry culture.
of the financial year to 31 March 2018.
The aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect of the year Employee share ownership to31 March 2018 total 171.7m 2017: 169.4m.
The Group encourages share ownership at all levels, and runs incentive and share ownership schemes for the benefit Significant contracts change of control of employees.
Further details of these are set out in the Revolving credit facility Directors Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 121.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of control, the Companys The Group again intends to grant free share awards, or borrowings under the Groups 300m revolving credit equivalent cash-based awards, to all eligible employees facility dated 25 November 2014 could become repayable.
The Group also intends, where possible, toinvite eligible employees to take part in Service agreements theSharesaveScheme.
Details of the service agreements of the Executive Directorsare set out on page 113 of the Directors Further information regarding the Groups approach to Remuneration Report.
employee involvement and communications is provided in Inspired People on page 42.
Share plans The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may EMPLOYMENT POLICIES cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest Diversity and inclusion upon a change of control.
The Group takes an inclusive approach to diversity.
As aglobal business, Burberry values people of all cultures, Licence agreement nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless On 3 April 2017, Burberry entered into an exclusive licence ofcharacteristics such as gender, gender identity and or agreement with Coty pursuant to which Coty will develop, expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry manufacture, market, distribute and sell Burberry Beauty ispassionate about attracting, developing and rewarding products.
The agreement took effect from October 2017 the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of from which time ongoing royalty payments have been background.
The Group encourages its employees to work payable to Burberry.
Burberry received cash payments of across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance 130m in the second half of FY 2017 18 for the long-term understanding and create a connected global community.
exclusive global licence and related transfer of the Beauty As the Group continues to grow globally, we are building onour long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion, business.
Burberry also received c. 33m for assets transferring.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the embracing the cultures of all the countries where we dobusiness.
Burberry is committed to making the directors disclose that a change in control of Burberry will, in limited circumstances, result in Coty having a right of necessaryadjustments to support employment of people with disabilities, and provide training and development to termination of the licence agreement.
ensure they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Employee communications Diversity is at the heart of our Group culture, which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative ethos.
The Group believes that employee communications is animportant tool to enhance the Company culture and Atour London headquarters, 58 different nationalities arerepresented.
connectivity, and to motivate and retain employees.
A global communications programme, incorporating various The Board believes that it is critical that, in a diverse and physical and digital channels, enables all employees to connect and collaborate closely.
These channels are meritocratic environment, women are able tosucceed at all levels of the organisation.
In respect of our senior women, usedto efficiently communicate the Companys key strategies, financial performance and other matters we are members of the FT125 programme, which enables a group of these leaders to attend workshops and mentoring ofinterest and importance.
In addition, we have nominated a number of senior women to attend a board readiness programme.
124 GOVERNANCE REPORT As at 31 March 2018, female representation in the workforce support, including advice and information on workers is set out below: rightsand wellbeing.
The effectiveness of the hotlines is continuously reviewed and, during the year 588 calls and Number of Percentage their resolution have been monitored closely by our local Total women of women Responsibility team.
Executive Team 10 4 40% Health and safety Leadership Director The Group has a health and safety policy approved by and above 272 140 51% theBoard.
A safety first approach is firmly embedded in All Workforce 10,135 6,806 67% alloperational activities in Burberry.
Governance of our health and safety strategy is maintained through a Global We continue to focus on evolving strategies for recruiting Health and Safety Committee, which is chaired by the and developing key talent within the business in a way which ChiefPeople, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer.
A cross-functional group led Healthandsafety is also considered by the Ethics by the Chief People, Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer Committee andManagement Risk Committee and Audit is working on the next phase of our approach to diversity Committee.
Each region has local committees which assist and inclusion.
We celebrated our continued support for with implementing our health and safety strategy and to theLGBTQ community with our runway show and through help ensure all local regulatory and Burberry Standards are our membership of LGBTQ group INvolve.
As part of this achieved and maintained.
Strategic direction on health and membership, we have nominated senior LGBTQ leaders safety matters is provided by the Senior Manager, Global onto a board readiness programme.
Broadening and Health and Safety and is supported by a global team.
In line deepening our diversity and inclusion agenda is a key with industry best practice, our health and safety goals and priority for the business, and will remain on the Boards objectives are set each year to continually analyse our andthe Groups agenda during the coming year.
performance and support a process for continuous improvements.
In this reporting year, and from our many Further information regarding the Groups employment initiatives, we have seenimprovements across all health policies is provided on the Groups website at and safety topic areas, including a significant reduction in www.
serious employee accidents and a full year without any serious customer accidents.
Our global audit assurance Human rights statement programme has reported a positive increase in average The Group recognises its responsibility to respect human audit outcomes.
rights wherever it operates and conducted a Human Rights Impact Assessment in 2015 to identify the most salient risks The Strategic Report from pages 3 to 67 and Directors in this area.
This assessment was reviewed and updated in Report from pages 96 to 121 have been approved by the 2017.
The Group believes that potential risks arise in Board on 15 May 2018. relation to its own workforce, its supply chain and communities, and its customers.
Burberrys Human Rights By order of the Board Policy sets out the Companys commitments to respecting these stakeholders human rights.
The policy is informed by PAUL TUNNACLIFFE Company Secretary the International Bill of Human Rights and reflects the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights framework to Protect, Respect and Remedy.
Responsibility for the policy lies with Burberrys Chief Executive Officer.
Burberry 15 May 2018 has an established global team, which works to promote human rights and good labour practices in the Burberry Burberry Group plc Registered Office: workplace as well as in the Companys supply chain, as identified and prioritised through Human Rights Impact Horseferry House Horseferry Road Assessments.
Burberry provides grievance mechanisms forits global employees, as well as confidential hotlines in London SW1P 2AW its supply chain where local labour laws are weak, absent or poorly enforced.
Burberry publishes its Modern Slavery Registered in England and Wales Statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
Registered number: 03458224 We assess human rights impacts and monitor labour conditions in both our own operations and our supply chainon a regular basis to ensure our Human Rights Policy is upheld.
For example, where we find that access to grievance mechanisms is a particular challenge, we make ita priority to introduce confidential, NGO-run hotlines.
Currently, more than 10,000 workers across 21 factories are provided with improved access to remedy and confidential 125 Financial statements As we evolve our business, it is fundamentally important that we build on a strong financial position.
In FY 2017 18 wedelivered an improvement in operating margin, double digit adjusted EPS growth at constant exchange rates and continued reinforcement of our balance sheet.
Julie Brown Chief Operating and Financial Officer
