STRATEGIC REPORT Responsibility BURBERRYS RESPONSIBILITY AGENDA IS the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization and the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code.
DESIGNED TO DRIVE POSITIVE CHANGE With our new responsibility strategy, we are taking our AND BUILD A MORE SUSTAINABLE supply chain programmes to the next level, focusing on: FUTURE THROUGH INNOVATION.
WE HAVE SET OURSELVES AMBITIOUS GOALS More sustainable raw materials: Cotton, cashmere and leather are three of our key raw materials, representing FOR 2022 THAT SIT ACROSS BURBERRYS approximately 30% of our overall greenhouse gas ENTIRE FOOTPRINT.
We are focused on improving the traceability and sourcing of these materials and have set two goals During the year, we launched our new five-year for 2022: to procure 100% of cotton through the Better responsibility strategy called Creating Tomorrows Cotton Initiative currently at 21% and source 100% of Heritage.
It sets out ambitious goals to address our most leather from tanneries with environmental, traceability material social and environmental impacts, while supporting and social compliance certifications.
In 2015, we seed the Burberry Foundation UK registered charity number funded the establishment of the Sustainable Fibre 1154468 in creating long-term partnerships to fuel Alliance and continue to support the organisation to innovation and transform communities.
helppromote sustainable cashmere production in Mongolia.
Beyond improving supply chain impacts, Developing this strategy has involved key functions across theseprogrammes aim to stimulate system change and the business, from Supply Chain and Product Development make sustainable materials more mainstream across to Retail.
It has also been informed and guided by our theindustry.
Responsibility Advisory Committee, comprising external expert stakeholders from the NGO, social enterprise and Worker wellbeing and livelihoods: Our ethical trading academic sectors.
teams based in London, Florence, Hong Kong and Tokyo visit supply chain partners on a regular basis, engaging Goals for 2022 are owned by our senior leadership team with both management and workers to review and supported by cross-functional delivery groups.
With our Ethical Progress is reviewed on a regular basis by our Inspired Trading Programme evolving year-on-year, we are People Committee and Transformation Management Office increasingly focusing on how we can make the most and is assessed against key commitments and performance meaningful, positive impacts on the lives of people indicators covering three areas: throughout our supply chain.
During FY 2017 18, we conducted 446 audits and assessments 477 in FY 2016 17 PRODUCT and completed 263 training and engagement visits 234 in FY 2016 17, to support partners in building stronger DRIVING POSITIVE CHANGE human resource management.
Participation in our THROUGH ALL OUR PRODUCTS Vendor Ownership Programme has more than doubled, We create products using the highest-quality materials and from 6 to 15 vendors, building our partners capacity to involving many manufacturing communities from across the set up their own ethical trading programmes and monitor world.
As part of our new responsibility strategy, we are working conditions in their upstream supply chain.
We committed to ensuring that all our products have more than are now working with supply chain partners to help them one positive attribute by 2022. move beyond compliance and drive long-term positive impacts for their workers.
In collaboration with Oxfam, Positive attributes relate to social and or environmental we have developed an innovative Worker Wellbeing improvements achieved at either the raw material sourcing Survey and piloted it with key supply chain partners or manufacturing stage.
A product may, for example, carry a inEurope.
positive attribute if it is made from cotton sourced through the Better Cotton Initiative, or if it was manufactured in a Environmental sustainability: We have continued our facility with health and wellbeing initiatives for its workers.
efforts to improve chemical management, reduce energy In the first year of our strategy, we have reached 28% of and water consumption and increase the use of product with one positive attribute and a further 14% of renewable energy in our supply chain.
Our chemical product with more than one positive attribute.
management programme is focused on control of hazardous substances and effluent treatment in our Our supply chain activities have long been guided by our supply chain.
Testing results and progress against our Responsible Business Principles, which are underpinned by Project 2020 commitments are reported regularly the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, onwww.
We work closely with Please see page 47 for details on external assurance 44 STRATEGIC REPORT % OF PRODUCTS WITH POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES ourpartners to improve chemical management practices andsupport research into new technologies, while taking steps to eliminate the use of chemicals that may have anegative impact on the environment, going above and beyond the required international environmental and safety standards.
In partnership with the Natural Resource Defence Council NRDC, we have continued toevolve our Energy & Water Reduction programme, which has been modelled on the NRDC Clean by Design principles.
Currently, we have 28 supply chain partners participating in the programme, including 15 facilities with wet processing.
In FY 2017 18, nine facilities achieved a5% reduction in energy or water consumption, resultingin 15% of products with a positive attribute.
Wewillcontinue to work with the NRDC to strengthen ourprogramme and our monitoring and evaluation framework.
We also started working with key supply chain partners, raising awareness and facilitating the transition 14% WITH MORE THAN ONE POSITIVE ATTRIBUTE to renewable energy sources wherever possible.
28% WITH ONE POSITIVE ATTRIBUTE 58% WITH POSITIVE ATTRIBUTES IN DEVELOPMENT Materials innovation: Ever since our founder, ThomasBurberry, invented gabardine in 1879, materials Please see page 47 for details on external assurance innovation has formed part of our heritage.
In June 2017, we supported the Burberry Foundation in setting up a five-year partnership with the Royal College of Art, to establish the Burberry Material Futures Research Group, the first of its kind in the world, and expand the Burberry Design Scholarship Fund to benefit more than 30 students by 2022.
The new Research Group is the first explicit STEAM research centre at a traditional art and design university, applying radical thinking to invent more sustainable materials, advance manufacturing processes and transform user experiences.
All research will be made publicly available for the benefit of our industry and the wider community.
Further details of our supply chain activities, including our ethical trading programme and human rights statement, are available at www.
45 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY retail network is responsible for 74% of our direct carbon emissions.
Over the year, new energy targets have been BECOMING CARBON NEUTRAL set for stores globally, which are owned by regional AND REVALUING WASTE leadership and reinforced by a programme of awareness In addition to driving environmental improvements in the raising, training and technical support.
During 2017 18 we supply chain, we are committed to addressing climate have reduced our global, absolute energy consumption by change impacts from our own operations, including offices, 4%, mainly through behavioural changes and LED lighting.
stores, manufacturing and distribution sites.
At the same time, we now procure 48% of our total energy including 56% of our electricity from renewable We have set two goals for 2022: to become carbon neutral sources, an increase of 24% from last year.
In June 2017, in our own operations, with a focus on driving energy we joined RE100, committing to 100% renewable energy efficiencies and renewable energy procurement: and to by 2022.
We assess our progress towards carbon revalue waste, by leading a makers movement and creating neutrality by looking at the reduction in our total innovative solutions to the endemic waste challenge facing market-based CO e emissions year on year.
As members of the Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability A4S initiative, we have also Revaluing waste: We are committed to reducing, reusing signed a letter supporting the recommendations of the and recycling any waste we create.
For example, during Financial Stability Boards Task Force for Climate-related FY 2017 18 we have recycled 52 tonnes of damaged Financial Disclosures.
garments into geotextile materials and 51 tonnes of pre-consumer textile waste into regenerated yarns, Becoming carbon neutral: We aim to achieve a zerofabrics and automotive insulation materials.
Across key carbon footprint by improving energy efficiency, reducing UK operations, comprising our internal manufacturing and absolute consumption and switching to renewable energy distribution sites in Northern England and our head office sources, before offsetting any remaining emissions.
Our and retail stores in London, during FY 2017 18 we sent Energy and global greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are included below.
Year to 31 March 2018 Emissions from: FY 2017 18 FY 2016 17 FY 2015 16 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 Kg CO e 2,118,811 2,128,334 2,141,106 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 Kg CO e 32,224,933 34,041,594 35,549,662 2 Total emissions location based Scope 1 & 2 Kg CO e 34,343,744 36,169,928 37,690,769 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 Kg CO e MARKET-BASED APPROACH 18,103,416 23,230,021 2 Total emissions market-based Scope 1 & 2 Kg CO e 20,222,227 25,358,355 2 Intensity measurement Location based Kg CO e per 1,000 sales revenue 13 13 15 2 % of Energy kWh from renewable sources 48% 37% Note: Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational boundaries.
Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry has the ability to influence energy management.
Data is not reported for sites where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy management for those sites, such as a concession within a department store.
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 95% of our sq.
The Company uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using a location and market-based approach to reporting Scope 2 emissions to estimate emissions and applies conversion factors from Defra and IEA guidance.
All material sources of emissions are reported.
Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in Company vehicles were deemed not material and are not reported.
Burberry has updated greenhouse gas data for FY 2015 16 and FY 2016 17 to account for updated emission factors and improvements in data availability and estimation methods.
Further detail is available within Burberrys basis of reporting at www.
Please see page 47 for details on external assurance 46 STRATEGIC REPORT zero waste to landfill.
A further, significant waste stream The aim is to inspire and prepare young people for the for the luxury fashion industry is leather.
Even when world of work and raise their awareness of the variety product patterns are very carefully planned to maximise ofcareer paths possible in the creative industries.
the use of a hide, the process inevitably creates a large In the first few months of the partnership, over 800 amount of small offcuts, which are usually destroyed.
In students have already been engaged through school 2017, we started donating leather offcuts to Elvis & workshops, inspiration days and work experience weeks Kresse, a sustainable luxury company that creates at Burberry.
In addition, three new Careers & Enterprise lifestyle accessories by re-engineering waste material Coordinators have been appointed, improving access to through innovative craftsmanship.
This supports a local employers and career opportunities for more than broader, five-year partnership between the Burberry 10,000 students this year.
Foundation and Elvis & Kresse, which aims to transform at least 120 tonnes of Burberry leather offcuts into a range Fostering community cohesion and supporting youth of new products, designed and sold by Elvis & Kresse, and employability in Italy: A further Burberry Foundation by doing so affect real change in the leather goods partnership was established with Oxfam to support industry.
Half the profits from this range will be donated community cohesion and youth employability in Tuscany, to charitable organisations promoting renewable energy, Italy.
The Florentine area is renowned for its garment and while the remaining half will be reinvested by Elvis & luxury leather goods production, with a strong tradition Kresse to expand their work and generate impactful of creativity and craftsmanship.
However, in recent years apprenticeship and work experience opportunities.
the region has faced challenging levels of poverty, youth In its first few months, the partnership has already unemployment and economic migration.
Together with rescued approximately two tonnes of waste and inspired Oxfam, the Burberry Foundation aims to foster cohesion over 1,000 potential makers about waste revaluation.
between local and migrant communities through multicultural spaces and events, innovative youth COMMUNITIES employability programmes and a network of facilitators dedicated to improving access to community support POSITIVELY IMPACTING ONE MILLION PEOPLE services.
Since the programme launched in October 2017, We have a long history of investing in the communities in over 400 community members have benefitted from which we operate, enabling employees to dedicate up educational and recreational activities.
tothree working days a year to support their local communities and donating each year 1% of adjusted Group Supporting social and economic empowerment of rural profit before tax to charitable causes.
These range from communities in Afghanistan: Despite persistent armed supporting disaster relief efforts, for example the London conflict and extreme poverty, Afghanistan remains the Grenfell fire, South Asia Floods, hurricanes Harvey and Irma world's third-largest producer of cashmere fibre, behind and the Mexico earthquake, to nurturing emerging talent Mongolia and China, and a key sourcing region for the through scholarships at the Royal College of Art, with a luxury fashion industry.
In partnership with Oxfam and significant proportion going to the Burberry Foundation.
PUR Projet, the Burberry Foundation has launched a Weaim to achieve our one million goal mainly by supporting five-year programme, the first of its kind in the country, Burberry Foundation-led community programmes and, to develop a more inclusive and sustainable cashmere during FY 2017 18, have helped to positively impact industry and help herders enhance their livelihoods.
programme will facilitate the development of communityowned collective action organisations, pro-actively Over the last year, the Burberry Foundation has evolved involving women in their design and management, and will itsagenda taking a more strategic and long-term provide herders with the knowledge, technical skills, tools approach and partnering with leading organisations to and services to advance sustainable farming and support communities sustaining the luxury industry.
Its economic development in the region.
efforts are specifically tailored to address local social and or environmental priorities, with a view to tackling the EXTERNAL ASSURANCE OF CORPORATE causes as well as treating the symptoms: RESPONSIBILITY DISCLOSURES Burberry has appointed  LLP PwC Tackling educational inequality and enhancing career to provide limited assurance over selected Company, advice for young people in the UK: In August 2017, the Product and Community information for FY 2017 18.
The Burberry Foundation launched partnerships with three information which forms part of the assurance scope is organisations, Teach First, the Careers & Enterprise denoted with a on pages 44 to 47.
The assurance Company and MyKindaFuture, to support young people in statement and Burberrys basis of reporting are available disadvantaged communities across Yorkshire and London.
com, as part of the Responsibility - Performance section.
