Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Performance measures Caledonia uses a number of performance measures to Annual dividends aid the understanding of its results.
The performance Annual dividends are dividends declared as part of the measures are standard within the investment trust companys recurring dividend cycle and are typically paid industry and Caledonias use of such measures out of earnings in a financial year.
growth is the compound annual dividend growth rate over the period.
Net assets Net assets provides a measure of the value of the Dividend cover company to shareholders and is taken from the IFRS Dividend cover is the ratio of net revenue as defined group net assets.
above to the annual dividend payable to shareholders out of profits for the year.
It helps to indicate the sustainability Net asset value NAV of annual dividends.
NAV is a measure of the value of the company, being its assets principally investments made in other companies Total shareholder return TSR and cash held minus any liabilities expressed as pence TSR measures the return to shareholders through the per share.
NAV is calculated by dividing net assets by the movement in the share price and dividends paid during number of shares in issue, adjusted for shares held by the the measurement period.
Employee Share Trust and for dilution by the exercise of Investment and pool returns outstanding share awards.
NAV takes account of dividends The company uses the modified Dietz method as a payable on the ex-dividend date.
measure of the performance of an investment or pool NAV total return NAVTR over a period.
This method divides the gain or loss in value NAVTR is a measure of how the net asset value per share plus any income, less any capital cash flows, by the has performed over a period, considering both capital average capital invested over the period of measurement.
returns and dividends paid to shareholders.
NAVTR is The company also uses internal rate of return IRR, being calculated as the increase in NAV between the beginning the discount rate that makes the net present value of all and end of the period, plus the accretion from assumed cash flows from an investment equal to zero, and dividend reinvestment during the period.
NAVTR assumes realisation multiples or money returns, being the that dividends are reinvested at the NAV on the cumulative returns from an investment divided by the ex-dividend date.
total investment, as an indicator of the performance of individual investments on exit.
Net revenue Net revenue comprises income from investments less management expenses, financing costs and tax.
Net revenue comprises the revenue column presented in the Statement of comprehensive income and differs from total comprehensive income in excluding gains and losses on investments and other items of a capital nature.
The separation of revenue and capital profits and losses is required by the AIC SORP as of fundamental importance to shareholders and other users of the financial statements of investment trust companies.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 25 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Performance measures continued Ongoing charges Ongoing charges represent the operational expenses of managing the portfolio in normal circumstances.
The company adopts the AIC methodology for calculating the ongoing charges as the annualised ongoing charges divided by the average undiluted net asset value per share in the period.
Expense items included in the ongoing charges calculation comprise recurring costs relating to the operation of the company.
In addition to transaction costs and external performance fees, ongoing charges exclude share-based payment expenses, which are directly linked to investment performance, and re-measurement of defined benefit pension schemes, also linked to market movements.
Share-based payments comprise awards under the companys performance share scheme, which vest subject to achieving NAVTR targets, as well as service requirements.
Similarly, deferred bonus awards arise from annual bonus awards over 50% of basic salary, which relate to the companys investment performance.
26 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018
