Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of Multiples fair value at the reporting date, in accordance with IFRS This methodology involves the application of an earnings 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair value is the amount for multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business and which an asset could be exchanged between is likely to be appropriate for an investment in an knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms established business with an identifiable stream of length transaction.
The earnings multiple used is most commonly earnings Publicly traded securities before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Investments listed in an active market are valued at their EBITDA and is determined by reference to marketbid price on the reporting date.
When a bid price is based or transaction multiples appropriate for the unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction will business.
Where possible, an average of several normally be used.
appropriate market multiples will be used.
The aim is to Unlisted companies identify comparator companies that are similar in terms of Unlisted company investments are valued by applying an risk and growth prospects to the company being valued.
appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum Earnings multiples may be adjusted for lack of liquidity or use of market-based information, is consistent with specific points of difference between the comparator and models generally used by market participants and is the company being valued where appropriate.
applied consistently from period to period, except where Maintainable earnings are assessed using the latest a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Earnings and balance sheet data The value of an unlisted company investment is generally are adjusted where appropriate for exceptional or crystallised through the sale or flotation of the entire non-recurring items and an average of more than one business, rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
years earnings may be used to estimate maintainable Therefore, the estimation of fair value is based on the earnings for cyclical or volatile businesses.
assumed realisation of the underlying business at the Net assets reporting date, based on the International Private The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate for Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines a business whose value derives mainly from the December 2015.
Recognition is given to the uncertainties underlying value of its assets rather than its ongoing inherent in estimating the fair value of unlisted companies earnings, such as a property holding company or an and appropriate caution is applied in exercising judgments investment business.
It may also be appropriate for a and making the necessary estimates.
business that is not making an adequate return on assets Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the and for which a greater value can be realised by following valuation methodologies: liquidating the business and selling its assets.
A third party valuation may be used to give the fair value of a certain Price of recent investment asset or group of assets, most commonly property assets.
Where the investment being valued was recently acquired or a recent market transaction has taken place, its cost or transaction price will generally provide a good indication of fair value.
This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period after the date of the relevant transaction.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 23 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Valuation methodology continued Fund interests Fund interests refer to participations in externally managed investment vehicles that invest in a wider range of assets than is feasible for an individual investor and share the costs and benefits.
Open-ended funds, including investment companies with variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate fair value.
If the price reported by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the latest available price is used and may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to the reporting date, if material.
Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment companies and limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value of the underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived using fair value principles and may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to the reporting date.
Adjustment may also be necessary for features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as performance fees or carried interest.
Other investments Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments that are not publicly traded and do not form part of an investment in an unlisted company.
For such investments, appropriate valuation techniques are adopted and used consistently.
24 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018
