Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Responsibility statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Disclosure of information to auditors the annual report and the financial statements Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the report confirms that: Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of which the companys auditor is unaware Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 2. the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of have prepared the group and parent company financial any relevant audit information and to establish that the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting companys auditor is aware of that information.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of Act 2006. the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Responsibility statements under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the UK select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Corporate Governance Code consistently Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable pages 32 and 33 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: and prudent 1. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of explained in the group and parent company financial statements the group respectively 2. the strategic report contained on pages 2 to 31 includes a fair prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis review of the development and performance of the business unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will and the position of the group, together with a description of the continue in business.
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Signed on behalf of the board by: records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them Will Wyatt Stephen King to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Chief Executive Finance Director remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 24 May 2018 24 May 2018 Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance and position, business model and strategy.
64 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018
