16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Industry Overview This industry overview provides an independent Energy trends 1 view of the industry context in which With many world economies returning In the nearer term, the main drivers will Cairn operates.
to growth after the economic downturn, continue to be rising US production, overall global energy demand is sanctions on Iran, OPECs behaviour, and expected to rise.
Venezuelas current political and economic crisis.
Oil production in the US There is consensus among many has continued its upward trend organisations, including the International throughout 2018, driven mostly by Energy Agency, that world energy growing tight oil production.
Rig numbers demand will increase by around a quarter were up by 20% last year compared to 1 by 2040.
The extent and composition of 2017, which signals further increases in this growth is uncertain, with unknown output as we head into 2019.
In December technical progress and government 2018, OPEC agreed to reduce output by policies on climate change influencing the 800,000 barrels per day for six months About the authors: market supply and demand for different from January 2019, reinforced by OPEC Dr Julian Fennema Honorary Associate fuels.
On the supply side, at the current Plus members, including Russia, Professor at Heriot-Watt University.
discovery rate, there is little doubt that we committing to cut production by a further Dr Erkal Ersoy Assistant Professor at will experience a supply gap in the future.
These cuts, Heriot-Watt University, Centre for Energy Although opinions vary on how soon the together with the re-imposition of Economics Research and Policy.
gap will emerge and how large it will be, sanctions on Iran by the US in November, most sources agree that a shortage is placed an upward pressure on prices.
Heriot-Watt University is one of the UKs on the horizon with an upward pressure leading universities for business and industry on prices.
The underlying reason is and has a reputation for innovative education, straightforward: not enough is being enterprise, and leading-edge research.
Energy research is a core activity within Heriot-Watt University, and the Centre for Energy Economics Research and Policy CEERP is the latest evidence of the Universitys commitment to research in energy, economics, and policy.
CEERP is based within the Institute of Petroleum North Sea activity Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, 2 but forms a key point of support and collaboration among the Universitys Schools with affiliates from the School of Energy, As the industry gains momentum, Development expenditure is expected to Geoscience, Infrastructure, and Society: School available capital may need to be pick up in 2019.
This will be partly due to of Social Sciences: and the Energy Academy diverted to forward-looking projects new players entering the market and as well as honorary academics outwith with long-term payoff.
partly due to BP and Shells capital the University.
commitments to continue sanctioning There is capital available to do this and new projects as well as building on 3 there are signs of recovery, but the existing infrastructure.
According to 4 industry has yet to commit.
Exploratory Wood Mackenzie, new operators 1 U. S. Energy Information Administration drilling in the North Sea has continued to entering the North Sea will account for 2 www.
gov dnav pet hist LeafHandler.
dwindle in 2018, reaching its 1965 levels.
80% of greenfield final investment ashx?n PET&s E ERTRRO XR0 NUS C&f M. 5 However, although production activity decisions FIDs expected in 2019.
co. uk has stabilised since 2015, the life of older Company strategies differ, of course, and data-centre  is being extended and forecasts greenfield developments are not the only publications well-data.
Rystads press signal recovery in exploratory activity, focus on this group: some have adopted release www.
com newsevents news press-releases  the Norwegian sector experiencing an acquire and exploit approach, where exploration-drilling shows that this is the largest share of the growth.
Johan under-capitalised assets operational happening on a global scale, hence the Sverdrup, one of the biggest oil fields processes are streamlined to optimise imminent supply gap as discussed above.
discovered in Norwegian waters, holds production and lower costs.
3 September 2018 Update of Oil and Gas promising potential for growth in Norway, Independently of the choice between Authority OGA Projections of UK Oil and Gas while in the UK, west of Shetland is the greenfield and brownfield investments, Production and Expenditure.
com news opinion north-seafocus of attention.
this dynamic group is bringing new  opportunities with them and, in 2019, this 5 Among these are Azinor Catalyst, Chrysaor, augurs well for North Sea activity.
Neptune Energy, Siccar Point, Vr Energy, Verus Petroleum, Wellesley Petroleum and Zennor Petroleum.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategic Report Global exploration 3 Exploration budgets continue to tighten, The Atlantic margins continue to provide 2018 reversed the falling with less than 10% of upstream budgets exploration success: in recent years on trend of the previous two allocated to the search for new the West African side in Senegal and years to become the best resources against a long-term average Mauritania, whereas 2018 was dominated in excess of 15%.
by the Guyana-Suriname basin with year for conventional ExxonMobil adding more than 2bn of hydrocarbon discoveries Despite this financial discipline, 2018 recoverable oil reserves to reach over 5bn since 2015. reversed the falling trend of the previous barrels in the area.
Elsewhere, the US Gulf two years to become the best year for of Mexico hosted exploration success for conventional hydrocarbon discoveries more majors, Chevron and Shell together since 2015, partially as a result of greater adding more than 700mn barrels to cost efficiency within declining budgets.
However, this is just over half that This said, the expected discovery level of reported for Russia, with Novatek leading 9.4 billion bn barrels remains well below Gazprom with the North Obskoye field, at the 17bn in 2015 and well below the days 935mn boe just below the 1bn barrel mark of the 30bn increase in 2012. of an elephant-sized field.
Cost and investment cycles 4 In recent years, the mid-caps and The upward pressure on the price of a other areas such as the North Sea are only specialist explorers have made the barrel tightens the market for inputs to the recently showing signs of cost inflation.
exploration headlines, but the 2018 production process, and vice versa.
The On the other hand, other sectors such as discoveries evidence a renewed graph below clearly shows the linkages the deepwater market are yet to tighten, appetite for exploration amongst between the oil price and the capital cost although increases through 2018 in the the supermajors.
the cost of constructing a producing utilisation rates for FPSOs are a sign of the facility and the operating cost the ongoing potential for price increases into the future.
This shift away from value creation through cost of producing from this facility.
The M&A activity is set to continue as these 2018 data reveals the cost price inflation A key determinant of this will be FIDs being companies have taken on significant that is underway again, albeit that this considered in boardrooms, where 2018 exploration positions along the West aggregated data conceals significant saw continued weakness in the number African coastline, searching for the next regional divergences.
and value of projects being sanctioned.
Some of this is due to delays, however, Globally, the US saw the highest oil and so will create a boost to the already production growth, but this is accompanied high expectations set for 2019 into 2020. with double digit cost growth whereas IHS cost and Brent crude price indices 250 500 200 400 150 300 100 200 50 100 0 0 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 Operating costs Capital costs Oil price Source: IHS Markit EIA Cost indices Price index
