46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly Working responsibly means having the right values, principles and policies in place to deliver lasting, positive social environmental and economic benefits.
We operate to industry-leading standards in health, safety, security and environmental HSSE management and corporate social responsibility.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Strategic Report Working responsibly is part of our strategy The risk registers and stakeholder The review identified areas in our assessment Ensuring we work responsibly is embedded feedback are the two main sources we process that were potentially leading to the in the way we run our business.
In delivering use when determining our material issues.
reporting of issues that were not necessarily our strategy, we annually measure our of high materiality, alongside those which performance against a series of Key Prioritising our material issues were.
To address this, an adapted Performance Indicators KPIs.
There are Understanding and prioritising the issues methodology was developed and tested.
elements of working responsibly in each that matter to our business and to our Following a preliminary assessment of issues of those KPIs, with one of them, Maintain stakeholders enables us to address the by the consultant, staff around the Licence to Operate, dedicated to it.
organisation were asked to feed in their perceptions of key issues from different To help us achieve the Maintain Licence In May 2018, we engaged an external stakeholder perspectives at a workshop.
This to Operate KPI, we set annual Corporate independent consultant to review our was used to inform and validate the updated Responsibility CR Objectives.
This involved: materiality assessment process.
Objectives were approved by the Board and revisiting general reporting grouped under four themes: Governance: requirements from the Financial Society: People: and Environment.
Reporting Council FRC and the London Stock Exchange: To ensure we are working responsibly, we considering industry-specific guidance continually assess the material issues under from the Global Reporting Initiative these four themes.
We do this through our GRI, Sustainable Accounting Board risk management process, which identifies Standard SASB and IPIECA: and the issues that are most important to our comparing our approach with that of business, and through stakeholder 10 peer companies.
engagement see page 14, which identifies those of greatest significance to our stakeholders.
Through our Group risk management framework see page 32, we regularly review how our risks are managed, and record them in corporate, operational and project risk registers.
Contracted drilling rig for UK and Norway operations, 2018 48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued 19 issues of high materiality were identified in 2018 Materiality methodology and analysis In 2018, we rationalised these themes now We also now assess importance to In previous years, we looked at materiality titled Governance, People, Society and stakeholders across five different under four themes: Business Relationships: Environment and identified 57 issues of stakeholder groups investors, governments, Society and Communities: People: and potential importance to both Cairn and our employees, local community interest groups Environment.
In 2017 under these themes, stakeholders.
19 of these were assessed and business partners peers.
Importance we reported on 15 topics, covering a wide as high materiality to both Cairn and to Cairn is assessed based on risk and range of issues.
These were plotted on a our stakeholders.
in line with our risk register, which is materiality matrix showing both importance updated quarterly.
to stakeholders and importance to Cairn.
Materiality matrix Theme Materiality Governance People High materiality Society Medium materiality Environment Low materiality - Business Partner Alignment - Tax and Payments to Govs - Funding - Investment - JV Partner Funding - Workplace Health and - ABC Practices - Gov ABC Well-Being - Major Accident Prevention - Contractor Selection - Human Capital Development - Security of Personnel - Security & Human Rights - Office Security - Asset Security - Local Community Stakeholders - Demonstrating Value and Measuring Impact - Working Conditions T&Cs - Ops.
in Sensitive Environments - Remuneration - Contractor ABC - Anti-discrimination employees - Infectious Diseases - Equal Pay, Equal Opportunity - Climate Change Policy and - Workplace Culture and - Indigenous Peoples Rights Planning Employee Leadership - Local Labour Development - Global Energy Transition - Talent Attraction - Economic & Physical - Workplace safety - Freedom of Association Displacement - GHG, Flaring and Venting - Modern Slavery - Local Content - Local Energy Access - Other Emissions - Discharges to Water and Land - Biodiversity and Sensitive Areas - Advocacy & Lobbying - Corporate Governance - Ineffective Whistleblowing - Data Protection - Management of Risks - Materials Use - Cultural Heritage - Energy Use and Alternative - Community Health Sources - Grievances - Social Investment - Environmental or health impact - Water Abstraction and Use - Reduce, Recycle and Waste from product sales Management - Use of Local Resources - Anti-discrimination - Anticompetitive Behaviour non-employees Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Importance to stakeholders Importance to Cairn based on risk Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Strategic Report Governance Strong corporate governance and effective risk management are vital if we are to remain a sustainable, successful business.
With this in mind, we have developed a comprehensive framework of business policies, systems and procedures that enable us to assess and manage risk effectively.
Transparency Anti-bribery and corruption ABC We aim to make a positive contribution to our Taking a clear stand on ethical matters is Governance people, the communities in which we operate the key to delivering value, building trust Issues covered and society in general.
This includes the and maintaining our licence to operate.
Our in this section: value distributed through salaries, taxes, zero-tolerance position on fraud, bribery and share dividends and payments to authorities, corruption continues to attract scrutiny from a Ethics contractors and suppliers, as well as capital wide range of stakeholders and could affect spending and social investment.
our reputation, our ability to access funding, Climate change policy and planning and our impact on people and communities.
Business partner alignment on CR issues As a listed public company, we report annually in line with UK regulations, and In 2018, we developed an ABC training Transparency respond to all queries and requests for module for staff working in high-risk Tax and payments to governments information from investors, financial analysts, countries: it was first delivered in November shareholder representatives and other 2018.
Since then, we have added a new concerned stakeholders.
e-learning module on our integrated Code Economics and Funding of Ethics, which includes ABC training on Funding The investors section on our website metrics issues.
Global energy transition provides relevant, up-to-date information, Investment including details of our Group Tax Strategy.
We encourage employees to report any We also report transparently on payments incident of concern by speaking directly JV partners and funding to governments, in compliance with EU to their regional director.
Whistleblowing legislation and as part of our voluntary charity Public Concern at Work also offers Anti-Bribery and Corruption commitment to the Extractive Industries a confidential phone line for staff to use.
Anti-bribery and corruption practices Transparency Initiative EITI.
Governments and authorities practices Economics and funding 48 Read more: Materiality Matrix on P48 Working responsibly is an important factor in maintaining access to funding.
Increasingly, investors are asking us to demonstrate our Ethics responsible working culture and practices Our ability to do business depends on the when making investment decisions.
trust of our stakeholders, including investors, governments, business partners, suppliers We recognise the increasing pressure on and broader society.
This means that we need our industry to improve performance within to work in an ethical and transparent way.
Volatile oil prices continue to be a principal risk, so When selecting and working with business efficient capital allocation is vital.
However, partners, we pay particular attention to the the need to improve cost efficiency never application of our Code of Ethics and compromises our operating standards.
compliance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act and the Equality Act.
Our integrated audit plan assesses supply chain risks for all projects, with a focus on modern slavery, anti-bribery and corruption, and HSSE.
All partners receive copies of our policies and our Code of Ethics, and must Simon Thomson, CEO and Miles Warner, General agree to adhere to them.
See our CR report Manager Senegal www.
com working-responsibly for more information.
US$32.6m 0 34% payments to governments incidents of non-compliance with the of employees trained in Cairns Code of Ethics anti-corruption policies and procedures 50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Governance continued Case study: Governance Auditing and updating our Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS The report, and subsequent action plan We also commissioned an external We subject our CRMS to to address the one finding to increase gap analysis of the CRMS against an annual audit.
In 2018, this communication with the Board on ISO45001:2018, the latest Occupational included a re-verification of improvements to the CRMS and four other Health and Safety Management Systems the environmental component observations, were accepted by the auditor Requirements standard.
The analysis, 1 against OSPAR recommendation and submitted to the UK regulator, the produced in August 2018, highlighted Department of Business Energy and four observations.
An appropriate action 2003 5, a requirement for Industrial Strategy BEIS.
plan was developed for implementation operating in the United Kingdom in 2019.
Continental Shelf UKCS and the Republic of Ireland.
1 OSPAR is the mechanism by which 15 European governments and the EU cooperate to protect the marine environment of the North East Atlantic.
OSPAR is named after the original Oslo OS and Paris PAR Conventions.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Strategic Report Global energy transition: climate change, policy and planning Whilst climate change is assessed as corporate issues read more about Managing physical and social risks: If medium importance to Cairn, we recognise emerging risks on page 34.
We continually facilities and infrastructure are adversely it as an emerging risk.
Nevertheless we challenge our thinking and assess the risks impacted by extreme or changing assess climate change as a high materiality of significant disruption and uncertainty in environmental conditions, this can increase issue because of its high importance to our sector.
By contrast, we also recognise operational downtime and costs, reduce stakeholders.
that opportunities can arise from, for revenue and increase safety risks.
The example, the potential of gas as a transition reduced availability of natural resources Emerging risks from climate change fuel and the future role of carbon capture such as water could also impact Our approach to climate change continues and storage CCS.
project continuity, social unrest and the to include measuring and reporting our expectations of local stakeholders.
GHG emissions, and the promotion of Managing financial risks: While we have We gained further insight from the latest efficient energy use in our activities.
In seen some financial institutions reduce or predictions on the potential physical risks addition, we consider the risks and remove their commitment to hydrocarbon arising from climate change at a joint IOGP 3 opportunities associated with our projects, investment in the last year, this does not JCOMM WCRP workshop.
and build climate change considerations detract from the economic or social into investment decisions.
During 2018, an In 2018, we focused on evaluating these external consultant completed a specialist strategic risks and opportunities, and We also engage with stakeholders resilience review of our portfolio against developing a robust position to on mitigation and adaptation measures selected climate change scenarios, communicate with our shareholders through industry associations, as well considering value creation under a variety and other stakeholders.
as contributing to local programmes that of conditions.
The results suggest that our address environmental and social impacts.
existing production non-operated and Monitoring change and transparency planned development assets create value In 2019, we will build on our recent Global energy demand and transition in a carbon-constrained world, with all resilience review by developing a The International Energy Agency IEA assets remaining NPV positive under the monitoring dashboard.
This will help us World Energy Outlook 2018 https: range of scenarios tested.
The review also to monitor changes and developments webstore.
org suggests that global indicated that our existing hydrocarbon regarding climate change, and keep the energy use could increase by more than price stress testing uses more challenging Board informed.
Apart from scenarios than those presented by the coal, the consumption of all other fuel climate change scenarios.
By operating in more heavily regulated sources will increase over that period, even territories such as the UK and Norway, with the significant growth in renewables Managing regulatory risks: Through our we need to comply with new statutory needed to meet the 2C climate target Project Delivery Process, we determine the regulatory reporting requirements.
We 2 committed to under the Paris Agreement.
requirements of the jurisdictions under continue to monitor other corporate As oil and gas will remain a major energy which we operate, such as understanding governance developments, such as source for many years to come, we have a existing legislation and assessing the specific requirements or recommendations significant role to play in helping to meet planned commitments under country from the FRC and the Task Force affordable, sustainable energy demand NDCs Nationally Determined Contributions : on Climate-related Financial during the transition to a low-carbon these included Suriname, Mauritania and Disclosures TCFD.
In the UK, we updated the Board on the status of our nonPotential climate change risks operated Catcher and Kraken assets and opportunities under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme With our GHG emissions mainly relating to Regulations, and looked at preparedness exploration activities see page 60, we for making submissions under the UK Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 32 consider the main risks associated with Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme Read our CR Report at climate change to be longer term, strategic ESOS Phase II.
com working-responsibly 2 Countries across the globe adopted a historic international climate agreement at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC Conference of the Parties COP21 in Paris in December 2015.
The long term goals of the Paris Agreement are to hold the increase in global average temperature to well below 2C, to pursue efforts st to limit the increase to 1.5C and to achieve net zero emissions in the second half of the 21 century.
3 International Association of Oil and Gas Producers IOGP Joint Technical Commission for Oceanography and Marine Meteorology JCOMM World Climate Research Programme WCRP : Our Future Climate Executive Summary.
Understanding the spread of physical risks for the oil and gas industry, September 2018.
52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued People We rely on our teams commitment, talent and knowledge to deliver our strategy safely on a daily basis.
As well as promoting a high-performance culture based on opportunity, equality and diversity, we prioritise procedures and policies designed to avoid accidents and incidents, and to respond to emergency events should they occur.
People Case study: People Issues covered Major accident in this section: prevention policy Safety Workplace safety Asset Integrity and Major Accident Prevention Major accident prevention Contractors Contractor selection Security Security personnel and travel Security of assets Read more: Materiality Matrix on P48 48 Our Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy CMAPP strengthens This section addresses health and safety, our commitment to avoiding major accidents and mitigating risks.
preventing major accidents, security and our relationships with contractors and suppliers.
Required under the EU Offshore Safety Demonstrating and verifying the high For more information on our people strategy, Directive, it was introduced in October levels of competency required among values and High Performing Behaviours, 2017 and is a pre-requisite for our licence our staff and contractors, and please see Our People: Driving Value on to operate in the UKCS and Ireland.
As conducting appropriate training and page 62. part of our preparations for drilling an succession planning to maintain exploration well in the Ekland block, it capability: and Workplace safety was revised and resubmitted to the Transparent assurance processes Providing a safe working environment is a regulators HSE BEIS in July 2018. covering document control, data core corporate responsibility, and minimising management and storage.
risks to people and the environment is of CMAPP places a greater emphasis on: paramount importance to us.
Managing Managing Safety and Environment A new Group-wide CMAPP training safety hazards involves several safe working Critical Elements SECEs, and programme for employees will begin procedures, including management visits, preventing a major incident through in early 2019. audits, a permit-to-work system, toolbox talks robust control and maintenance and safety drills.
The importance of safety mechanisms: management by our contractors is vital and we actively engage with them to ensure that effective systems are in place.
In 2018, we reviewed and revised our CRMS We support all staff who may be exposed Although we have limited direct exposure to see page 50 in relation to ISO45001, the to health risks such as infectious diseases potentially hazardous chemicals and wastes, standard for occupational health and safety through their work, either where we have we still have robust requirements for management systems.
We will implement assets or during visits to prospective business chemical and waste management in our our findings during 2019. locations.
We perform risk assessments to CRMS, to protect human health and the identify and reduce health and other risks environment.
We ensure compatible before travel, and have improved our arrangements from our contractors.
Traveller Health and Security intranet site.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Strategic Report Security We have a duty of care to our people and Case study: Major Accident Prevention we place high importance on protecting our assets, investments, reputation and data.
We Improving our continue to monitor and respond to emerging threats, acting on intelligence received from emergency embassies, civil authorities and contractors.
We participate as a member of the IOGP Security Committee.
response As well as monitoring the security situation capability in existing locations such as Mexico and Senegal, we also look at threats in potential countries of interest.
With an active New Ventures team, we are visiting several locations in Latin America, West Africa and north-west Europe for the first time.
Our due diligence process requires us to assess and address the risks our people may face, both before they travel and while they are away.
To ensure we respond quickly and effectively to a major accident or incident, we have Incident Management Teams IMTs in place in all our operational locations.
In addition, our Crisis and Emergency Response Team CERT in Edinburgh provides both strategic and tactical support, depending on local capability.
In preparation for drilling our UK Ekland operations in the North Sea, one of which well, we engaged a specialist provider, involved Police Scotland and our drilling, Restrata, to provide our IMT, given their helicopter and shipping contractors.
knowledge and expertise within the UK We involved both the Restrata IMT sector.
Restrata provided an Incident and the drilling contractors emergency Management Centre in Aberdeen, response teams.
approved by the UK  SOSREP.
Restratas team The exercises were designed to enhance was on call to coordinate tactical organisational resilience by testing emergency response during the Ekland communication routes, facilities and drilling programme and liaise with the equipment, contingency plans and drilling contractors Ensco emergency assumptions.
Observations and response team and our CERT, should the recommendations were logged need arise.
However, there were no and tracked until they were incidents that required the teams to be subsequently addressed.
called out during our programme.
These are supplemented by online In 2018, our CERT team undertook a self-training modules for each role programme of five crisis management within CERT, and weekly refresher and emergency response exercises.
sessions covering a range of scenarios, Three sessions were specifically including earthquakes, pandemics and designed to prepare for our Ekland business continuity.
Our programme of crisis management and emergency response exercises ensures that we remain ready, competent and confident in our ability to respond to any incident, wherever it may occur.
By understanding how key partners and stakeholders work, everyone can think and act as one cohesive team, ensuring that we meet Cairns high-performing safety behaviours and values.
Matt Smith, Health, Safety and Energy Adviser, Cairn On board the ENSCO 101 drilling rig, UK 54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued People continued Contractors up much of our operational capability.
There were no Lost Time Representing a significant proportion of our We focus on building strong working Injuries or Recordable workforce, contractors and our relationships relationships with contractors who share Incidents, or any oil spills, with them are fundamental to the success the principles and standards we support.
We continue to rely on While contractors are usually international during the Ekland campaign, high-quality suppliers to provide the companies, we continue to promote and which ran from July to expertise, equipment and services that make use local services wherever we can.
In 2018, our main use of local contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF focused on the Ekland well drilled in the Lost time injuries per million hours worked UK.
There were no Lost Time Injuries nor Recordable Incidents, nor any oil spills, during 0.00 the drilling campaign, which ran from July 2018 to September 2018.
0.00 2017 During 2018, we progressed with the 0.27 selection of key contractors for 2019 drilling 1.04 projects in the UK, Norway and Mexico.
2016 0.27 Contractor selection 0.00 Because we need our contractors to share 2015 0.29 our beliefs and meet our standards to maintain our licence to operate, effective 0.65 2014 selection by Cairn, and good performance by 0.36 our contractors, are vital.
All contractors are selected on the basis of adherence to our principles and standards, experience, service Cairn total for employees and contractors capability, competence and competitiveness.
IOGP benchmark To ensure that all our activities conform to our CRMS and Cairn Operating Standards COS, Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR we use an integrated contractor and supply Total recordable injuries per million hours worked chain audit plan.
The plan identifies corporate and operational risks, and develops an assurance and audit programme to 0.00 2018 demonstrate effective controls are in place across systems and processes, as well as on individual rigs and vessels.
0.00 1.88 2017 0.96 1.04 2016 1.03 0.00 2015 1.21 3.88 2014 1.54 Cairn total for employees and contractors IOGP benchmark Notes: IOGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
We have included overall IOGP benchmark figures average of onshore and offshore for employees and contractors.
IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2018.
Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of 40% incidents, because our exploration activities often last for only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours worked compared with on-going production and other long term operations.
of our workforce were contractors Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Strategic Report For many projects, we have used Case study: People Achilles First Point Assessment Contractor selection Limited FPAL database as a pre-selection tool for identifying reliable contractors across Europe.
Given FPALs widespread appeal, we are working to establish a similar system for our operations in Senegal: the African Partner Pool.
Suppliers can register their interest in tenders, training and finance opportunities through this new portal being developed by the nongovernmental organisation NGO Invest in Africa IIA.
IIA was set up four years ago to help small suppliers, initially in Ghana, to build skills and capacity, attract investment and provide credible services to the emerging oil and gas industry.
This also helps local contractors to access our and other operators projects, promoting local capabilities and high standards.
Capricorn Senegal Limited, our operating subsidiary in Senegal, is a founding member of IIA in Senegal, along with joint venture partner Woodside.
North Sea drilling operations supported from Aberdeen port 56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Society While we seek to make a positive difference to society, we also recognise that we must manage and mitigate any potential risks.
Demonstrating value and Sustainable Development Goals SDGs measuring impact as a guiding framework for developing Society We look at impacts beyond our direct Impact Benefit Plans, such as the one Issues covered community to our broader social and for Senegal outlined in the table below.
in this section: economic contributions to the countries More detail is available in our CR report.
com working-responsibly Communities Local community stakeholders and stakeholder engagement Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals in Senegal UN SDGs Social and Economic Benefits Sustainable Development Goal Social and Economic Benefits in Senegal Demonstrating value and measuring impact End poverty in all its Through a pilot project with The Hunger Project THP Human Rights forms everywhere.
designed to drive community-led development, we Working conditions T&Cs are supporting around 22,000 fishermen in seven Security and human rights fishing villages around Yenne.
Read more: Materiality Matrix on P48 48 Ensure inclusive and To increase the number of people with relevant skills equitable quality for employment, we are helping science, technology, education and engineering and maths STEM students at the promote lifelong University of Dakar to develop English language learning opportunities skills, and we are also supporting the development for all.
of an Institute for Oil and Gas.
Promote sustained We will provide access to energy through the inclusive and development of oil and gas reserves to meet sustainable economic Senegals national energy strategy.
growth, full and We are also a founding member of IIA in Senegal, productive helping to raise awareness of local opportunities employment and among small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs decent work for all.
and prepare them for potential participation in the oil and gas industry.
Ensure sustainable Effective waste management is an important focus consumption and throughout all our activities.
As part of our efforts, we have supported the establishment of a community-based plastics recycling business.
Build effective, Globally, we support the UN Global Compact, accountable and promote efforts towards achieving the UN SDGs inclusive institutions and are an active member of the EITI.
We also work with institutions in Senegal to support English language training and other capacity building.
Visiting The Hunger Project, Senegal Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Strategic Report Social impacts and opportunities Assessing and managing the potential social Case study: Demonstrating value and economic risks is critical for all new and measuring impact projects.
To mitigate any negative impacts and enhance positive benefits, we develop Assessing social impacts a social management plan for each project.
In 2018, we revised guidance on managing and opportunities in Mexico social risks and opportunities.
This major rationalisation involved looking at the procedures we have in place on social management and how they fit into our Project Development Process.
Some of these processes and procedures have now been incorporated into one document, Guidance on Managing Social Risks and Opportunities, to make the information easier to access.
In this document, the UN SDGs now provide an additional framework for managing social risks and opportunities.
Our guidance is also informed by Mapping the oil and gas industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: An atlas, published by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues.
In accordance with our Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS, we are required to evaluate the potential social risks and impacts of any major activity we undertake.
The scope and nature of that Social Impact Assessment SIA depends on the local context and regulations.
Often, SIAs are performed as part of a Gathering and analysing data to combined Environmental and Social Impact determine a social baseline of the Assessment ESIA.
However, in Mexico, area affected by the proposed local regulations required a separate SIA to activities: be carried out and submitted for approval Evaluating the likely impacts: by the authorities.
Designing impact mitigation measures: and In February 2018, Cairn Energy Mexico Developing a social finalised an SIA for our proposed offshore management plan.
exploration projects in Block 9 in the Gulf of Mexico.
Developed in line with best practice, The methodology included including the performance standards of the discussions with community IFC and the European Development and members, fishermen and fishing Reconstruction Bank, the assessment cooperatives, local government involved: representatives, port captains and business owners.
58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Society continued Local community stakeholders local fishermen, to minimise disruption Even when our assets are located offshore, and maximise benefits.
we recognise that our activities can affect the people closest to our operations.
For We also conducted baseline surveys for example, in maintaining a safety zone around environmental sensitivity, ahead of drilling drilling vessels, our operations can interfere campaigns in the UK, Norway and Mexico with local fishing activity.
In such instances, see page 61. we share our plans and invite feedback from Case study: Communities Community-led development in Senegal Fishermen along the coast of Senegal face many challenges, including The pilot project with falling incomes, competition from foreign boats, inadequate equipment, Cairn gives the fishing a lack of training and food insecurity.
To empower these communities to communities around Yenne drive their own economic and social development, we have been the means to understand working with the global non-governmental organisation The Hunger and address the challenges Project THP since 2015. they face.
Women and young people in particular THPs epicentre strategy helps So far, the project has had several positive are taking the lead, building communities develop social outcomes: capacity through training, infrastructure, as well as physical the CLP now has more than 2,100 community spaces, to avoid relying on members: awareness-raising and external investment.
more than 1,000 people have received investment.
life skills training: Through a 30-month pilot programme 35 female fish processors have been Mr Adama Ndiaye, starting in July 2017, we are supporting trained in Entrepreneurship and Financial animator local leader, around 22,450 people in seven fishing Management: Comit Local fide Pche CLP communities around Yenne, south of 1,080 women have benefited from Dakar.
The programme identifies leaders, access to credit: helps them understand their 42 facilitators are enrolled in THPs Vision, communities needs and trains them to Commitment and Action workshop: mobilise local stakeholders.
Capacity 22 leaders are enrolled in technical and building through training and cascading resource mobilisation training: information, particularly among women 91 women are being trained in and girls, is coordinated through a local the Womens Empowerment fisheries committee Comit Local fide Programme: and Pche CLP, comprising fishermen, new equipment, from octopus pots wholesalers and women fish processors.
to lifejackets, has been purchased and distributed.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Strategic Report Human rights Ethics.
We published our first Modern We respect every person who works for or Slavery statement in early 2018 under the 100% with us.
Upholding their rights to safe working provision of the UK Modern Slavery Act: conditions, fair treatment and reasonable our 2019 statement is available online Operations that have been subject to human reward for their efforts is essential.
com services modernrights reviews or impact assessments develop and maintain effective relationships slavery-statement.
We also completed with employees, contractors, communities human rights and modern slavery training for and other stakeholders, we support our employees, and our procedure for 17% international standards such as the UN selecting service providers now incorporates Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Employees trained on human rights policies and procedures Our Human Rights Guidelines define how we Read more about how we monitor the identify, assess and manage potential human security of people and assets, in locations as rights issues at key project stages.
Our well as communities where we have existing Read our Modern Slavery Statement at position is also integrated with our Corporate operations on page 53. www.
com working-responsibly Social Responsibility Policy and our Code of Supporting The Hunger Project, Senegal Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Environment Environmental protection is one of our key priorities when it comes to how we operate.
We take a precautionary approach with rigorous risk assessment see Governance on page 49 and robust working methods at all stages of our projects.
In this way, we seek to minimise any adverse impact on the environments in which we work, but not to the detriment of safety.
Total and normalised GHG emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Environment Issues covered 60,000 60 in this section: 48 53 Climate Change, 45,000 45 Energy and Emissions 41 33 Greenhouse gas emissions 30,000 30 Biodiversity 14 Biodiversity and sensitive areas 15,000 15 Read more: Materiality Matrix on P48 48 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 0 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions from our operations, arise 1 3 Scope 1, tonnes CO e Scope 3, tonnes CO e 2 2 mainly from the combustion of fuels.
We 2 Scope 2 location-based, tonnes CO e Scope 1, 2 location-based and 2 monitor and manage these emissions, and 3 normalised, tonnes CO e per 2 disclose them in accordance with industry 1,000 hours worked requirements, methodologies and standards on an operational control basis only including Notes: emissions from the assets we operate.
Around We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
We use the published 100-year Global Warming Potentials GWPs for CO, CH and N O from the Intergovernmental 95% of the GHG emissions associated with 2 4 2 Panel on Climate Change IPCC with the Fourth Assessment Report AR4 values applied when using Defra 2018 our sector occur in the supply chain, so our emission factors they are already integrated, and the Fifth Assessment Report AR5 values applied when using other influence on them is at the point of contractor emission factors.
selection and the application of modern, efficient equipment.
Our Scope 1 direct GHG emissions arise from fuel combustion primarily during offshore rig, marine vessel and aircraft operations, flaring during well testing not in 2018 and incineration of waste a very small amount, and not in 2018.
For calculating these emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 fuel combustion, In absolute terms, our annual GHG emissions EEMS 2008 flaring and the GHG Protocol 2017 waste incineration.
vary with the length and nature of the projects 2.
We report Scope 2 purchased electricity GHG emissions in line with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, i. e. in two in the year, which are in turn influenced by ways: according to a location-based method and a market-based method.
Transmission and distribution losses are safety considerations, technical requirements, excluded.
For the location-based method we use emission factors from the IEA International Energy Agency the distance between operations and support updated to IEA 2018 in 2018.
These are grid average emission factors for each country.
For district heating and cooling we use location-based emission factors from Defra updated to Defra 2018 in 2018.
For the market-based bases and local environmental and method we use emission factors, where available, in the following order of preference: meteorological conditions.
a. Supplier-specific emission factors obtained from Cairns offices electricity suppliers.
Residual mix emission factors obtained from the Association of Issuing Bodies AIB document European Most of our emissions arise from exploration Residual Mixes 2017. and appraisal activities.
In 2018, these arose c. Location-based emission factors.
These are the same IEA and Defra emission factors that we use for calculating primarily from the UK Ekland well.
We had no location-based emissions.
W e have provided location-based Scope 2 figures in this report.
Our market-based Scope 2 figures, and further venting or flaring this year.
In 2019, we have details about our GHG emissions data and calculations, are available in our Data Appendix and on our website.
active drilling programmes planned in Mexico, 3.
We report Scope 3 GHG emissions from two sources: 1 business travel business travel well-to-tank emissions are Norway and the UK.
excluded : and 2 electricity transmission and distribution losses.
For calculating Scope 3 business travel GHG emissions we use the Defra methodology, including its Our total GHG emissions decreased in 2018 recommendation to include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions.
We updated to to 7,500 tonnes CO e, as we drilled only one Defra 2018 emission factors in 2018 see www.
2 For calculating Scope 3 electricity transmission and distribution losses GHG emissions we use Defra 2018 well in the UK.
per 1,000 hours worked were also reduced.
Limited assurance of our 2018 GHG data Scopes 1, 2 and 3 and normalised has been provided independently by ITPEnergsied which, within the scope of the limited assurance engagement, has found that the GHG emissions We also monitor and report on other air reported are materially correct and a fair representation of available information.
A full assurance statement emissions, discharges and waste in connection detailing the verification undertaken and its limitations is available on our website.
with our activities and these are detailed in our CR Report see www.
Tonnes CO e 2 59,395 402 3,127 32,435 351 2,606 29,487 355 2,140 48,782 343 2,471 4,624 251 2,625 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Strategic Report Biodiversity While biodiversity is assessed as being a medium materiality issue, we are Case study: Biodiversity including it as we recognise it as an and sensitive areas emerging risk.
Protecting Biodiversity Environmental Global awareness of the threat to biodiversity has increased dramatically in baseline surveys recent years.
We have always recognised the risks of impact on the habitats, ecosystems and species that enrich our planet, and committed ourselves to protecting them in the locations where we work.
Where our operations might affect critical habitats, protected areas or the welfare of local communities relying on ecosystem services, we undertake extensive assessments of their potential biodiversity impacts.
We then work with technical specialists, government departments, NGOs and other local stakeholders on any mitigation activities required.
Our approach is set out in our CRMS and all our commitments related to preserving biodiversity are covered by our Business We conducted several environmental baseline surveys in 2018 in Principles and our Environment Policy.
preparation for drilling campaigns in the UK, Norway and Mexico.
Environmental Baselines EBLs help us to define existing biodiversity, environmental and other conditions near our activities, using a suite of analytical techniques ranging from seabed sampling and physicochemical analysis to photography.
As well as providing the data for the The EBL survey for Block 9, one of assessment of potential impacts on our two operated licences offshore habitats and helping us develop Mexico, was approved by the mitigation measures, they also help Mexican regulator Agencia fide determine the nature and extent of Seguridad, Energa y Ambiente existing damage arising from the ASEA in August 2018.
We also previous activities of others.
completed our baseline survey for Our site survey for the operated Block B15, which also determined Ekland well in the UK, completed in the extent of previous activities in the January 2018, was a requirement area.
We have informed ASEA that of our submission to the Offshore we intend to exclude some locations Petroleum Regulator for from exploration, including shallow Environment and water and areas of coral, on the Decommissioning OPRED, and grounds of environmental sensitivity.
was incorporated into our well application in July.
We also In addition, we worked with our partner undertook site and baseline Woodside to submit the Environmental surveys to identify sensitive and Social Impact Assessments ESIA habitats in support of for the SNE development in Senegal environmental impact work for the in August 2018.
Following regulatory operated Chimera well in the UK, scrutiny by the Senegal National and the Lynghaug and Godalen Technical Committee, all responses wells in Norway planned for 2019. and modifications to the ESIA were submitted in November 2018, with subsequent public consultation, Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 32 and approved in January 2019.
Read our Business Principals and Environment Policy at www.
