Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 David Stewart 3 Stephen King Chairman Finance Director Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2015 and He joined Caledonia in 2009 as Finance Director.
He was Group Chairman in 2017, he is also Chairman of the Nomination Finance Director of fide La Rue from 2003 to 2009, prior to Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
which he was Group Finance Director of Midland Electricity and Having begun his career at Swire Pacific in 1981, he joined before that held senior financial positions at Seeboard, Lucas James Capel in 1986 and then Fidelity Investments in 1995, Industries and Lonhro.
He is currently Senior Independent where he was Head of Emerging Markets and subsequently Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee European President.
From 2005 until 2013, he was Chief of TT Electronics and a non-executive director and Chairman of Executive Officer of Odey Asset Management before assuming the Audit Committee of Bristow Group.
He is a Fellow of the a non-executive director role until 2014.
He is a director and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
co-founder of IMM Associates and Chairman of Hermes Mr King brings to the board extensive financial oversight and Fund Managers.
Mr Stewart brings to the board extensive experience of international business and asset management, both in the UK 4 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and in Asia and emerging markets.
Executive Director He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, initially working at its 2 Will Wyatt Amber speciality chemicals subsidiary before becoming an Chief Executive investment executive at Caledonias head office in 1999.
He He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 from Close Brothers was appointed a director in 2005 and is currently a member of Corporate Finance, working at Sterling Industries before the advisory committee of a number of Caledonias fund transferring to Caledonias head office in 1999 as an investment investments.
He is also Chairman of The Henderson Smaller executive.
He was appointed a director in 2005 and Chief Companies Investment Trust, a non-executive director of Polar Executive in 2010 and is also a member of the Nomination Capital Holdings and Chairman of Heritage of London Trust and Committee.
He has held board positions at numerous the Bronze Oak Tree Project.
Caledonia investee companies and is currently a non-executive Mr Cayzer-Colvin brings to the board broad senior director of Cobehold.
He is also a non-executive director of Real management experience and investment expertise.
Estate Investors, a trustee of the Rank Foundation and Chairman of Newmarket Racecourses.
5 Stuart Bridges Mr Wyatt brings to the board corporate finance and Independent Non-Executive Director investment expertise, broad senior management experience Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2013, he is and team leadership skills.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Governance and Nomination Committees.
A chartered accountant, he was until 2017 Group Chief Financial Officer of Nex Group, which he joined in 2015 after some 16 years as Chief Financial Officer of Hiscox.
Prior to Hiscox, he held positions in various financial services companies in the UK and US, including Henderson Global Investors.
He is a member of the Finance Committee of The Royal Institution.
Mr Bridges brings to the board a wide knowledge of both the insurance and investment markets, as well as financial oversight expertise.
32 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 6 7 8 9 6 The Hon Charles Cayzer 8 Guy Davison Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Having gained experience of merchant banking, commercial Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia with effect banking and corporate and project finance with Baring from 1 January 2018, he is a member of the Audit and Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Ltd, he was appointed an Nomination Committees.
After qualifying as a chartered executive director of Caledonia in 1985, becoming nonaccountant, he spent four years at Larpent Newton before executive in 2012, and is also a member of the Nomination joining Cinven, the leading international private equity firm, in Committee.
During his period as an executive director of 1988 as a founding partner, remaining with the firm until his Caledonia, he was responsible for a large number of investment retirement in January 2017.
During that time, he was central to acquisitions and disposals and served on the boards of many the development of the business from the time of its buy-out investee companies, mostly in the property and hotels sectors.
from British Coal in 1995 to one which now employs around He is currently Chairman of The Cayzer Trust Company and the 120 staff in offices in Guernsey, London, Frankfurt, Paris, Bedford Estate.
Madrid, Milan, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and New York.
During his 29 years at Cinven, he represented the firm as chairman or The Hon C W Cayzer brings to the board broad commercial non-executive director at some 25 of its portfolio companies.
experience and also extensive knowledge of the commercial property sector.
Mr Davison brings to the board over 30 years knowledge and experience of private equity investing, both in the UK and Europe, which is of particular benefit to Caledonias 7 Charles Gregson unquoted portfolio.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2009, he is 9 Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman of the Governance and Remuneration Committees Independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nomination Committee.
He spent his business career at United Business Media and its predecessor Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2015, she is companies in a number of divisional and head office roles and a member of the Audit, Governance, Nomination and has served on a number of boards in the financial service Remuneration Committees.
She spent the first 20 years of her sector, including St Jamess Place, Provident Financial, MAI and career at KPMG in London and Tokyo, rising to the position of International Personal Finance, and in the media sector, Partner, Financial Services.
In 2001, she moved to Unilever, including United Business Media and PR Newswire Europe.
He where she was Senior Vice President, Finance and Information is currently non-executive Chairman of Nex Group and for Asia, based in Singapore, before returning to the UK as Non-Standard Finance.
Finance Director for Unilevers global non-food business.
In 2009, she joined CDC Group as Chief Operating Officer, a Mr Gregson brings to the board extensive senior board level position she held until 2012.
Since then, she has focused on experience, as well as experience of managing relationships non-executive appointments and is currently non-executive with the media, regulators and the institutional investor Chairman of MS Amlin and a non-executive director of community.
Mrs Jemmett-Page brings to the board extensive financial oversight and international business experience, in particular in the Far East.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 33
