Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Remuneration policy Introduction the Remuneration Committee wishes to retain a level of discretion are identified in the relevant sections of the policy.
The Set out below are the material elements of directors Remuneration Committee may also make minor amendments to remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the annual the remuneration policy to aid its operation or implementation general meeting held on 20 July 2017.
This policy came into effect without seeking shareholder approval, for example to take account from that date and will apply until a revised remuneration policy is of a change in legislation or for regulatory, exchange control, tax or approved by shareholders.
The company does not expect to seek administrative purposes, provided that any such change is not to shareholder approval for a revised policy until the annual general the material advantage of the directors.
Legacy arrangements Implementation of the policy The policy is essentially forward looking in nature.
In view of the There have been no changes to the current policy since its long term nature of the companys remuneration structures implementation and the extracts included below are for including obligations under service contracts, pension information only and to provide context for the 2018 Annual arrangements and incentive schemes a substantial number of report on directors remuneration which follows.
References to pre-existing obligations will remain outstanding at the time that the share awards held by executive directors at the date of approval of new policy is approved, including obligations that are the policy which have since been exercised have been removed grandfathered by virtue of being in force at 27 June 2012 or which and it has also been noted where share awards have met their were incurred under the previous remuneration policy approved performance targets since the implementation date.
by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
It is the The full directors remuneration policy is contained on pages 47 to companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing obligations that 55 of the companys annual report 2017, which is available in the have been entered into prior to the effective date of this policy.
Literature section of Caledonias website at www.
Objectives Under the current statutory regime, a company may only make a remuneration payment to a director or a payment for loss of office The key objectives of the Remuneration Committee in setting the companys remuneration policy are as follows: if it is either consistent with the most recently approved remuneration policy or, if not, is separately approved by remuneration of executive directors should be linked to the shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee considers that an companys long term performance and its business strategy effective remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to performance related remuneration should seek to align the take account of future changes in the companys business interests of executive directors with those of the shareholders environment, and in remuneration practice generally.
In framing its a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has therefore sought to should be linked to the performance of the company and only combine a level of breadth and flexibility to enable it to react to receivable if demanding performance targets are achieved changed circumstances without the need for a specific shareholder approval, whilst at the same time incorporating sufficient detail remuneration packages for executive directors should be competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in and transparency to enable shareholders to understand how it will operate in different scenarios and feel comfortable that payments order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the quality needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
made under it are justified.
Components of remuneration where Remuneration structure Executive directors The table below sets out Caledonias policy in relation to each component of executive director remuneration, with further explanations in the notes that follow.
Salary fixed pay Purpose and link To support the recruitment and retention of executive directors of the calibre required to manage and to strategic objectives grow the company successfully.
The basic salaries of the executive directors on implementation of the policy were: W P Wyatt: 524,500: S A King: 376,000: J M B Cayzer-Colvin: 317,750.
Opportunity and recovery or Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to any increase in the cost of living, but may take into withholding provisions account other factors such as external market positioning, change in the scope of the individuals responsibilities or level of experience, development in the role and levels of pay elsewhere in the company.
Year on year increases in basic salaries will not exceed inflation by more than 5%, other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
measurement framework Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 45 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Benefits fixed pay Purpose and link To provide a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
to strategic objectives Operation Executive directors are provided with family private medical insurance cover, death-in-service insurance, and permanent health insurance and, in the case of Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
They are also entitled to receive minor benefits that are available to other Caledonia staff.
The executive directors are also covered by the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
Where there is a valid business reason for doing so, the company may pay for the cost of spouses or partners accompanying directors on business trips and reimburse directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses including payment of any tax thereon.
Executive directors are also eligible to receive other minor benefits and expenses payments again including payment of any tax thereon.
Opportunity and recovery or A taxable benefits package that is competitive with the marketplace.
withholding provisions The value of taxable benefits provided, other than ad hoc items incurred in connection with Caledonias business that may be deemed taxable benefits such as travel and other expenses, will not in aggregate exceed 10% of basic salary.
measurement framework Short term incentives variable pay Purpose and link To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
to strategic objectives Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily deferred into shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum potential bonus is 100% of basic salary.
Any bonus over 50% of basic salary is compulsorily withholding provisions deferred into shares for a period of three years.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory deferral or not to require any deferral.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive director must normally be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any cash bonus or deferred bonus shares granted after the effective date of this policy which have not yet been paid or vested, in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
The Remuneration Committee also has the right to recover all or part of cash bonus paid or deferred bonus shares and dividend equivalent amounts awarded after the effective date of this policy within the two years following date of payment or vesting as applicable, in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
Performance By reference to a combination of company performance against external benchmarks and individual measurement framework performance against personal objectives.
Executive directors with responsibility for pools of capital will have a proportion of bonus determined by reference to pool performance and objectives.
46 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Long term incentives variable pay Purpose and link To motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of to strategic objectives management with those of shareholders.
To encourage long term retention of key executives.
Operation Caledonia operates a performance share scheme under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the companys shares.
The performance share scheme replaced an executive share option scheme under which market value options were awarded to senior executives.
The last awards under the executive share option scheme were made in 2010, and none remain outstanding.
Prior to the effective date of this policy, under the companys deferred bonus plan, matching share awards were granted in respect of compulsory and voluntary deferral of pre-tax bonus, some of which remain outstanding.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the performance share withholding provisions scheme rules is 200% of basic salary, although the companys policy is to grant annual awards of no more than 150% of basic salary.
On exercise of nil-cost options, participants will also receive an amount equivalent to the dividends and, if relevant, any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the shares during the relevant performance measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of awards granted after 1 April 2014, to cancel or reduce long term incentive awards which have not yet vested, in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the company or any member of the group.
The Remuneration Committee also has the right, in respect of awards granted after the effective date of this policy, to recover all or part of the value of long term incentive awards and dividend equivalent amounts received within two years of the date that such awards vested and became exercisable, in the event of a material miscalculation of a participants entitlement, a material misstatement or restatement of the companys financial results for the years to which the performance periods relate, or material personal misconduct that would justify summary dismissal, or result in significant reputational damage to the company, or have a material adverse effect on the companys financial position, or reflect a significant failure of the companys risk management or control.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a long term incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the Remuneration Committee considers that the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reflect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a greater or lesser degree at the testing date and or if the application of time pro rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 47 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Performance For executive directors who are not directly responsible for a pool of capital, nil-cost options awarded measurement framework under the 2011 performance share scheme are subject to the performance of the companys annualised diluted net asset value per share total return NAVTR measured over three or five years.
For executive directors directly responsible for a pool of capital, the nil-cost options are subject to a combination of the performance of the companys annualised NAVTR as above and the annualised total returns achieved by the relevant pool for which he or she is responsible, again measured over three or five years.
Outstanding nil-cost options awarded in the 2014 financial year were subject to the performance of NAVTR relative to the FTSE All-Share Total Return index.
Matching share awards previously granted under the deferred bonus plan and which are still in their performance measurement period are subject to the performance of the companys annualised NAVTR, measured over three years.
The rules of each scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets and to determine the appropriate proportion of any award subject to each performance measure.
The performance targets for all outstanding options granted under the companys executive share option scheme have been met.
Pension related benefits fixed pay Purpose and link To provide a means of retirement saving as part of a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit to strategic objectives and retain high calibre executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are offered defined contribution funding, based on a percentage of salary, to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both at their choice.
Opportunity and recovery or The percentage of basic salary for the Chief Executive is 22.5% and for other executive directors 17.5%.
If withholding provisions a director chooses to take a cash supplement in lieu of some or all of his or her pension entitlement, the payment is reduced by such amount as is necessary to make the cash supplement cost neutral for the company after taking into account National Insurance contributions.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to increase the percentage of salary relating to pension benefits from time to time in line with market conditions, up to a maximum of 30% of basic salary.
measurement framework Notes to the policy table Long term incentive plans 1.
Performance measures and targets Performance share scheme Annual bonus For nil-cost options granted in the 2014 financial year, one-half of the For the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, a maximum of 50% of shares comprised in an award were subject to a performance condition bonus is determined by reference to company performance and 50% by which compared the performance of Caledonias NAVTR against the FTSE reference to individual performance objectives.
For executive directors Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index responsible for a specific pool of capital, 25% of bonus is determined by over three years.
For the other half, NAVTR was measured against the reference to the companys performance, 25% to pool performance, 35% FTSE All-Share Total Return index FTSE index, over five years.
Awards to pool objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
In all vested on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of cases, the company performance element is determined by reference to the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to maximum vesting the relative performance of the companys NAVTR against RPI, with RPI on 3.5% outperformance.
There was no re-testing of either performance taken as the higher of actual RPI over the bonus year or 3%, being broadly target and, to the extent a performance target was not met, the relevant in line with its historic long term average.
Bonus payments for this award lapsed.
For the purpose of calculating the performance measures, element commence with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, increasing averages of the companys NAVTR and the two benchmark indices over incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of the three months prior to the start and end of the performance period 7% or more is achieved.
Pool performance is judged by the Remuneration were used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the performance targets Committee by reference to the return achieved by the pool against a set were met, awards may be exercised between the date of vesting and the target return and by objectives such as deal flow and delivery of portfolio tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Those nil-cost options measured strategy.
Individual performance is assessed by reference to personal against the Gilts index were tested as at 31 March 2016 and achieved objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures maximum vesting.
Those nil-cost options measured against the FTSE index such as risk management, marketing of the company, team leadership, were tested as at 31 March 2018 and achieved 100% vesting.
management skills and promotion of Caledonias corporate culture and For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King in the 2015 financial image both internally and externally.
year and subsequently, awards will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt commencing at 10% on the achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, alternative annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised with the companys strategic objectives.
NAVTR of 10%, measured over three and five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme Compulsory deferral of bonus awards are measured against the annualised total returns achieved by the Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the Funds pool, measured over three and five years.
Awards will similarly vest director remains an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on achievement of period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising incrementally to 100% award is made.
48 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information vesting on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The For awards under the performance share scheme and relevant matching remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share scheme awards shares under the deferred bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee has will be measured against Caledonias annualised NAVTR as above.
chosen Caledonias annualised NAVTR as the performance measurement, as it believes that this is the most effective method of aligning directors For nil-cost options granted in the 2015 financial year, one-half of the rewards with the long term strategic objective of the company of shares comprised in the awards are measured over three years and the delivering annualised returns over rolling ten year periods of between other half over five years.
For the 2016 and subsequent financial years, RPI 3% and RPI 6%.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, the Remuneration Committee one-third are measured over three years and two-thirds over five years.
believes that a significant proportion of his variable pay should be In all cases, shares that vest will become immediately exercisable and will weighted towards the annualised total return performance of the Funds lapse if not exercised within ten years of grant.
The nil-cost options pool of capital for which he is responsible and has therefore determined granted in the 2015 financial year which were measured over three years that 60% of his performance share scheme awards should be tested by were tested by reference to Caledonias annualised NAVTR and, in the reference to this.
case of Mr Cayzer-Colvin, also the Funds pools annualised total return, to 31 March 2017, achieved maximum vesting.
The nil-cost option grants in The targets for each component of the long term incentive plans have the 2016 financial year which were measured over three years were been set by the Remuneration Committee with the aim of delivering tested by reference to Caledonias annualised NAVTR and, in the case of increasing reward for greater outperformance.
The Remuneration Mr Cayzer-Colvin, also the Funds pools annualised total return, to Committee keeps these measures and the levels at which incremental 31 March 2018, achieved vesting of 71% and 82% respectively.
and maximum entitlements are earned under review in order to ensure that they remain sufficiently challenging and aligned with the companys Deferred bonus plan matching awards strategy and key performance indicators.
Matching awards granted prior to the 2016 financial year were all 2.
New components introduced into the new remuneration policy performance tested in prior years.
Matching awards granted in the 2016 financial year were subject to performance measurement by reference to There are no new components included in the above policy table which were not a part of the remuneration policy previously operated for Caledonias annualised NAVTR over the three years to 31 March 2018, with vesting commencing at 20% on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of executive directors by the company.
4%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised 3.
Changes to components included in the previous remuneration policy NAVTR of 10%.
A 71% vesting level was achieved and vested shares can be The only changes to the previous remuneration policy were the removal called immediately following the end of the performance measurement of the availability of voluntary bonus deferral and the award of deferred period and will lapse if not called within twelve months thereafter.
bonus matching shares, an increase in the standard annual award under Rationale for choice of performance measures for the short and long the performance share scheme from 125% of basic salary to 150% to term incentive plans compensate for the removal of deferred bonus matching and the The Remuneration Committee has chosen NAVTR as the basis of introduction of clawback provisions for all elements of variable pay.
performance measurement for the company for both its short term and 4.
How the remuneration policy for executive directors relates to long term incentive arrangements as it regards this as the best indicator remuneration of Caledonia group employees generally of the success or failure of management decisions in terms of creating Caledonias executive directors remuneration packages tend to be higher value for the company.
than those of other group employees, but also include a higher proportion of variable pay.
For the company performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the board has taken the view that benchmarking against a stock market index or indices over a short period is not relevant given Caledonias long term investment horizon and the nature of its portfolio.
The Remuneration Committee has therefore instead chosen RPI, subject to a minimum of 3%, as the comparator, as on this basis executives will only be rewarded to the extent that they are able to deliver positive real returns for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will review the rate of increase in RPI at the start of each financial year and may adjust the level of outperformance required for the incremental and maximum bonus payments in order to ensure that they remain a fair measure of performance.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 49 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out each component of the Chairmans and the non-executive directors remuneration and the approach taken by the company in relation thereto.
Component Approach Chairmans and The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors non-executive fees are set by the board.
These are reviewed periodically taking into account the responsibilities and directors fees time commitments required and non-executive director fee levels generally.
The Chairman receives an annual fee, which includes his basic non-executive directors fee, but does not receive any other remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive basic fees, which are subject to an aggregate annual limit for nonexecutive directors ordinary remuneration contained in the articles of association, currently 350,000.
In addition, special fees are paid for the chairmanship and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and also for the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Governance Committee.
The fees of the Chairman and the non-executive directors on implementation of the policy were as follows: Additional fees payable Exceptionally, non-executive directors may receive fees from subsidiary companies for services provided for services to other to them.
Fees for services provided to subsidiary companies are set and reviewed by the boards of those group companies companies, but will not exceed 100,000 per annum in aggregate for any non-executive director.
Other benefits The Chairman and the non-executive directors are all covered under the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
The Chairman is also provided with an office and secretarial support.
The company may, where appropriate, pay for the cost of spouses or partners accompanying non-executive directors on trips where there is a business reason for doing so and reimburse non-executive directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses in each case including payment of any tax thereon.
Remuneration policy for new appointments candidate to compensate for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, taking into account Executive directors factors such as any performance conditions attached to these In the case of the appointment of a new executive director, the awards, the form in which they were granted, for example cash or Remuneration Committee would typically seek to align the shares, and the time over which they would have vested.
The aim remuneration package with the above remuneration policy.
The would be to ensure that replacement awards would be made on Remuneration Committee however retains the discretion to make no greater than a comparable basis.
special remuneration commitments on the appointment of a new executive director, including the use of awards made under In order to attract and retain suitable executives, the Remuneration Rule 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules, if such were necessary to ensure the Committee retains discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to recruitment of a candidate.
In doing so, the Remuneration offer service contracts with up to an initial 24 month notice period, Committee would take into consideration all relevant factors, which then reduces to 12 months at the end of this initial period.
including, but not limited to, overall quantum, type of If it considers it appropriate, the Remuneration Committee may remuneration offered and comparability with the packages of also offer a lower salary initially, but with a series of increases to other Caledonia senior executives and the total variable pay would achieve the desired salary positioning over a period of time, as the not exceed the maxima stated in the policy table for executive individual develops into the role.
If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion, the The Remuneration Committee may in addition make bonus Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any precommitments or share awards on the appointment of an external existing contractual arrangements or benefits package agreed 50 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information with the relevant individual.
In the event that a new director Executive directors service contracts may be terminated without resides overseas, the Remuneration Committee may agree a notice and without any further payment other than in respect of reasonable relocation package and tax equalisation arrangements.
amounts due at the date of termination on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
In recruiting any new executive director, the Remuneration Committee would apply the overall policy objective that executive Chairman and non-executive directors directors remuneration should be competitive, but not excessive.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service In the event that the Remuneration Committee agreed that it was contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment, which necessary for special commitments or sign-on arrangements to be provide for termination without notice or compensation.
offered to secure the recruitment of a new executive director, an Inspection explanation of why these were required and details thereof would Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and be announced at the time of appointment.
non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for Chairman and non-executive directors inspection at the registered office of the company.
Terms for the appointment of any new Chairman or non-executive director would also be determined by the Remuneration Policy on external non-executive directorships held Committee or the board within the above remuneration policy.
by executive directors It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold Executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys business to Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of broaden their commercial experience, provided that the time appointment required is not material.
Normally the company will retain any fees Executive directors arising from such non-executive directorships, but may permit the Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group executive director to retain fees on a case by case basis.
Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of Details of any fees from external non-executive directorships which are summarised below: retained by executive directors are disclosed in the Annual report on directors remuneration.
Notice period Date of for company contract and director Unexpired term Policy on payments for loss of office W P Wyatt 2 Jun 2005 12 months 12 months Executive directors S A King 19 Nov 2009 12 months 12 months It is the policy of the company that, other than in exceptional J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19 Apr 2005 12 months 12 months circumstances on recruitment as stated above, no executive director should be offered a service contract that requires more If notice is served by either party, the director can continue to than one years notice of termination or which contains provision receive basic salary, benefits and pension payments for the for predetermined compensation in excess of one years total duration of the notice period, during which time the company may emoluments.
In the event of a termination, the Remuneration require the individual to continue to fulfil his current duties or may Committee will consider a directors past performance and the assign a period of gardening leave.
Alternatively, the company may, circumstances of the departure in exercising any discretions in its discretion, terminate the contract without notice and make a relating to the arrangements for loss of office, including lump sum payment in lieu of notice.
This lump sum would include contractual obligations, prevailing best practice, the reason for the an amount equivalent to the basic salary and benefits based on a departure and any transition or handover required.
fixed percentage of salary specified in the service contract for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment relates.
The termination provisions in executive directors current service Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service contracts provide that contracts are described above in the section on executive directors an amount equivalent to 80% of the average of the annual bonuses service contracts.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention paid for the previous three financial years would also be included in that all future executive directors service contracts should include the payment in lieu of notice.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins provisions enabling the company to reduce compensation service contracts also include provisions whereby a liquidated sum payments in the event that the director takes up alternative is payable in the event of termination within one year following a employment within the notice period.
However, if a new director is change of control.
The payment would be calculated on the same appointed internally, the Remuneration Committee would expect basis as a payment in lieu of notice, except that an amount to honour any existing contractual arrangements agreed with the equivalent to 100% of the average of the annual bonuses paid for relevant individual before he or she becomes a director.
the previous three financial years would be included.
In applying the companys right to make a lump sum payment in Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an lieu of notice, the Remuneration Committee would normally alternative to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the expect to pro rate the lump sum for the unexpired period of notice company may elect to pay the equivalent amount in equal to which the payment relates.
In appropriate circumstances, the monthly instalments, such instalments to be reduced by 50% of Remuneration Committee may make a payment in respect of the one-twelfth of the basic salary in excess of 20,000 per annum full twelve months notice period, even if the director works under that Mr King receives from any alternative employment that he notice for part of it.
takes up during the notice period.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 51 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy The companys annual bonus scheme provides that an employee Following termination, the Remuneration Committee may agree must be in the groups employment and not under notice of to pay a director consultancy fees and continue insurance related termination either given or received in order to be entitled to benefits until the end of the insurance policy period.
The receive a bonus for the relevant financial year.
The Remuneration companys directors and officers liability insurance policy also Committee would expect to apply this principle to executive provides for a six year period of run-off cover for former directors.
director terminations, but retains discretion to make bonus In limited circumstances, the company may permit a director to payments on termination if it believes it appropriate to do so.
remain in employment after ceasing to be a director for a limited period to allow time for an effective handover or for a successor to Executive directors would also be entitled under their service be appointed.
contracts to be paid on termination for any accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlement.
The Remuneration Committee may, where it Chairman and non-executive directors considers it appropriate in the circumstances, make payments for The Chairman and the non-executive directors have no loss of statutory rights or waiver thereof and a contribution entitlement to any compensation on termination of their towards legal and outplacement fees.
The Remuneration appointments, although they would have the benefit of run-off Committee may also make a payment to ensure that any cover under the directors and officers liability insurance policy as restrictive covenants remain enforceable.
Where the director holds unvested awards under the companys long term incentive schemes, the Remuneration Committee would exercise its discretions as to vesting in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
In good leaver circumstances, for example where cessation of employment is by reason of death, retirement, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, or such other reason as the Remuneration Committee may decide, the Remuneration Committee will normally determine the level of vesting based on the attainment of the performance targets, either at the time of cessation or at the normal test date if permitted by the scheme rules, but in the case of the former may decrease or increase the level of vesting if the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets would have been met to a lesser or greater extent at the end of the performance period.
The number of shares that vest will normally be reduced to reflect the proportion of the performance period that the director was in employment, although the Remuneration Committee has discretion not to scale down the number of shares if it believes it appropriate in the circumstances.
52 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration The following report sets out details and explanations of remuneration paid to directors over the financial year to 31 March 2018 and describes how Caledonias remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2019 financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director audited Executive directors The table below provides an analysis of total remuneration of each executive director for the financial year ended 31 March 2018 and a comparison with the previous financial year.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance cover and a small promotion of Caledonias corporate culture and image both internally and externally.
In the case of Mr Cayzer-Colvin, his 2018 personal objectives Christmas supplement paid to all Caledonia staff.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins taxable benefits also included a cash allowance of also included the completion of the refurbishment of Cayzer House and its smooth re-occupation.
In addition to taxable benefits, other non-taxable benefits were provided The companys NAVTR was 1.4% over the year against an increase in RPI to executive directors, including death-in-service insurance 4x basic of 3.3% and therefore there was no payment for company performance.
salary, permanent health insurance, directors and officers liability The Funds pools return over the year was 8.0%, leading to a bonus award insurance and certain other benefits of minor value provided to all of of 10.0% for Mr Cayzer-Colvin for this element.
In view of the continued Caledonias staff.
success of the Funds pool in gaining access to US and Asian funds that were otherwise over-subscribed and further development of the pools 2.
Short term incentives strategy, the Remuneration Committee awarded Mr Cayzer-Colvin a In accordance with the rules of the companys deferred bonus plan, the bonus of 30% for attainment of his pool objectives.
Following a review of following amounts included in the total of short term incentives were the detailed individual objectives set for each of the executive directors, compulsorily deferred, to be satisfied by share awards made shortly after the Remuneration Committee decided to award bonuses for personal the approval of the new remuneration policy: performance of 40%, 30% and 10% for Mr Wyatt, Mr King and Mr Cayzer-Colvin respectively.
2018 2017 The total bonuses awarded to Mr Wyatt, Mr King and Mr Cayzer-Colvin CompCompfor the year were therefore determined as follows: ulsorily ulsorily deferred Cash Total deferred Cash Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 J M B CayzerW P Wyatt S A King Colvin W P Wyatt 210 210 255 256 511 Award Max Award Max Award Max S A King 113 113 183 184 367 % % % % % % J M B Cayzer-Colvin 159 159 155 155 310 Performance For Mr Wyatt and Mr King, a maximum of 50% of bonus was determined Company nil 50 nil 50 nil 25 by reference to company performance and 50% by reference to individual Pool n a n a n a n a 10 25 performance objectives.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who has specific Objectives responsibility for the Funds pool of capital, 25% of his bonus was Pool n a n a n a n a 30 35 determined by reference to the companys performance, 25% to his Individual 40 50 30 50 10 15 pools performance, 35% to his pools objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
For the 2018 financial year, the company Total 40 100 30 100 50 100 performance element was determined by reference to the relative 3.
Long term incentives performance of the companys NAV per share total return NAVTR The long term incentive awards whose performance measurement against the Retail Prices Index RPI, which for bonus purposes was taken periods ended during the year were all of the matching share awards as 3%, or actual RPI if greater, with bonus payments for this element granted in 2015 under the companys deferred bonus plan, half of the commencing with a 10% pay-out if the companys NAVTR matched RPI, awards granted in 2013 under the performance share scheme and increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if one-third of the awards under that scheme granted in 2015. outperformance of 7% or more was achieved.
Mr Cayzer-Colvins pool performance was assessed by reference to the return achieved by the The vesting of the 2015 matching awards was dependent on the Funds pool over the year, with payments commencing on achievement of performance of the companys annualised NAVTR over the three year a total return of 6%, rising to a maximum pay-out against a total return of period, with vesting commencing at 20% for an annualised NAVTR of 4%, 13.5%, and pool objectives, by measures such as increasing Caledonias rising to maximum vesting for an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
The vesting knowledge of the Asian and US fund universe, ensuring Caledonia is well of the 2013 awards under the performance share scheme was dependent positioned with managers raising new funds and refining and executing on the performance of the companys NAVTR over the five financial years the Funds pool strategy.
Individual performance for each executive ended 31 March 2018 measured against the FTSE All-Share Total Return director was assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start index FTSE index.
Vesting was on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting of the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, on achievement of 0.5% outperformance of the benchmark index, rising Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 53 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration on a straight line basis to 100% vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the Chairman and non-executive directors index.
For the purpose of calculating the performance measures, Fees and other remuneration paid to the Chairman and the averages of the figures for the companys NAVTR and the benchmark index published over the three months prior to the start and end of the non-executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2018 and performance period were used to reduce volatility.
the previous year were as follows: For the 2015 performance share scheme awards, for Mr Wyatt and Mr King these were measured by reference to Caledonias annualised Fees NAVTR performance over three years.
Vesting was on a graduated basis, 2018 2017 commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, 000 000 rising incrementally to 100% vesting on an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For 1 Mr Cayzer-Colvin, 40% of his awards were measured against Caledonias D C Stewart 118 44 annualised NAVTR as above, and 60% by reference to the annualised total S J Bridges 46 46 return achieved by the Funds pool, with graduated vesting commencing Hon C W Cayzer 40 100 at 10% on achievement of an annualised total return of 6%, rising 3 incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total G B Davison 11 return of 13.5%.
C H Gregson 51 50 For the 2015 deferred bonus matching share awards, the companys S C R Jemmett-Page 43 42 NAVTR over the three year performance period was 7.1% resulting in a 4 R D Kent 56 185 71% vesting level.
5 H Y H Bol For the 2013 performance share scheme awards, Caledonias NAVTR increased by 66.57% over the five years to 31 March 2018, compared with 1.
Mr Stewart was appointed Chairman on 20 July 2017. an increase of 45.99% in the FTSE index.
The Hon C W Cayzers fees for 2017 included 60,000 paid by a subsidiary in full.
in respect of his services as Chairman of The Sloane Club.
For the 2015 performance share scheme awards measured over the three 3.
Mr Davison was appointed a director on 1 January 2018. years to 31 March 2018, Caledonias annualised NAVTR over the period 4.
Mr Kent retired from the board on 20 July 2017. was 7.1%, resulting in 71% vesting.
Mr Bol resigned from the board on 7 September 2017.
Mr Bol waived measured by reference to his pools performance, the Funds pool all fees arising from his appointment.
delivered an annualised total return of 12.1% over the period, resulting in 82% vesting.
Total pension entitlements audited The amounts shown in the table above under long term incentives Defined contribution therefore comprised the value of the vested deferred bonus plan matching awards granted in 2015 and the vested performance share Pension benefits paid to executive directors during the year, either scheme awards granted in 2013 and 2015, based on the companys share as contributions to personal pension arrangements or as cash price at 31 March 2018 of 2650p, together with the value of dividends and supplements, were as follows: any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the vested shares during the relevant retention periods and also the value of dividend equivalents that would have accrued on the compulsory deferred bonus Pension Cash plan awards granted in 2015 that gave rise to the matching share awards.
contribrution supplement Total These are analysed as follows: 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Value of W P Wyatt 103,702 101,141 103,702 101,141 long term Value of S A King 57,821 56,377 57,821 56,377 incentive dividend awards equivalents Total J M B Cayzer- 000 000 000 Colvin 48,863 47,671 48,863 47,671 W P Wyatt 814 123 937 S A King 578 87 665 Defined benefit J M B Cayzer-Colvin 497 75 572 Until 26 April 2017, The Hon C W Cayzer was a deferred member of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, a final salary defined benefit scheme.
He reached his normal retirement age of 60 on that date, at which point he began drawing his pension benefits.
54 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited The table below sets out the awards made to each executive director during the year under the companys performance share scheme and under the deferred bonus plan.
Receivable if Face Share Shares minimum value of price at comprised performance End of 1 2 award grant in award achieved performance Scheme Type of award Basis of award 000 p number % period W P Wyatt Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 150% of salary 787 2837p 27,732 10 31.03.22 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 256 2837p 9,016 100 31.03.20 Total scheme interests awarded 1,045 36,748 S A King Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 150% of salary 564 2837p 19,880 10 31.03.22 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 183 2837p 6,461 100 31.03.20 Total scheme interests awarded 747 26,341 J M B Cayzer-Colvin Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 150% of salary 477 2837p 16,800 10 31.03.22 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 155 2837p 5,464 100 31.03.20 Total scheme interests awarded 632 22,264 1.
The number of shares comprised in the awards under the performance share scheme and the deferred bonus plan was determined by reference to the companys share price at the time that the awards were made.
The performance targets for awards under the performance share scheme are set out under the statement of directors share scheme interests below.
Compulsory awards under the deferred bonus plan are subject to a service condition only.
External directorships plans until the minimum shareholding is met.
For these purposes, shareholdings include those of connected persons and also the The table below sets out details of external directorships held by value, net of any exercise costs, income tax and National Insurance executive directors where it had been agreed that they could contributions, of unexercised options granted under the retain the fees arising therefrom.
companys executive share option scheme and awards granted under its performance share scheme for which the performance Fees targets have been met.
Also included are bonuses deferred, 2018 2017 Position 000 000 compulsorily or voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus S A King Senior non-executive 56 50 plan and any uncalled bonus matching shares for which the director, performance targets have been met, again net of income tax and TT Electronics plc National Insurance contributions.
J M B Cayzer-Colvin Non-executive Chairman, 34 34 For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding has The Henderson Smaller been set at 200% of basic salary and for other executive directors Companies Investment 150% of basic salary.
All of the executive directors have attained Trust plc the minimum guideline shareholding as at 31 March 2018.
The values of the relevant shareholdings of each executive director as Payments to past directors audited at 31 March 2018, calculated by reference to Caledonias closing There were no payments made to former directors during share price on that date of 2650p, and the percentage level by the year.
which the value of the minimum guideline shareholding has been achieved were as follows: Payments for loss of office audited Value of Attainment There were no payments for loss of office made during the year to shareholding of guideline any director or former director.
m % W P Wyatt 30.9 2,864 S A King 1.4 234 Statement of directors shareholdings and scheme J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10.3 2,110 interests audited Executive directors minimum shareholding guidelines In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted guidelines for minimum shareholdings, which executive directors will be expected to attain through the retention of all post-tax share awards vesting under the companys long term incentive Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 55 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration 1.
Or date of cessation, if earlier.
Or date of appointment, if later.
The interests of the directors who served during the year and their 3.
Mr Wyatts beneficial interests included 1,001,366 shares 2017 972,066 connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the company as shares held by The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons, at 31 March 2018 were as follows: and 1,000 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer had a non-beneficial interest 2017 nil.
His non-beneficial interests included 12,500 shares Beneficial Non-beneficial 2017 12,500 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer also held a 1 2 1 2 2018 2017 2018 2017 non-beneficial interest.
The Hon C W Cayzers beneficial interests number number number number included 4,200 shares 2017 4,200 shares in which Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin had non-beneficial interests.
Mr Davison was appointed a director on 1 January 2018.
Mr Kent retired from the board on 20 July 2017.
3 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 374,320 374,320 65,953 65,953 There have been no changes in the directors interests shown S J Bridges 5,309 5,309 above notified up to the date of this report.
3 Hon C W Cayzer 40,092 40,092 13,500 12,500 4 G B Davison C H Gregson 1,610 1,610 S C R Jemmett-Page 1,000 1,000 5 R D Kent 10,000 10,000 6 H Y H Bol Directors share scheme interests The interests of directors as at 31 March 2018 in the share-based incentive schemes operated by the company are set out in the following table.
Unvested Unvested Share price with without Vested at date performance performance but un- 1 2 3 of award conditions conditions exercised Total W P Wyatt Performance share scheme awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 17,137 17,137 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 13,799 13,799 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 17,507 6,215 23,722 Granted 26.05.16 nil-cost 2422p 26,401 26,401 Granted 21.07.17 nil-cost 2837p 27,732 27,732 85,439 23,352 108,791 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 10,400 10,400 Granted 21.07.17 nil-cost 2837p 9,016 9,016 9,016 10,400 19,416 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 7,384 7,384 7,384 7,384 Total share scheme interests 85,439 32,368 17,784 135,591 During the year, Mr Wyatt exercised performance share scheme awards and deferred bonus plan awards over a total of 48,412 shares at a pre-tax gain of 1,380,846.
56 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Unvested Unvested Share price with without Vested at date performance performance but un- 1 2 3 of award conditions conditions exercised Total S A King Performance share scheme awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 12,160 12,160 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 9,791 9,791 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 12,422 4,410 16,832 Granted 26.05.16 nil-cost 2422p 18,921 18,921 Granted 21.07.17 nil-cost 2837p 19,880 19,880 61,014 16,570 77,584 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 7,379 7,379 Granted 21.07.17 nil-cost 2837p 6,461 6,461 6,461 7,379 13,840 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 5,239 5,239 5,239 5,239 Total share scheme interests 61,014 23,031 12,618 96,663 During the year, Mr King exercised performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan awards over 34,350 shares at a pre-tax gain of 979,758.
Performance conditions similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on Performance share scheme achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising The nil-cost options granted on 12 June 2013 were subject to a target incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total related to the companys NAVTR performance against the FTSE index return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance measured over five years.
Awards vest on a graduated basis, with 10% share scheme awards for these grants will be measured against vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the benchmark, rising to maximum Caledonias NAVTR as above.
For the nil-cost options granted on vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
For the purpose of calculating the 27 November 2014, the relevant performance conditions will be tested performance measure, averages of the companys NAVTR and the over five years.
For the nil-cost options granted on 26 June 2015, 26 May FTSE index over the three months prior to the start and end of the 2016 and 21 July 2017, the relevant performance conditions will be performance period were used to reduce volatility.
Vested awards may tested over three years for one-third of the shares comprised in an be exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary of award and over five years for the remaining two-thirds of the shares the date of grant.
For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King on 27 November The nil-cost options granted on 12 June 2013 were performance tested 2014, 26 June 2015, 26 May 2016 and 21 July 2017, shares will vest on a against their relevant target as at 31 March 2018 and all achieved graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% if the company maximum vesting.
The one-third of the shares comprised in the nil-cost achieves an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising incrementally to 100% options granted on 26 May 2015 subject to three-year performance vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For Mr testing was tested as at 31 March 2018 and achieved a 71% vesting level Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance for those measured against Caledonias NAVTR.
The proportion of share scheme awards granted on these dates will be measured against Mr Cayzer-Colvins nil-cost options measured against the Funds pools the annualised total returns achieved by the Funds pool.
Awards will total return achieved an 82% vesting level.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 57 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Deferred bonus plan matching awards approved executive share options granted in 2008, which the For the matching awards granted on 26 June 2015, shares vested on a Remuneration Committee determined should vest based on the graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 20% if the company measurement of the performance targets up to the date of his achieves an annualised NAVTR measured over three years of 4%, rising retirement.
The percentage of short term incentives shown as vesting for incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of Mr Wyatt in 2011 related to his annual bonus for that year, the total 10%.
These awards achieved a vesting level at 71% and the vested shares amount of which has been included in the corresponding single figure for must be called within 12 months of vesting.
Other exercise conditions Subsequent to his retirement, Mr Ingram exercised further share options Performance share scheme at a pre-tax gain of 119,413 in the 2014 financial year.
For nil-cost options shares that vest following the three or five year performance testing become immediately exercisable on the third or fifth anniversary of grant, as applicable.
Percentage change in remuneration of 3.
Vested but unexercised Chief Executive Shares vested but unexercised represent those awards that are immediately exercisable without any conditions.
The following table shows the percentage change in the basic salary, value of taxable benefits and short term incentives paid to Performance graph of total shareholder return and the Chief Executive in the year to 31 March 2018 against the table of Chief Executives total remuneration previous financial year, compared with the average percentage The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return changes in those components of pay of Caledonias other staff on a per capita basis.
The Chief Executive received an increase in basic TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the nine financial years ending on 31 March 2018.
TSR has been salary for the 2018 financial year of 2.5%, the same as the standard increase awarded to Caledonias staff.
The per capita percentage calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend dates.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index has been increase in basic salary for staff shown in the table is however higher due to the effect of non-standard increases awarded for chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company measures its delivery of value over the longer term.
promotions, increased responsibilities or other such adjustments.
The average per capita percentage change for staff taxable benefits TSR growth over nine years increased over the year principally due to a premium re-rating Caledonia TSR FTSE All-Share TR under the companys private medical insurance plan.
The Chief 280 Executive was awarded a bonus of 40% of basic salary, based on the companys performance and individual objectives, compared 220 with 100% in the previous year.
Caledonias staff were awarded bonuses of varying levels in each year depending on company performance, investment pool performance where relevant and 160 individual performance.
100 Staff Chief average 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Executive per capita change change The table below shows the total remuneration received by the % % Chief Executive in each of the nine years to 31 March 2018, Basic salary 2.5 3.5 prepared on the same basis as in the single total figure in the table Taxable benefits 4.4 11.5 on page 53, and the percentage of the maximum potential short Short term incentives 59.0 48.7 and long term incentives received in those years.
Incentives vested Relative importance of spend on pay as a percentage of maximum % Total The graph below shows the personnel expenses for the year of Years ended remuneration Short Long group companies consolidated under IFRS 10, compared with 1 31 March Chief Executive 000 term term amounts distributed to Caledonias shareholders by way of 2010 T C W Ingram 926 47.5 dividends and share purchases.
Mr Ingram served as Chief Executive until his retirement on 21 July 2010, Personnel expenses Dividends share purchases at which time Mr Wyatt was appointed as his successor.
The remuneration shown for 2011 represents the amounts paid to each in the period that they served as Chief Executive in that financial year.
The long term incentives held by Mr Ingram which vested in 2011 were HMRC 58 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Statement of implementation of remuneration policy Approach The Remuneration Committee will keep the implementation of in the 2019 financial year the remuneration policy under review in order to take account of The company expects to operate the remuneration policy as any changes in the companys business environment and described in the previous section without any changes in the remuneration practice generally, but with the overall aim of financial year ending 31 March 2019. ensuring that Caledonias remuneration arrangements continue to Basic salaries of executive directors support the companys strategy and deliver long term shareholder In respect of the 2019 financial year, the Remuneration Committee value by attracting and retaining talent and rewarding executives has awarded each of the executive directors inflation-based appropriately in the light of the companys performance.
increases in basic salary of 3.0%, as follows: Consideration by the directors of matters relating to Salary for year to directors remuneration 31 March 2019 2018 The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Charles Gregson Chairman, David Stewart and Shonaid Jemmett-Page, all W P Wyatt 540,000 524,500 of whom served throughout the year.
S A King 387,000 376,000 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 327,000 317,750 During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the companys main legal Chairmans and non-executive directors fees advisers, in relation to the preparation of the 2017 Directors The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees have not remuneration report, the introduction of clawback provisions into been increased for the 2019 financial year and therefore remain as the companys performance related incentive schemes and the follows: introduction of the discretion to enable the Remuneration Committee to reduce awards under the performance share Fees for years scheme rules, as described in the Chairmans annual statement.
to 31 March 2018 and 2019 The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration of the executive Chairman 150,000 directors and internal support was provided to the Remuneration Non-executive director basic fee 39,900 Committee by the Company Secretary.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 5,600 Member of the Audit Committee 2,300 Statement of voting at general meetings Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4,900 At the annual general meeting of the company held on 20 July Member of the Remuneration Committee 1,600 2017, the proxy votes lodged for the resolutions relating to Senior Independent Director Chairman of the directors remuneration were as follows: Governance Committee 5,100 Annual bonus scheme and long term incentive schemes Number % Other than the amendment to the performance share scheme To approve the 2017 Directors rules to introduce a discretion to enable the Remuneration remuneration report other than the directors remuneration policy Committee to reduce the number of awards that might vest in Votes in favour 35,550,450 99.3 certain circumstances as described in the Chairmans annual Votes against 269,827 0.7 statement, no changes to the companys annual bonus or long Total votes cast 35,820,277 term incentive schemes are anticipated for the 2019 financial year.
Votes withheld 45,815 To approve the 2017 directors remuneration policy Votes in favour 35,568,437 99.2 Votes against 285,805 0.8 Total votes cast 35,854,242 Votes withheld 11,850 This report was approved by the board on 24 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 59
