20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operational Review continued Cairn in Senegal Working Responsibly Senegal: creating shared value Throughout our work in Senegal we have sought to create and add value by working responsibly.
Our objective was and is to build a resource base that can be developed to maximise the value for Senegal as a country and improve its energy security.
Social investment Cairn has supported The Hunger Project in Senegal since 2015 In working responsibly in Senegal our focus environments and to set the tone for our Our country presence has been on: approach to operating in country, and form In 2014, to support the drilling of our initial Ensuring the safety of our personnel and our approach to building local and national wells, we opened an office in the capital contractors at all times: capacity and social investment programmes Dakar with a local and international team Working with local suppliers and in the years to come.
whose focus was to work closely with the contractors wherever possible and Government, suppliers and local providing appropriate training to build their Protecting the environment and communities.
In 2015 we re-generated a capabilities and national capacity: communities former industrial site in the international port Identifying and engaging with our many In order to identify the potential impacts area to build a modern, shore base supply stakeholders in country to ensure we act exploration drilling could have on the local facility operating in line with best industry with respect and to identify early on those population and habitats, we have carried practice and contracting in excess of 30 local who might be affected by our activities: out both statutory and voluntary consultation staff involved in activities including yard Providing targeted social investment for as part of the Environmental Social Impact operations, vessel loading, HSE supervision, communities: and Assessments.
This consultation ensures customs management, driving, security and Operating to international and high that potentially affected and interested stevedoring.
This is part of Cairns approach internal standards at all times.
stakeholders have the opportunity to ask to operations in any country to maximise questions about our activities.
local participation, including employing local Understanding our stakeholders On first entering Senegal in 2013 and ahead of drilling, a key focus, as wherever we operate, was on identifying our stakeholders.
To help identify stakeholders, we undertook in-country research trips, engaged with partners and consultants based in Senegal, used local and corporate media monitors and internet sources and commissioned an external agency to carry out a stakeholder mapping exercise.
Amongst others, we held meetings with national and regional government bodies, industry associations, fishermens organisations, public research centres, supply chain representatives and NGOs.
This engagement helped us to understand local concerns, communities and Understanding our stakeholders 2013 ESIA consultation Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Strategic Report people and working with local companies local skills.
We have engaged local Investment in Senegal to date wherever possible.
Following the transfer of companies in logistics and supply base operatorship to Woodside in December 2018 support, waste management services, we retain an office in Dakar.
aircraft handling services, transport services, fishing liaison, administration, US$463m Our investment accommodation and environmental Following the 2014 discoveries, as our and social consultancy services.
operational activity increased so too has our investment and our focus on delivering Today we are delighted to have played sustainable and economic benefit for a founding part in the launch of Invest in Senegal and its people.
Our belief is that Africa in Senegal, an initiative to promote the development of sustainable oil and gas development of local SMEs and facilitate production in Senegal will greatly benefit their access to oil and gas industry projects the national economy and therefore the and other multi-national projects, and the local population.
To date Cairn has invested National Petroleum Institute which aims to US$463 million through its activities develop national expertise in the oil and gas in Senegal.
Both of these have the common aim of building national capacity Building local capacity and participation.
Given that oil and gas activities are relatively new to Senegal, we aim to support and build local industry expertise.
As such, developing Our country presence Dakar office team, 2015 capacity through training and education has been, and remains, a key part of our operations.
As part of this, in our Dakar office we have offered a number of training opportunities including English language training, HSE training and organised visits to our headquarters in Edinburgh to reinforce our culture and to improve communications and cultural understanding.
We have provided training to more than 162 officers of the relevant regulatory authorities to support the oil and gas regulatory environment in Senegal.
This training covered oil and gas industry awareness, HSE awareness, offshore safety, offshore emergency response including oil spill response, waste management and English language training.
We have also provided English language training to 75 geoscience and science students at the University of Dakar to build Building local capacity Stena DrillMAX drillship, drilled 2014 discovery wells Our country presence Our shore base team, 2017 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operational Review continued Cairn in Senegal Working Responsibly continued Social investment We have supported targeted social investment programmes with a total expenditure of US$1.1 million to date.
In Senegal much of this has taken place through The Hunger Project THP, a charity committed to reducing hunger and poverty.
THP has operated in Senegal since 1991.
We first started supporting them in 2015 and in 2016 we established a pilot project with THP that continues to run and that aims to support more than 20,000 people from seven coastal fishing village communities in the Yenne area adjacent to areas where Cairn operates.
This is a direct result of our initial stakeholder consultation findings in 2013 which identified the fishing industry as a key area in need of support and potentially impacted by our activities.
We are delighted that in 2018 this project has resulted in the Social investment The Hunger Project mobilisation of seven village communities working to improve safety at sea, health and sanitation, gender equality, micro-finance value of US$707,902 and results from THPs We have also supported ECOBAG, a local and income generating activities such as the investment of US$3,700 using joint venture business which collects plastic waste and laying of octopus pots which are a high value funding.
As a result of this successful 2017 recycles it into plastic pellets for re-use, product for fishermen.
pilot programme and the resultant from its early beginnings to an established community profit, 1,700 breeding pots were ongoing concern.
ECOBAG was the winner of 1,600 octopus breeding pots were laid in laid in 2018, significantly more than the the Great Entrepreneur Project, a competition 2017 resulting in the landing of 104,382kg of original estimate to lay 1,000 pots in 2018. for local entrepreneurs, which was run by the octopus in Yenne in 2018.
This equates to a British Council and sponsored by Cairn.
Transferring operatorship In December 2018 we transferred which is focused on sharing the Transparency Initiative in Senegal operatorship of the SNE value generated by these oil and and the foundation of programmes development project to our joint gas discoveries through the way to support capacity building, local venture partner Woodside.
We are in which we work, our contributions participation and the mobilisation proud to be handing over a project to the Extractive Industries of communities in Senegal.
Social investment Laying the octopus breeding pots Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic Report Case study Working with Cairn in Senegal Alioune Dieng is a Senegalese national who has worked for Cairn Energy PLC since we opened our office in Dakar before the 2014 discoveries.
Alioune joined Cairn as Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Adviser and has played an important part in progressing this project from the exploration to the development stage.
As part of the transfer of operatorship of the SNE field to Woodside, Alioune also transferred as an employee from Cairn to Woodside.
Before this we caught up with Alioune to get his take on the emergence of the oil and gas industry in Senegal, and on the evolution of the SNE development project and the role he has played.
On the emergence of the oil and gas permitting approval and we would like to industry in Senegal thank the Senegalese authorities for their As a Senegalese, I am very excited that support and the partnerships they have my country will soon be an oil and gas built with our Company.
The Senegalese people welcome it, and this will benefit the country There are two things which I have most as a whole.
It is important to Senegal in enjoyed during this journey.
The first is terms of securing the countrys supply having the chance to work in a team of petroleum products, improvement of where people are very keen to share their power generation and possible lower knowledge and to work together.
As a new electricity prices for consumers, jobs industry, this is the type of behaviour that creation and infrastructure construction.
The other is our achievements in protecting people, the environment, On Aliounes role our assets and our reputation as part I am responsible for all HSE and Security of this success.
matters in our Senegal operations, acting as the focal point of various social On handing over operatorship Saraou Kombo, Cairn Office Senegal and investment programmes and advising on As we effect the transfer of operatorship Alioune Dieng, now Woodside, at MSGBC regulatory permits and approvals relating Iam proud to have been part of projects Conference, Dakar.
A lot of my time is such as supporting the Yenne fishing spent on stakeholder engagement, liaising communities, the English language training with governmental departments, local for young Senegalese students and A l ot of my time is spent on community and municipal leaders.
Senegalese civil servants, and the enterprise development opportunities stakeholder engagement, My greatest challenge has been around which will take shape through Invest in liaising with governmental permitting, which all oil and gas activities Africa.
Throughout this project our focus departments, local start with.
Cairn has a rigorous approach to has been on building relationships with government permissions and approvals, so different stakeholders.
We have organised community and municipal we always submit permit applications on many different industry workshops and leaders.
time and provide required information to training courses, and compared to 2014 we the Senegalese authorities to make their are really pleased to notice an increased decision making process easier and understanding of the industry and the quicker.
Since starting work in Senegal challenges and opportunities which await we have never experienced a delay on our country.
