Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Business model and strategy How we create value What we do Caledonia invests in proven well-managed businesses that combine long term growth characteristics with an ability to deliver increasing levels of income.
We identify and invest in companies To deliver on that meet our investment goals and our strategic risk appetite objectives We organise our portfolio into four pools, each with a strategic 1 Deliver FTSE allocation of capital, investment strategy and return targets, with All-Share an overall balance to provide a long term, risk mitigated return in line with our strategic objectives outperformance over ten years and Quoted pool Income pool shorter term returns between RPI 3% and 25-40% 15-20% RPI 6% Strategic allocation Strategic allocation 2 P ay an increasing annual dividend 10% 7% 3 Manage investment Target return Target return Investments in global listed equity risk consistent with Equity holdings in listed companies with a reliable and growing annual with proven long term returns, long term wealth income stream targeting a net global reach and strong market yield of 4.5% pa, and providing a generation presence.
Opportunities are source of readily accessible liquidity.
Opportunities are identified through research.
Unquoted pool Funds pool 35-45% 15-20% Strategic allocation Strategic allocation 14% 12.5% Target return Target return Holdings in established private Invests in private equity and quoted companies with proven market funds to provide exposure to management teams, seeking long regions and sectors where we are term growth capital.
Opportunities less able to invest directly.
We search are identified through our network for successful fund managers, whom of contacts.
we monitor for an extensive period before committing funds.
6 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information How we do it Caledonias family backing, long term reputation, network of contacts and proprietary capital differentiates our investment proposition and underpins our ability to deliver long term capital growth and increasing annual dividends for shareholders.
We use our resources To apply our disciplined and relationships investment process The Caledonia team Our investment process is at the heart of We aim to recruit and retain high quality creating investment returns and is tailored to investment executives to maintain deal flow the nature and risk of each pool.
Investment and investment continuity, who understand opportunities are identified through our and can execute Caledonias investment business network and company research.
initial review will identify opportunities with characteristics which meet our strategic risk Business network return appetite.
Essential to support our business, our Extensive and ongoing business and financial reputation as a supportive and constructively due diligence is conducted, often using involved long term investor enables us to independent advisers, before a final investment develop our network of business contacts.
Investments are subject to a They assist us to identify opportunities and formal executive approval process and carry out due diligence, as well as being continuous performance monitoring and risk invaluable to the management of our investee reviews.
Board approval is required for all investments Strong balance sheet and disposals over 20m.
Our strong balance sheet, with no permanent corporate debt, allows us the flexibility to invest in both private equity and quoted opportunities over a longer ten year To manage investment risk timeframe, significantly reducing the investment cycle risk.
Strategic investment allocation Reputation Investment timing Caledonias heritage can be traced back to the Investment volatility shipping empire established by Sir Charles Cayzer in 1878 and still benefits from the Liquidity backing of the Cayzer family.
Caledonia has Geographical exposures been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1960, has been an investment company Resources and relationships since 1987 and with investment trust status since 2003.
Reputation Investee leverage Regulation Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 7
