66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon James Ian Todd Alexander Keith Peter Nicoletta Thomson Smith Tyler Hunt Berger Lough Kallos Giadrossi Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 54 42 58 66 53 60 59 52 Committee membership SL RM N SL RM N R A A N R N R A N Term of office Simon was appointed to the Board in James was appointed to the Board in Ian was appointed as an independent Todd was appointed as an independent Alexander was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an independent Peter was appointed as an independent Nicoletta was appointed as an November 2006 as Legal and Commercial May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Director in June 2013 and Non-Executive Director in May 2003. independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in May 2015.
Non-Executive Director in September 2015. independent Non-Executive Director Director and became Chief Executive in became Non-Executive Chairman in Given his length of tenure, he is no longer in May 2010.
Alexander will retire as a in January 2017.
May 2014. considered to be independent in terms Director following the AGM on 17 May 2019. of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Skills and experience LLB Hons, BA Hons, Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Business Administration, Masters in Petroleum Engineering, MA Economics, BSc Hons Applied Physics, BA in Mathematics and Economics, Aberdeen University University of Oxford Birmingham University University of Texas Delft University University of Edinburgh Strathclyde University Yale University Diploma in Legal Practice, MBA Rotterdam School of Management MSc in Finance, London Business School MEng Petroleum Engineering, MBA, Harvard Business School Glasgow University Heriot Watt University Simon Thomson was appointed Chief James Smith joined Cairn in March 2014 Ian Tyler qualified as a chartered Todd Hunt has more than 45 years Alexander Berger is Chief Executive Officer Keith Lough is a Fellow Chartered Certified Peter Kallos has held a number of posts at Nicoletta Giadrossi spent 10 years at Executive in July 2011 having been Legal from Rothschild where he was a Director accountant with Arthur Andersen in 1987, experience in the oil and gas industry.
of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. a private Accountant FCCA and was Finance Enterprise Oil including Head of Business General Electric where she became and Commercial Director since 2006 and of the energy and power team with 15 subsequently holding a number of senior He is President and joint owner of Atropos Dutch exploration and production company Director of British Energy PLC from 2001 Development, CEO Enterprise Italy and General Manager for their Oil and Gas, holding various posts across the years experience advising exploration finance and operational positions within Exploration Company and Atropos based in Amsterdam.
to 2004 before becoming a founder General Manager of the UK business Refinery & Petrochemicals Division.
organisation, including Head of Assets.
and production companies, oil majors and listed companies before being appointed Production Company based in Dallas, shareholder and Chief Executive of before his appointment in 2002 as Subsequently, she spent a number of Simon originally joined Cairn in 1995. national oil companies on their merger Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc from Texas.
Composite Energy Ltd, a privately Executive Vice President International years in private equity ahead of being and acquisition transactions and equity 2005 to 2013.
During this time, he took the owned coal-bed methane focused and Offshore at Petro-Canada.
In 2010, appointed a Vice President and General and debt market financing.
company from being primarily a UK business.
He held this post until 2011, Peter became Chief Executive of Buried Manager at Dresser-Rand.
She later joined construction business, to a global when Composite was divested Hill Energy.
Aker for two years before taking up the infrastructure services business.
role of President Region A, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Russia & India at Technip, a role she held from 2014 to 2016.
Key external appointments Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: Public companies: None No external appointments Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc None None Non-Executive Chairman of Executive Chairman of Buried HillEnergy Non-Executive Director of Fincantieri Rockhopper Exploration PLC S. p. A.
Non-public companies: Non-Executive Chairman of Bovis Homes Non-public companies: Non-public companies: Non-public companies: Group PLC Non-Executive Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Brembo S. p. A Non-Executive Director of Grahams The President and joint owner of Chief Executive Officer of Oranje-Nassau None Gulf Keystone plc Family Dairy Limited Non-public companies: Atropos Exploration Company Energie B. V. Non-Executive Director of IHS Markit Ltd. and Atropos Production Company Non-public companies: Director of Grahams The Family Dairy Independent Chairman of AWE Director of Oranje-Nassau Energie Non-public companies: Group Limited Management Limited UK Limited Non-Executive Director of Chair of TecHouse As the UK Gas and Electricity Non-Executive Director of Edinburgh Non-Executive Chairman of Amey PLC Director of Oranje-Nassau Energy Markets Authority Art Festival a wholly owned subsidiary of a Spanish Petroleum Limited listed company Chairman of RSI GeoscienceLtd.
Non-Executive Director of Discover Exploration Limited Committee membership key Committee Chair A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Leadership and Governance Non-Executive Directors Simon James Ian Todd Alexander Keith Peter Nicoletta Thomson Smith Tyler Hunt Berger Lough Kallos Giadrossi Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 54 42 58 66 53 60 59 52 Committee membership SL RM N SL RM N R A A N R N R A N Term of office Simon was appointed to the Board in James was appointed to the Board in Ian was appointed as an independent Todd was appointed as an independent Alexander was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an independent Peter was appointed as an independent Nicoletta was appointed as an November 2006 as Legal and Commercial May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Director of Discover Exploration Limited As at 11 March 2019 SL Senior Leadership Team RM Risk Management Committee
