6 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategy and Key Performance Indicators We set strategic objectives annually which monitor delivery of strategy and which are measured by Key Performance Indicators KPIs set by the Board.
Our risk management process identifies the principal risks to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Working responsibly is a key part of our business model and our KPIs directly measure our ability to work responsibly.
Strategic objective: Deliver exploration success Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Mature prospects to drill ready status.
Mature six or more prospects with all internal Prospects successfully matured, assured Partially Successfully drill and evaluate a Lack of exploration success.
and recommended during 2018 for drilling programme of six exploration wells 25% 11.5% Secure funds and JV support for drilling.
in 2018 or 2019 including two prospects in across our portfolio.
Drill four or more exploration wells before Execute exploration drilling, to deliver Block 9, Mexico: one prospect in Block 7, year end 2018.
Discover potentially commercial potentially commercial volumes to add Mexico: the Agar-Plantain prospect in the UK hydrocarbons in line with to our Group Reserves and Resources Efficiently discover commercial quantities of drilled 2018 : the Chimera prospect in the pre-drill expectations.
hydrocarbons in line with pre-drill estimates UK: and the Godalen prospect in Norway.
at an attractive Group finding efficiency rate Mature up to six new independent Wells on Ekland and Agar-Plantain, each in including estimated subsequent appraisal exploration prospects with JV support the UK, were drilled in 2018 with an oil requirements.
for drilling in the period 2020-2021. discovery made on Agar-Plantain.
2C volumes discovered were lower than pre-drill estimates.
18 Read more: Operational Review on P18 32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Strategic objective: Mature developments Progress Senegal and Nova development projects Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Mature the Senegal SNE development and Timely submission of the SNE Area The SNE Area Evaluation Report was Substantially Mature the SNE field development Delay in Senegal development plan.
achieved funding plans for presentation to the Evaluation Report, Exploitation Plan submitted to the Ministry of Energy in project in Senegal to Final Investment 17% 13% Reliance on JV operators for asset Government of Senegal.
and associated Environmental and July 2018.
Mature the Nova development project in The SNE Field Development Phase 1 Progress the Nova development Norway to Final Investment Decision.
Approval of the SNE Exploitation Plan and environmental and social impact assessment project against key predefined associated Exploitation Area by the end of was submitted to the authorities in June 2018 project milestones.
the production sharing contract PSC term and approved in January 2019. and finalisation and approval of joint venture The SNE Exploitation Plan was submitted to financing plan.
the authorities in October 2018 and is Submission of the Nova Plan of technically approved, subject to finalisation Development to Norwegian authorities in H1 of the front end engineering design.
The joint 2018 and all internal approvals in place to venture financing plan is underway and complete a Final Investment Decision and expected to be concluded during 2019. approve the operator entering into The Final Investment Decision was taken on acceptable contractual commitments on the Nova development in H1 2018 and the behalf of the joint venture during 2018.
Plan of Development submitted to the Norwegian authorities also in H1 2018.
Read more: Operational Review on P18 18 32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Strategic objective: Portfolio management Portfolio optimisation and replenishment Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity th Secure two or more new exploration Each new exploration opportunity secured Awarded five licences in the UK 30 Fully achieved Secure two new venture opportunities Securing new venture opportunities.
opportunities that enhance our portfolio, will be measured against tests of: Offshore Exploration Licence Round, that meet corporate hurdles and have 10% 10% meet corporate hurdles and offer exploration operating two of the awards.
risk levels consistent with our Risk i control: drilling in the near to medium term.
Measured against Completed one farm-in in the UK with the ii commercial robustness based on tests of control, materiality and option to operate.
success case Pmean economics: and commercial robustness.
Secured one block in the Mexico Licence iii materiality based on documented Round 3.1, as operator.
Secured one block offshore Suriname, as operator.
18 Read more: Operational Review on P18 32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Strategic Report Strategic objective: Deliver exploration success Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Mature prospects to drill ready status.
18 Read more: Operational Review on P18 32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 8 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategy and Key Performance Indicators continued Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Deliver value in a safe, secure and environmentally and socially responsible manner Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Demonstrate clear progress and achieve Achievements of leading indicators linked to Good progress against leading indicators Substantially Demonstrate clear progress and achieve Health, safety, environment achieved defined milestones in relation to health, the four key categories listed.
There were zero lost time injuries, recordable defined milestones in relation to HSSE and security.
15% 13.5% safety, security, environment HSSE injuries or spills across Cairn operations.
CR objectives, split into four key Lagging indicators set in line with IOGP Fraud, bribery and corruption.
corporate responsibility CR objectives, categories Governance, Society, targets and guidelines.
Good progress made against leading Reliance on JV operators for split into four key categories: Society and People and the Environment.
Communities: People: the Environment: and Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in Inductions on the Code of Ethics Business Relationships.
completed by all new staff: Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line Anti-bribery and corruption assessment with the International Association of Oil and completed for all new assets: Gas Producers IOGP targets and guidelines.
Inclusion of Modern Slavery Act conditions in all relevant contracts and issue of the first Cairn Modern Slavery Act statement: Outperformed our training plan for Crisis and Emergency Response Team training in preparedness for the UK operated well: and Health and well-being, talent management and management development programmes all successfully developed and launched.
32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 46 Read more: Working Responsibly on P46 Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence Maximise revenues through efficient operations Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Deliver target production volumes, operating Measured against target net oil production Catcher Target net oil production volumes Partially Ensure production and operating cash Kraken and Catcher operational and achieved costs and crude values from Kraken and volumes, operating costs per bbl targets, were exceeded, at better than target flow from Kraken and Catcher are at or project performance.
average crude realisation relative to brent operating costs and realised at a price within within guidance on net production Reliance on JV operators for targets and 1P 2P targets.
Reserves at Catcher volume and lifting cost per barrel.
Kraken 2018 KPI target production volumes and operating costs were not met in 2018 but the price realised for the crude was better than target.
Reserves at Kraken have been downgraded.
32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Read more: Operational Review on P18 18 Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business Manage balance sheet strength Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Substantially Develop and implement a funding strategy Funding strategy implementation measured Funding headroom was maintained Implement funding strategy to support Volatile oil and gas prices.
achieved that ensures that an executable funding plan against four funding strategy criteria being throughout the year covering the Groups exploration, appraisal and development 18% 13.5% Political and fiscal uncertainties.
is developed and that a minimum headroom met throughout the year.
activity and to mitigate any downside Access to debt markets.
cushion from existing sources of funding revenue scenarios.
Measured against positive progress achieved Debt covenants were maintained with Inability to secure or repatriate value is maintained.
in the UK-India bilateral treaty arbitration and surplus in each quarter.
Progress the UK-India bilateral treaty from Indian assets.
Success in the action under the UK India a successful award.
arbitration to conclusion and receipt of Liquidity was increased during the year to bilateral treaty arbitration.
awarded sums in event of success.
add material new exploration commitments in Mexico Suriname and UK Norway.
All arbitration hearings have taken place.
Whilst the award has not yet been made, recognition had been given for the progress made in the process and for the significant strategic planning that had been carried out for the result.
32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Read more: Financial Review on P41 41 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic Report Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Deliver value in a safe, secure and environmentally and socially responsible manner Weighting Bonus awarded KPI Remuneration 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 Performance Committee decision 2019 KPI Key risks to the delivery of this objective as % of allocated proportion of maximum opportunity Demonstrate clear progress and achieve Achievements of leading indicators linked to Good progress against leading indicators Substantially Demonstrate clear progress and achieve Health, safety, environment achieved defined milestones in relation to health, the four key categories listed.
32 Read more: How we Manage Risk on P32 Read more: Financial Review on P41 41
