52 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Viability statement Scenario 2: An information security breach The Board has conducted stress tests against The transformation plan described a significant loss of data or release of a each individual scenario in order to test the earlier in the strategic report significant amount of sensitive personal resilience of the Group taking into account underpins the viability of the client data.
The Board has considered, among the efficacy of possible mitigating actions.
other items, the potential impact to cash and In addition to testing individual scenarios, profits arising from potential penalties and As noted on page 65, for the going concern the Board also considered the impact of a fines, compensation payments and negative assessment, the Board has considered combination of the scenarios, again using a impacts from such reputational damage in base-case projections for the period to probability weighting, over the assessment terms of an inability to win new business or 31 December 2020 which are derived period.
This was in order to stress test an retain existing contracts.
aggregation of severe but plausible risks Provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revised Code Scenario 3: Regulatory risks serious occurring that would represent the greatest requires the Directors to also consider the breach of FCA or other regulators rules potential financial impact but in the shortviability of the Group over a longer-term impacting large number of clients and term and longer-term viability period.
period and for this viability statement the or causing systematic damage to financial The Directors considered mitigating factors Board has assessed the prospects for the services system: and failure of financial that could be employed when reviewing Group using the base-case forecasts over crime controls around anti-money these scenarios and the effectiveness of an extended period to 31 December 2021. laundering AML assessment, due diligence the actions at their disposal, which were The Board considers this three-year period to and sanction assessment leading to a applied to the models.
An example of the be appropriate, as there is sufficient clarity to significant AML incident and investigation.
actions identified included adjusting the consider the business prospects and the base The Board has considered among other items Groups investment in discretionary and case over this period provides a foundation potential fines, and any actions taken that maintenance capital projects, having due to stress test against severe but plausible may prohibit or suspend the Group from regard to the need to ensure the integrity of downside scenarios.
operating within certain regulatory regimes.
the Groups IT systems is not compromised In assessing the going concern assumption, Scenario 4: The efficacy of IT and nor the security of the data held therein: and the Board has undertaken a robust infrastructure systems and controls a further reduction in discretionary operating assessment of the forecast out-turns and significant IT incident causes failure to key expenditure.
The Board also considered the assessed identified downside risks on a systems for hosted services to major clients Groups current financing arrangements and probability-weighted basis and mitigating with failure of recover solution causing a potential ability to replace the revolving actions.
The downside risks include a number black-out for up to two weeks.
The Board credit facility with a bank facility of a of severe but plausible scenarios, also on a has considered among other items any size consistent with one of the scenarios probability-weighted basis, incorporating contractual penalties that may arise, capital modelled, should this be required.
The Board under-performance against the business costs required to address any immediate was satisfied that this, and other mitigating plan, execution risk associated with the infrastructure improvements, potential actions identified, were appropriate in transformation plan and unexpected contract terminations and the negative reviewing the impact of the scenarios arising.
These financial downsides impact on new contract wins.
Based on this assessment and assuming Scenario 1 capture political, economic and Scenario 5: A wider economic impact on the successful implementation of the reputation risks.
Group financial stability uncertainty transformation plan, the Directors have a In considering the viability of the Group, the of earnings as a result of a change in the reasonable expectation that the Group and Board has extended the financial downside UK Government to a party with a strong parent company will be able to continue in scenarios above to include stress testing and mandate for radical policy change and or the operation and meet their liabilities as they sensitivity analysis of the impact of various UKs withdrawal from the European Union.
fall due over the period of their assessment.
severe but plausible potential scenarios The Board has considered among other items involving the threats posed by other principal new barriers to entry, changes to corporate risks.
These have included but are not taxation, and the termination of public The strategic report was approved by the limited to scenarios in respect of: sector contracts.
Board and signed on behalf of the Board: Francesca Todd Group Company Secretary 13 March 2019
