22 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued Software Capitas Software division is one of the UKs largest software companies.
Our specialist enterprise software products serve sector specific and cross-sector markets in the UK and overseas.
We develop and deliver specialist application software and wider solutions for education, local government, public safety, utilities and transport, consulting and legal, and payments.
As a software products provider, our deep industry expertise and functional IP supports critical public services and business processes.
Our software and technology expertise forms a differentiating component of Capitas wider digitally-enabled services offering.
Adjusted revenue Order book Revenue is generated from licence sales, maintenance and support, and 396.4m 559.6m implementation.
Over 70% of our revenue is recurring and over 80% of licence revenue 2017: 401.7m 2017: 543.4m is recognised over the term of our client relationships, smoothing our revenue profile, Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin irrespective of whether it is a perpetual licence or a pay as you go, software as a service SaaS model.
112.4m 28.4% 2017: 111.7m 2017: 27.8% Key products SIMS Cloud-based MIS system for managing administrative Employees Key regions functions in 22,000 primary, secondary and Academy schools, with optional parental engagement, UK US payment and finance modules.
4,000 India Australasia ControlWorks The UKs leading Contact Management and Control Room solution used by Public Safety Agencies.
A single fully integrated application for all Emergency and Non-Emergency contact via a range of channels including voice, web, email, SMS and social media.
Key products Key markets Capita One Suite Education Payments Education Transport Enterprise solution for managing all revenue, financial and critical business functions within local SIMS Pay360 Local Payments authorities, housing sector, social care and education.
government Public safety Resource planning Financial Integra Public safety services ControlWorks Retain, A suite of financial accounting and purchasing Workforce Utilities Private sector software solutions, with the capability to integrate Finance & with further systems to provide an end-to-end Management housing ERP capability.
Utilities & Integra Affinity Suite transport A powerful enterprise suite of products helping FieldForce utilities, energy and infrastructure industries manage complex and evolving business challenges.
Retain A resource planning and management solution used Revenue by market Revenue by type worldwide by professional services and legal firms, 2% 9% providing a consolidated view of engagements, projects or jobs to resources.
35% Pay360 Multi-channel payment provider providing solutions across payment, fraud, digital collections and compliance capabilities across both private and 65% public sectors.
89% Public sector Long-term contractual Private sector Short-term contractual Transactional Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 23 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Accelerate investment in key products m m % and platforms.
Adjusted revenue 396.4 401.7 1.3 Transform the software life cycle Adjusted operating profit 112.4 111.7 0.6 operations across all products.
Adjusted operating margin 28.4% 27.8% Create a software development centre of excellence for production of standardised software.
Our markets and Sales and operational Create scaled, integrated shared growth drivers performance service functions.
We are a top-five provider of enterprise Over the course of 2018 we have Create a market-aligned, highsoftware products in the UK, a market been increasing our focus on sales and performing sales force and currently valued at 17bn and expected to standardising our sales processes and marketing capability.
grow at 8% CAGR through 2022 source: demand generation marketing, which is Selective sales drive in UK vertical Gartner.
Our products compete in a wide resulting in a stronger qualified pipeline.
range of market sectors, primarily in the UK, There were a number of notable wins in and in many sectors we have market-leading the year.
In partnership with Motorola 2018 progress against positions.
We mainly compete with other Solutions, we were awarded a contract specialist product software providers.
strategic priorities: to supply our ControlWorks solution to a Defined and commenced Overall market growth is being driven by major metropolitan police service in Asia.
softwares deepening role in every aspect We were also awarded a contract to provide of business and consumer life.
The drive for ControlWorks to West Midlands Police, Established digital development automation and demand for apps to engage worth 6m over 10 years, and renewed our centre in India.
with end-users is set to continue in a digitalcontract to provide support and maintenance Introduced product management first world.
In response to slower growth to the Ministry of Justice for digital radio capability across product portfolio.
in our more mature markets particularly networks across the prison estate in England Executed cost competitiveness in education and secure software we are and Wales for the next five years.
focusing on cross-selling opportunities in our payment platform, won a significant Executed US entry strategy for existing and adjacent markets and strategic contract with Luxon Payments, to support its selected products.
In response to global e-wallet launch.
SIMS won a contract shrinking education budgets and increasing with City Montessori School CMS in India, Introduced standardised core processes demand for access to cloud services, we the worlds largest private school with more across 29 businesses.
are expanding our offering to schools of than 56,000 pupils.
complimentary cloud products such as SIMS We piloted the next cloud-based version Pay and SIMS Finance.
The payments market Our strategy of our main education software product is consolidating and growth in e-commerce Our strategic priorities are focused on SIMS8, launched SIMS Finance, a cloudis driving this demand.
The growth of cloud creating a world-class specialised software based financial reporting product and started solutions has increased the accessibility products business, investing in our core development of a light-touch smartphoneof our products and allowed us to offer products with distinctive offerings and enabled version of SIMS for emerging alternative commercial models for our providing best-in-class solutions for clients in markets.
We also set up a marketing and customers to suit their requirements.
the UK and in targeted international markets.
sales operation in the US to roll out selected products, including AMTSybex, Retain, The division is implementing the Groups Financial performance Pay360 and 911eye, and consolidated strategy simplify, strengthen and succeed Adjusted revenue fell by 1.3%, reflecting multiple support desks into an integrated and transforming what was once a division good growth in AMT-Sybex and growth shared service.
of 29 siloed businesses into a single software in our cross-sector products, including business.
This transformation was started in The increasing focus on application Payments, which was offset by declines in 2017 and during 2018 many of the structural development offshoring led us to build a Healthcare Decisions, as a result of the end and operational changes required to create strong development skill base in India at a of our NHS24 Scotland contract, and Secure a single business were put in place.
We have lower cost base, with particular focus on Solutions.
built a best-in-class digital delivery centre key technologies such as cloud and digital Our book-to-bill ratio was 104%, reflecting in India for the production of standardised, transformation.
This will enable us to fully an encouraging improvement in order intake, repeatable software and to support the rest support our multi-year product development and we expect revenue to grow in 2019. of Capita and are creating scaled, integrated, cycles, critical to supporting our future Adjusted operating profit increased shared service functions.
We are investing sales pipeline.
by 1%, due to the aforementioned in both our existing and new products and changes in revenue, investments in sales, markets to defend and grow the business, including the US pilot, and benefits from with the aim of achieving mid to high single transformation actions.
