26 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued Customer Management Capita is a leading provider of multichannel customer engagement services, underpinned by fullservice business management capabilities, in the UK, Switzerland and Germany.
We primarily serve customers in the telecommunications, retail and utility sectors, from a mix of onshore locations in Europe and offshore locations in India, Poland, South Africa, Argentina and Bulgaria.
The division also provides remediation, complaints management and collections services, including TV Licensing.
Our approach is to build shared outcome partnerships, increasingly based on Adjusted revenue Order book partnering for value, not transactional supply.
The value we bring to our clients is increasingly built around transforming the 794.2m 2,011.8m customer experience through the application 2017: 828.9m 2017: 1,843.6m of data insight and analytics.
These enable us to manage complex, high-value interactions, drive positive quality improvement, and Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin improve financial benefits for clients.
39.6m 5.0% Our strategy 2017: 57.8m 2017: 7.0% We have a differentiated strategy and core-value proposition in our markets: our approach is customer experience-led, techEmployees Countries of operation enabled and underpinned by contracted UK India commitment to business outcomes.
We are 30,000 building capability to underpin our core value Germany Poland proposition that we make great customer Switzerland Argentina experience happen.
Our commercial model South Africa Bulgaria increasingly includes a commitment to client outcomes such as improvements in the net promoter score, revenue generation, Key services and contracts Key markets customer acquisition and cost-to-serve, Services Digital Retail Automotive deploying a range of operational, technology transformation.
Customer Telecoms Financial and process capabilities from within both experience Contracts and media services Customer Management and the wider Capita enhancement group.
This commitment to outcomes and O2 Utilities Travel and making great experience happen is core Revenue leisure TV Licensing to our differentiation in the marketplaces generation British Gas in which we operate.
Our operational scale Escalated case npower allows us to derive meaningful insight from complaints our customer interaction data, driving management business improvement across our operations.
Consequently, we are able to build longerterm, more strategic partnerships, with richer solutions.
Revenue by market Revenue by type 29% 2% 98% 71% Private sector Long-term contractual Public sector Short-term contractual Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 27 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Invest in our infrastructure to ensure m m % consistent, high-quality service delivery, Adjusted revenue 794.2 828.9 4.2 including facilities, core technology Adjusted operating profit 39.6 57.8 31.5 and tools.
Adjusted operating margin 5.0% 7.0% Build new digital platforms to support all channels and customer on behalf of clients.
Our market and Sales and operational Build enhanced data and analytical growth drivers performance platforms and capabilities to enable the business to drive insights from We are the largest provider of customer Our order book increased by 10% to 2.0bn customer interactions into our management services in the UK with in 2018, due to the extension and expansion client engagements.
The UK market is of existing contracts and signing of new estimated to be worth 4bn a year and contracts to deliver high-quality services Implement a stronger operating is expected to grow at approximately 4% for a number of leading clients, including: framework to standardise our per annum through 2022 source: Nelson operational routines and transfer The extension and expansion of our Hall.
The German and Swiss customer best practice across our operations, existing contract with Germanys largest management markets are estimated to be both on and offshore.
integrated telecommunications provider, valued at 4bn per annum and are expected Invest in improved consultative selling taking over the operation of three contact to grow at around 5% per annum through capability to increase origination, centres and 640 employees.
This contract to 2022. pipeline and order book.
is estimated to be worth 300m 340m In both the UK and Europe, Capita competes to Capita to December 2022.
To standardise best practice, improve with a range of local and global players for British Airways selected us to deliver a new our infrastructure, invest in people, transactional contracts, typically priced on five-year contract to deliver enhanced increase our use of technology a price per FTE hour basis, and a smaller customer services from our global centre and offshoring.
number of strategic players for outcomein Cape Town, South Africa.
Diversify and accelerate growth in based contracts.
In Germany, the market some of our secondary sectors, notably Expanded contract with Southern has consolidated following a period of low financial services and travel and leisure.
Water for end-to-end customer services growth and pricing pressure.
Clients are including the management of backseeking partnerships which are characterised office billing processes, correspondence- 2018 progress against less by FTE numbers and more by a range of handling, print and mail worth 30m strategic priorities: value-adding services: revenue generation, over five years.
complaints management, digital channels Investment in sales resource to drive Expanded contract with the Financial and data insight.
This increasingly complex origination and consultative selling, Services Compensation Scheme FSCS service offering provides opportunities for reflected in order book growth in 2018. to consolidate all its claims handling players with deeper outsourcing capabilities.
Pilots built for both omni-channel and services, including all inbound and Customer experience is getting wide new automation technologies, ahead of outbound customer contact worth 37m organisational attention from our clients, full production in 2019, underpinning over four years and nine months.
as they seek more sustainable models for our differentiated customer attracting and retaining customers and Extensions of our contracts with: npower, experience approach.
worth 41m over three years: Marks & Customer Experience Improvement Spencer, worth 70m over five years: methodology proposition embedded and BBC Audience Services for five years.
Financial performance and rolled out to first tranche of clients.
The transformation of our seven-year Adjusted revenue fell by 4.2%, due to customer services contract with mobilcomcontract scope changes and lower volume debitel one of Germanys largest mobile, in the UK retail and energy sectors and internet services and telecoms products Switzerland.
Adjusted operating profit providers is now progressing well.
decreased due to: the aforementioned During 2018, the investment of management decline in revenue: a weaker performance time has improved contract performance, in Europe, which was impacted by lower and we delivered all transformation profits in Switzerland, and a slightly higher milestones on time.
This included the loss on our contract with mobilcom-debitel: roll-out of a new multi-channel telephony increases in some cost items including platform and the launch of IOS and Android the adoption of General Data Protection mobile apps.
We continue to plan to reach Regulation: and the dropping-out of a break even on the mobilcom-debitel contract one-off contract modification benefit in by the end of 2020.
Excluded from 2018 adjusted profit is a charge of 61.7m from the impairment of acquired intangibles refer to note 3 of the consolidated financial statements.
