56 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Board members At 31 December 2018, the Board comprised seven Directors, made up Chairman of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and five independent NonThe Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness Executive Directors.
on all aspects of its role.
This includes setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic We have an experienced team in place to support our strategy and to issues.
The Chairman should also promote a culture of openness and debate, by meet the opportunities and challenges that the Group faces.
As the facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Group develops, we will regularly review the Board composition to The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, ensure it meets the needs of the business.
timely and clear information, and should ensure there is effective communication with shareholders.
At 31 December 2018, we had two female Directors and five male Directors.
By the end of January 2019, we had two female and six Sir Ian Powell | N male Directors, following the appointment of Patrick Butcher as Chief Chairman Financial Officer.
It is expected that diversity at both Board and senior Appointed to Board: September 2016 leadership level will continue to be a focus of the Board.
Independent at appointment: Yes Key skills and experience: Sir Ian was appointed NonExecutive Director in September 2016 and Chairman in January 2017.
He is a chartered accountant and, before Board diversity retiring in June 2016, was Chairman and Senior Partner of PwC UK for eight years, responsible for leadership and management of PwC UK.
He joined PwC in 1977, serving 25% 25% in various roles of increasing responsibility, including Head of Advisory, before being elected Chairman and Senior Partner.
Other current appointments: Chairman of Police Now: trustee of The Old Vic, and of Wellbeing of Women: member of the Development Committee at The National Gallery: board member at London First.
75% Executive Directors 75% The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day running of all aspects of the Groups business.
This responsibility is different from the Chairmans role in running the Male Board.
The role of Chief Executive Officer is separate from that of Chairman to ensure Male Female that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Female Gender split at 1 January 2019 Jon Lewis Chief Executive Officer Appointed: December 2017 Key skills and experience: Before joining Capita, Jon was Board Directors: length of tenure Chief Executive Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler, the multinational consultancy, engineering and project management business.
Prior to that, he had a 20-year career at Halliburton Company Inc in the United States, one of the worlds largest oil field service companies, where he held a number of senior roles, including Senior Vice-President and member of the Halliburton Executive Sir Ian Powell 2 years Committee.
Jon has a doctorate in geology from the University of Reading, ran a contract research organisation at Heriot-Watt University, and attended Jon Lewis 1 year the Executive Program at Stanford University Graduate School of Business.
1 Board responsibilities: Managing and developing Capitas 3 months Patrick Butcher business to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
External appointments: Board member of Equinor Gillian Sheldon 6 years Patrick Butcher Chief Financial Officer 2 years Matthew Lester Appointed: January 2019 Key skills and experience: Before joining Capita, Patrick was Group Chief Financial Officer at Go-Ahead Group.
Andrew Williams 4 years He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants South Africa and has more than 17 years experience as a finance director at board level in John Cresswell 3 years transport and infrastructure companies.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Network Rail, as well as holding finance director roles at English, Welsh and Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 1 year Scottish Railways now DB Schenker, and London Underground.
Patrick has extensive experience from working as a management consultant and auditor for 1 Joined the Board on 1 January 2019 Deloitte LLP.
He is a former member of the British Key Transport Police Authority.
Chairman CEO CFO Board responsibilities: Overall control and responsibility for all financial aspects of the businesss strategy.
Non-Executive Director Additional responsibilities: Property: Procurement: Commercial relationships and Supplier relationships.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 56 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 57 Board members At 31 December 2018, the Board comprised seven Directors, made up Chairman Non-Executive Directors Gillian Sheldon | ANR of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and five independent NonThe Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness The Non-Executive Directors should constructively challenge and help develop Senior Independent Director Executive Directors.
This includes setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that proposals on strategy.
They should scrutinise the performance of management in Appointed: September 2012 adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance.
They We have an experienced team in place to support our strategy and to issues.
The Chairman should also promote a culture of openness and debate, by should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial Independent: Yes meet the opportunities and challenges that the Group faces.
As the facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors in particular and controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are Key skills and experience: Gillian was appointed to the ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors Group develops, we will regularly review the Board composition to Board in September 2012, before being made Senior The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive ensure it meets the needs of the business.
She is a senior timely and clear information, and should ensure there is effective communication Directors, and in succession planning.
adviser in Credit Suisse UKs investment banking division with shareholders.
At 31 December 2018, we had two female Directors and five male where she has gained substantial experience of advising boards across a wide range of complex situations and Directors.
By the end of January 2019, we had two female and six transactions.
Prior to joining Credit Suisse, Gillian Sir Ian Powell | N male Directors, following the appointment of Patrick Butcher as Chief worked for seven years at NM Rothschild & Sons.
It is expected that diversity at both Board and senior Other current appointments: Senior adviser at Credit Appointed to Board: September 2016 leadership level will continue to be a focus of the Board.
Suisse: trustee of BBC Children in Need: member of Independent at appointment: Yes Corporate Advisory Board of the Royal Academy of Arts.
Key skills and experience: Sir Ian was appointed NonExecutive Director in September 2016 and Chairman in Matthew Lester | ANR John Cresswell | ANR January 2017.
He is a chartered accountant and, before Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director retiring in June 2016, was Chairman and Senior Partner of PwC UK for eight years, responsible for leadership and Appointed: March 2017 Appointed: November 2015 management of PwC UK.
He joined PwC in 1977, serving Independent: Yes Independent: Yes in various roles of increasing responsibility, including Key skills and experience: Matthew is a chartered Key skills and experience: John is Chief Executive Officer Head of Advisory, before being elected Chairman and accountant with over 20 years experience in senior of Bibby Line Group Limited.
He has substantial Senior Partner.
He was Group Chief Financial Officer of experience leading, growing and advising media and Other current appointments: Chairman of Police Now: Royal Mail plc from November 2010 to July 2017. broadcast organisations at CEO and executive director trustee of The Old Vic, and of Wellbeing of Women: Matthew has also served as Group Chief Financial levels, having worked in the technology, media and member of the Development Committee at The Officer for ICAP plc from May 2006 to November 2010. telecommunications sector for 25 years.
John is a National Gallery: board member at London First.
Before this, he held senior roles at Diageo plc and chartered accountant and attended the Advanced Kleinwort Benson.
Management Program at Harvard Business School.
Most recently, he served for four-and-a-half years as CEO of Other current appointments: Non-executive director of Executive Directors Arqiva.
Before that, he held a number of executive Man Group plc and Barclays plc.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day running of all aspects of the director roles on the board of ITV plc, and was formerly Groups business.
This responsibility is different from the Chairmans role in running the a director of Liverpool Football and Athletic Grounds plc Board.
The role of Chief Executive Officer is separate from that of Chairman to ensure and of Ambassador Theatre Group.
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Other current appointments: Chief Executive Officer of Bibby Line Group Limited.
Jon Lewis Chief Executive Officer Andrew Williams | ANR Baroness Neville-Rolfe DBE CMG | ANR Appointed: December 2017 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: Before joining Capita, Jon was Appointed: January 2015 Appointed: December 2017 Chief Executive Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler, the Independent: Yes Independent: Yes multinational consultancy, engineering and project Key skills and experience: Andrew has been Chief Key skills and experience: Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe management business.
Prior to that, he had a 20-year Executive of Halma plc, a leading specialist in safety, has been a member of the House of Lords since 2013, career at Halliburton Company Inc in the United States, health and environmental technologies since 2005.
He and served between 2014 and 2017 as a Government one of the worlds largest oil field service companies, started his career at Halma in 1994 as manufacturing minister in the Business and Culture departments, and as where he held a number of senior roles, including Senior director of a subsidiary company and went on to hold a Commercial Secretary to the Treasury.
She has a senior Vice-President and member of the Halliburton Executive wide range of senior management positions across the background in international retail, governance, legal and Committee.
Jon has a doctorate in geology from the group.
Andrew is a chartered engineer and a production regulatory issues, and communications.
She worked at University of Reading, ran a contract research engineering graduate of Birmingham University.
Tesco plc from 1997 to 2013, serving on the board from organisation at Heriot-Watt University, and attended He attended the Advanced Management Program at 2006.
Before joining Tesco, Lucy was a civil servant, the Executive Program at Stanford University Graduate Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania, serving in the Prime Ministers Policy Unit at Number 10 School of Business.
in 2004. between 1992 and 1994, and finally as Director of the Board responsibilities: Managing and developing Capitas Deregulation Unit.
Her non-executive directorships have Other current appointments: Chief Executive business to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
included ITV plc and Metro AG.
External appointments: Board member of Equinor Other current appointments: Chairman of Assured Food Standards: non-executive director of Secure Trust Bank Patrick Butcher plc, Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company, and Health Data Research UK: and governor of London Chief Financial Officer Business School.
Appointed: January 2019 Key skills and experience: Before joining Capita, Patrick was Group Chief Financial Officer at Go-Ahead Group.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Key to committees Accountants South Africa and has more than 17 years A Audit and Risk N Nomination R Remuneration ANR Committee chairmen experience as a finance director at board level in transport and infrastructure companies.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Network Rail, as well as holding finance director roles at English, Welsh and Scottish Railways now DB Schenker, and London Changes in the year Underground.
Patrick has extensive experience from working as a management consultant and auditor for Nick Greatorex Chris Sellers Deloitte LLP.
He is a former member of the British Chief Financial Officer Group Business Development Director Transport Police Authority.
Appointed to Board: March 2015 Appointed to Board: January 2017 Board responsibilities: Overall control and responsibility for all financial aspects of the businesss strategy.
Stepped down from Board: September 2018 Stepped down from Board: January 2018 Additional responsibilities: Property: Procurement: Commercial relationships and Supplier relationships.
