28 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued Government Services Capita is a trusted strategic partner to central government for the delivery and transformation of technology enabled business services.
It includes the operation of large, complex contracts that underpin the achievement of policy outcomes.
We are also a leading provider of support services such as revenues, benefits and back-office processing, IT, HR, and finance to local authorities, and education and health organisations.
Our strategy Our strategy is to focus on and leverage areas Adjusted revenue Order book where Capita has core expertise, invest in our transformation, technology and operational 745.5m 2,187.5m capabilities, package more of our services making them simpler to procure, improve 2017: 861.7m 2017: 2,660.6m the performance of challenging contracts, and implement structured client account Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin management.
We are also discontinuing smaller non-core activities such as facilities management and focusing on core areas of 35.2m 4.7% collections and disbursement, regulatory 2017: 78.7m 2017: 9.1% and planning services, and customer and digital services.
Since April, we have begun a programme to drive operational excellence Employees Key regions and put in place continuous improvement plans for all businesses.
UK India 8,700 1 Key contracts Personal Independence Payments PIP Administration of personal independence payments in two regions in England and Northern Ireland Primary Care Support England PCSE Key services and contracts Key markets Support services for GPs, pharmacies, Local Electronic Local Defence opticians and dental practices government Monitoring government Education Home Office Electronic Monitoring business process Primary Care Central and health Administration of tagging for offenders management Support England government Transport for London and transactional TfL Congestion Administration of Congestion Charge services and Ultra Low Emissions Zone Charging and DWP PIP ULEZ DCC Smart Metering Management, implementation and development DCC Smart STA of the national smart metering infrastructure Metering Gas Safe Register Birmingham City Council IT and digital services Staffordshire County Council Entrust Revenue by market Revenue by type Provisions of support services to schools 12% 7% London Borough of Barnet Customer services, finance, HR and property 25% 1% 9% strategic partnership 12% 1 Contracts over 1% of 2018 annual revenue.
47% 87% Central government Education Long-term contractual Local government Health Short-term contractual Justice & emergency services Transactional Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 29 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Develop existing core service m m % capabilities as repeatable product Adjusted revenue 745.5 861.7 13.5 propositions to drive growth.
Adjusted operating profit 35.2 78.7 55.3 Continuous programme of operational Adjusted operating margin 4.7% 9.1% excellence to improve service delivery.
Transformation of local government sector, but engagement by Capita with the In 2018 Capitas subsidiary, SmartDCC, business away from a traditional Cabinet Office has increased and improved went live with its GB-wide infrastructure outsourced contract model to as it embarked on a review of contracting.
for the rollout of second-generation smart business process as a service BPaaS After consultation across the sector, the meters.
Alongside this service, SmartDCC where clients pay for services as they Government has pledged to take on a greater is delivering key programmes of work for consume and are not tied into lengthy share of the risk on outsourced public sector the government and energy industry to contract commitments.
contracts, as part of a new set of rules drawn integrate first-generation smart meters into up in February 2019 to improve stability in its network and deliver next-day consumer 2018 progress against the sector.
switching in the energy retail market.
strategic priorities: Despite these challenges, Government We took firm action towards the end of 2018 Local government strategy reviewed departments are still actively engaging with over issues relating to our PCSE contract with and reset to address accelerated market the private sector and continue to renew NHS England.
This followed the discovery and contract decline.
existing contacts and award new work.
of delays in the issuing of cervical screening Commenced local government correspondence, which forms part of PCSE, transformation programme to change Financial performance to thousands of women.
We apologised to all service model.
the women affected by this administrative Adjusted revenue fell by 13.5%, due to the Investment in establishing delivery error and, following an investigation of re-shaping of our Defence Infrastructure excellence partnership relationships the managerial handling of the matter, Organisation DIO contract, which benefited with key government departments.
appropriate internal disciplinary action was from the recognition of previously deferred Focused resources on securing re-bids taken.
We have improved quality processes income in the prior year, and a decline in with targeted accounts.
and other operational service delivery our local government long-term strategic levels on the contract continue to be stable.
partnerships, reflecting the aforementioned We continue to expect the PCSE contract to market weakness.
Adjusted operating reach break even by the end of 2020. profit decreased due to the dropping-out Our market and of the 22m one-off benefit from DIO, as The local government market for large, previously disclosed, and weakness in local growth drivers multi-year deals, declined at an accelerated government, which were partially offset by rate during the year.
Southampton, Sheffield Capita is one of the largest providers to a reduction in loss on Primary Care Support and Birmingham City Councils have notified government in the UK with an estimated England PCSE.
Excluded from 2018 adjusted us of their intention to end contracts with market share of 13%.
The UK market for profit is a charge of 33.8m from the them ahead of their contracted end-dates.
central and local government services is impairment of goodwill refer to note 15 of Barnet Council has agreed to take a small valued at 6.7bn a year and estimated to the consolidated financial statements.
number of services back in-house.
be growing at approximately 3% per annum source: Nelson Hall.
However the local Capita is committed to the local government Sales and operational government market for large outsourced market and is working closely with all our contracts is declining with a significant dropcouncil partners to agree and manage a performance off in the number and size of opportunities smooth transfer of services back to local Despite the difficulties faced by the company coming to market and existing clients authority management.
in the early part of 2018, we remain a choosing to end contracts early and take strategic partner to the Cabinet Office.
This accelerated We won, renewed and extended a number decline is being driven by fiscal pressures, of contracts in 2018, including: the expectation that this will provide a more flexible cost and delivery model but also an Department for Educations Standards and ideological shift away from outsourcing by Testing Agency new contract to manage some council leaderships.
This structural the administration, processing and support decline has proved challenging for the for all primary school national curriculum division in the year, and a greater focus has assessment tests in England.
been put on redefining and simplifying our Transport for London implementation core capabilities alongside managing the and management of the Central London declining contracts.
Brexit is still affecting the volume of Renewed contracts with Westminster new policy initiatives by Government City Council to manage the authoritys departments, resulting in fewer new revenues and benefits services, and the opportunities for private sector contractors.
Health and Safety Executive to continue Following the collapse of Carillion, 2018 to manage the Gas Safe Register.
was a challenging year for the outsourcing
