Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 69 Committees Terms of reference Frequency of meetings andattendance The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration, and Audit During 2018, the Nomination Committee met four times, the and Risk committees standing committees were reviewed during the Remuneration Committee met 12 times and the Audit and Risk year.
The terms of reference are summarised below and, along with Committee met nine times.
A number of unscheduled committee the matters reserved for the Board, are displayed in full in the investor meetings took place during the year in connection with the rights centre at www.
issue and significant changes to senior management.
Some Directors were unable to attend every additional ad hoc meeting due to prior Terms of reference Brief description of responsibilities commitments.
Attendance of Directors at committee meetings is Nomination Reviews composition of the Board.
shown in the following table: Committee Recommends appointment of new Directors.
Considers succession plans for Board and senior Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination management positions.
Committee Committee Committee Oversees development of diverse pipeline for Number of meetings 9 12 4 succession.
1 Sir Ian Powell n a n a 4 Audit and Risk Reviews accounting policies and contents of financial Gillian Sheldon 8 12 4 Committee reports.
Considers adequacy, effectiveness and scope of Matthew Lester 9 8 4 external and internal audit programme.
Oversees relationship with external Auditor.
John Cresswell 7 12 4 Monitors risk profile and obtains assurance that Andrew Williams 9 11 4 principal risks have been properly identified and appropriately managed.
Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 8 11 4 Remuneration Sets policy for Board and senior management 1 Sir Ian Powell is not a member of the Audit and Risk, and Remuneration committees, Committee remuneration.
but was invited to, and attended, all meetings.
Agrees changes to senior executive incentive plans.
Consideration of meeting times has to include flexibility to hold Disclosure Comprises any two of the Chairman, Senior meetings outside this timetable and meetings of this nature tend to Committee Independent Director and the Executive Directors.
Responsible for the appropriate identification and management of inside information, including any Any Directors absence from meetings of the Audit and Risk, decision to delay public disclosure.
Remuneration or Nomination committees was previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Membership chairman of the relevant committee.
Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is shown below: Baroness Sir Ian Gillian Matthew John Andrew Lucy Powell Sheldon Lester Cresswell Williams Neville-Rolfe Nomination C X X X X X Audit and Risk X C X X X Remuneration X X C X X C Chairman 70 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Nomination Committee Diversity Members: Capitas equality and diversity policy, which includes the Board, is Sir Ian Powell based on the belief that success is a direct result of the experience and Gillian Sheldon quality of its people.
Inherent within this approach is an acceptance Matthew Lester and embracing of diversity in all its forms and an endorsement that the entire workforce, including the Board, be representative of the John Cresswell community in which Capita operates.
Key aims of the policy are to Andrew Williams ensure equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace and to Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe promote a culture where everyone is treated with respect and dignity.
Capita sees significant business benefit from the diversity of thought that comes from people with a wide range of backgrounds at all levels in the Group.
Only by encouraging this diversity and by fostering talent throughout the business can the Group expect to achieve further diversity in senior management.
Capita has a network of diversity champions across the businesses and the Groups training Capita sees significant business and mentoring initiatives actively support the fostering of talent at benefit from the diversity of thought all levels in the business across the Companys diverse workforce.
that comes from people with a wide The Board and senior management teams across Capita are fully committed to working to provide an environment where everyone has range of backgrounds at all levels in the opportunity to fulfil their potential.
The Group will continue to the Group.
appoint and promote people on merit and in line with the skills and attributes identified for each post.
Further information on diversity, Sir Ian Powell inclusion and wellbeing is on pages 3738 of the strategic report.
Chairman Nomination Committee Gender balance At 31 December 2018, female representation on the Board and The Committee met four times in 2018 and members attendance Executive Committee was 29% and 20% respectively.
From 1 January record is shown on page 69.
2019, following Patrick Butchers appointment to the Board, female The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee representation is 25% and 19% respectively.
At 31 December 2018, 1 and is available to assist the members of the Committee as required, female representation among senior management and their direct ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed reports was 28%.
1 The 2018 Code defines senior management as the Executive Committee and the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to its activities and deliberations.
It is authorised under its terms of reference to obtain the advice of independent search consultants.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year and can be found on Capitas website at www.
Responsibilities and activities Key responsibilities Activity in 2018 Identify and nominate appropriate candidates for appointment to the Succession planning for the Board generally and for other senior positions Board, having due regard to the provisions of the 2018 Code and, in below Board level.
particular, the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board Recruitment and appointment of new Chief Financial Officer: the external and the diversity of its composition.
search agency, Lygon Group, was used for this appointment and it has no Keep the structure and size of the Board and the leadership needs of the other connection with the Group.
organisation under review and ensure that plans are in place for orderly Consideration of Directors performance, length of service, interests and succession and appointment to the Board.
potential conflicts to ensure independence of NEDs and that all Directors Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors, could stand for re-election or election at the AGM.
the performance of Directors and all declarations of interest made Discussed and approved the resignations of Nick Greatorex and by Board members.
70 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 71 Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Diversity Committee membership and attendance Members: Members: Capitas equality and diversity policy, which includes the Board, is All members of the Committee are independent and I am considered Sir Ian Powell Matthew Lester based on the belief that success is a direct result of the experience and to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of Gillian Sheldon Gillian Sheldon quality of its people.
Inherent within this approach is an acceptance the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
Matthew Lester John Cresswell and embracing of diversity in all its forms and an endorsement that To encourage effective communication, in addition to the above the entire workforce, including the Board, be representative of the John Cresswell Andrew Williams members, the Board Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial community in which Capita operates.
Key aims of the policy are to Andrew Williams Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe Officer, Chief General Counsel and Director of Group Finance are ensure equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace and to invited to attend Committee meetings along with certain members of Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe promote a culture where everyone is treated with respect and dignity.
the senior management team, the Group Internal Audit Director, the Capita sees significant business benefit from the diversity of thought Chief Risk & Compliance Officer, and representatives from KPMG, the that comes from people with a wide range of backgrounds at all levels Groups external auditor.
Opportunity exists at the end of each in the Group.
Only by encouraging this diversity and by fostering Committee meeting for the representatives of the internal and talent throughout the business can the Group expect to achieve external audit teams to meet with the Committee in the absence of further diversity in senior management.
Capita has a network of management and both have access to the Committee should they diversity champions across the businesses and the Groups training wish to voice any concerns outside formal meetings.
Capita sees significant business A key area of focus will be to ensure and mentoring initiatives actively support the fostering of talent at benefit from the diversity of thought the Groups new operating model Committee performance was assessed as part of the externally all levels in the business across the Companys diverse workforce.
facilitated Board evaluation see page 55 for more information.
The that comes from people with a wide delivers a more efficient control and The Board and senior management teams across Capita are fully Board is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its committed to working to provide an environment where everyone has range of backgrounds at all levels in risk process.
members is such that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in the opportunity to fulfil their potential.
The Group will continue to an effective, informed and challenging manner and that, as a whole, the Group.
appoint and promote people on merit and in line with the skills and Matthew Lester the Committee has competence relevant to the sector in which the attributes identified for each post.
Further information on diversity, Chairman Sir Ian Powell Company operates.
inclusion and wellbeing is on pages 3738 of the strategic report.
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee Nomination Committee Gender balance and is available to assist the members of the Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed At 31 December 2018, female representation on the Board and This years independent evaluation of the Committee has concluded The Committee met four times in 2018 and members attendance accordingly.
Executive Committee was 29% and 20% respectively.
From 1 January that the Committee fulfils its role of supporting the Board in its review record is shown on page 69.
2019, following Patrick Butchers appointment to the Board, female of the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, monitoring the How the Committee operates The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee representation is 25% and 19% respectively.
At 31 December 2018, effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal 1 and is available to assist the members of the Committee as required, female representation among senior management and their direct controls, and overseeing the activities of the Groups internal audit The Committee has established an annual forward agenda to cover ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed reports was 28%.
function and its external auditor.
the key events in the financial reporting cycle, specific risk matters accordingly.
identified by the Committee and standing items that the Committee 1 The 2018 Code defines senior management as the Executive Committee and the Group In line with Capitas multi-year transformation, the Committee Company Secretary.
is required to consider in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board meetings have changed to go deeper into relevant issues.
However, The annual agenda is supported by agenda setting meetings held in in relation to its activities and deliberations.
It is authorised under more is required if the Committee is to become really effective.
Now advance of each Committee meeting, led by me and attended by its terms of reference to obtain the advice of independent search that the senior leadership team is complete and Capita is on a sounder senior management.
Their purpose is to identify key issues impacting consultants.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed footing, this is an achievable objective.
The other key area of focus for the business that may require consideration by the Committee.
and updated during the year and can be found on Capitas website the Committee will be to ensure the Groups new operating model at www.
Reports are received from the Group Risk & Compliance and Group delivers a more efficient control and risk process.
Internal Audit departments and new sales wins and their contract terms are reviewed from a risk and accounting perspective as Responsibilities and activities appropriate.
At each Committee meeting, the members may receive other reports and presentations covering key financial reporting, risk, Key responsibilities Activity in 2018 compliance and audit matters which are delivered by key senior Identify and nominate appropriate candidates for appointment to the Succession planning for the Board generally and for other senior positions personnel who attend by invitation to enable any clarification or Board, having due regard to the provisions of the 2018 Code and, in below Board level.
queries to be provided to the Committee.
I report to the Board the particular, the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board Recruitment and appointment of new Chief Financial Officer: the external key matters of discussion and make any significant recommendations and the diversity of its composition.
search agency, Lygon Group, was used for this appointment and it has no as necessary.
Keep the structure and size of the Board and the leadership needs of the other connection with the Group.
72 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued Role and responsibilities The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for carrying out the audit functions as required by DTR 7.1.
3R and assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities inrespect of the Company and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Financial reporting To review the reporting of financial and other information to the shareholders of the Company and monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including the application of key judgements in determining reported outcomes to ensure that they are fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk management, internal To review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal control and risk management and monitor the risk profile of controls and compliance the business.
Internal audit To approve the annual internal audit plan, review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review all significant recommendations and ensure they are addressed in a timely manner.
External audit To review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process, assess the independence of the external auditor and ensure appropriate policies and procedures are in place to protect such independence.
Cybersecurity To review and assess cybersecurity risk and governance including IT security for the Group and monitor risks within this area.
Effectiveness To report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference set out in full the role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found on the Companys website atwww.
These were reviewed and updated during the year.
The recognition of deferred income is a positive reflection of How the Committee discharged its roles and theGroups delivery against its future performance obligations.
Thisbusiness as usual activity is a core value, as it underpins the responsibilities in 2018 continued delivery of valuable services and solutions to the Groups The Committee met nine times during the year and attendance at customers.
The flip-side comes when the Groups transformation plan each meeting is shown on page 69.
Meetings are planned around the successfully secures new contract wins, as the early cash milestones Companysfinancial calendar.
Additional meetings were held during are likely to be significant, generating new deferred income and with the first part of the year to discuss the impact of the new strategic cash in excess of profits in the early years.
plan and the rights issue, and to consider certain additional financial reporting in respect of the rights issue.
Accordingly, the Committee is reviewing with the Board how free cash flow can be used to reflect the value creation for shareholders, Financial reporting recognising that outside the core contracting activities there are other commitments, and in particular the pension deficit repayment plan: Accounting judgements and significant accounting free cash flow will not always be reflected in the reported profits refer matters to note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Board will continue to review how the different measures are presented and As part of the process of monitoring the integrity of the financial theCommittee has requested management that carries out a information presented in the half-year results and the Annual Report fundamental review of how free cash flow is disclosed, so the reader and Accounts, the Committee reviewed the key accounting policies can obtain a clear understanding of the key value drivers.
and judgements adopted by management to ensure that they were appropriate.
The significant areas of judgement identified by the Fair, balanced and understandable Committee, in conjunction with management and the external At the Boards request, the Committee considered whether the halfauditor, together with a number of areas that the Committee deemed year results and the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced significant in the context of the financial statements are set out in the and understandable and whether the information provided was tables on pages 7375. sufficient for a reader of the statements to understand the Groups The Committee is assisting the Board to review the key metrics to be position and performance, business model and strategy.
The used to measure the value creation for Capitas shareholders, Committee reviewed both the narrative and financial sections of the recognising that historical measures such as profitability may not be reports to ensure they were consistent and gave a balanced view of as relevant as free cash flow, given the impact certain policies have on the performance of the business in the year and that appropriate the timing of recognition of profits and cash inflows.
The Chief weight was given to both positive and negative aspects.
The Financial Officers review sets out the key areas where current Committee also assessed whether important communications issued accounting requirements separate profit recognition from cash flows.
during the year were presented clearly.
During 2018, the Committee received presentations from the The Committee considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts Executives and divisional management on the performance of major enable readers to understand the Companys financial position contracts.
This included an analysis of the IFRS 15 reported profits and andprospects, as well as assess its going concern status and highlighted the particular challenges of measuring performance for a longer-term viability.
For certain projects the contract lifetime models benefit from the recognition of deferred income, for which there is no future cash inflow, as the associated cash has been received in prioryear transformation milestone receipts.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 73 Significant issues in relation to the financial statementsconsidered by the Audit and Risk Committee Revenue and profit recognition Matter considered Action Outcome There is significant risk on long-term contracts The Committee received regular updates on all The revenue recognition policy includes disclosure related to revenue recognised from variations or major contracts during the year and specifically of the significant judgements and estimates in scope changes, where significant judgement is reviewed the material judgements as part of the relation to its application and the Committee is required to be exercised by management.
There is a year-end close process.
satisfied that these have been properly disclosed.
risk that revenue may be recognised even though it is not probable that consideration will be collected, The Committee has also considered the recognition The Committee is satisfied that the disclosures which could be due to uncertainties over of onerous provisions, where appropriate, and the given within the accounts are sufficient to gain a contractual terms and ongoing negotiations lifetime profitability of contracts.
proper understanding of the methodology of with clients.
accounting for revenue across the Group, including the recognition of deferred income at the balance sheet date.
Contract fulfilment assets Matter considered Action Outcome The adoption of IFRS 15 has led to the recognition As part of the adoption of IFRS 15, the Committee The Committee is satisfied that appropriate has considered and challenged the significant of contract fulfilment assets CFAs.
Judgements judgements and estimates have been made in judgements and estimates involved in determining are involved in assessing whether the costs incurred determining the carrying value of CFAs and the the carrying value of CFAs.
on a contract, or an anticipated contract meet the extent of impairment of CFAs recognised in these capitalisation criteria as set out under the standard.
The Committee is As part of the review of all major contracts, the satisfied that the accounting policy note provides Committee has also considered the recoverability In addition, the amortisation of these assets sufficient clarity as to the new policy adopted.
During the year, the Committee discussed involves estimation of the expected life of the certain CFAs where their recoverability was in contract.
Management agreed not to capitalise these until the necessary actions to underpin the contracts profitability had taken place.
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and parent companys investment in subsidiaries Matter considered Action Outcome The Group carries significant asset balances in The Committee has reviewed the robustness of the The Committee is satisfied that the impairment of respect of goodwill and intangible assets related to impairment model and challenged the goodwill and intangibles recognised in these its acquisition activity.
In addition, the parent appropriateness of assumptions used to calculate statements is in line with expectations given the company carries a material balance of investment and determine the existence of impairment.
performance of certain areas of the Groups in subsidiaries on its financial statements.
The business in the year and the update on the trading impairment assessment requires the application of The Committee considered the events and outlook.
judgement concerning future prospects and circumstances that have led to the impairment forecasts.
charges since the publication of the interim results The Committee is also satisfied that the in August 2018.
In particular, the Committee assumptions, methodology and disclosure in note considered the continuing challenges both 15 to the consolidated financial statements are operationally and within the market served, the sufficient to give the reader an understanding of continued attrition in sales and the more significant the action taken and the sensitivities within the contract terminations experienced.
goodwill and intangible assets balance to any further impairment risk.
The impairment of goodwill and intangible assets at Group level indicates that there may also be Of particular importance to the Committee was impairment of investment in subsidiaries on the the inclusion of sufficient disclosures to set out the parent companys financial statements.
events and circumstances that have led to the Accordingly, the Committee has reviewed the impairment charges recorded in the year.
assumptions and calculation of impairment of these investments.
The Committee also considered that any impairment of investment in subsidiaries at the parent company level were appropriate and properly accounted for.
74 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued Items excluded from adjusted results Matter considered Action Outcome As stated in its accounting policies, Capita The Committee has reviewed the individual items The Committee concurs with managements view excluded from adjusted results, in particular the that the presentation of items excluded from separates its results between adjusted and reported items relating to pensions.
The Committee has adjusted results provides useful disclosure to aid to provide useful disclosure to aid the requested further information concerning the the understanding of the performance of the Group understanding of the performance of the Group.
origination of the items where they felt it was and agree that the items excluded meet with the The Committee needs to ensure a fair and balanced necessary to enable a conclusion to be drawn as to stated policy for recognition.
treatment of what is and is not included as an whether the chosen presentation achieved the adjusting item.
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the items that are separately presented, The Committee has considered the accounting and the Committee is satisfied that this provides policy by reference to guidance issued by the FRC sufficient information to inform a reader on each and the need to ensure any alternative category presented.
The Committee also notes that performance measures are presented with equal the approach is consistent with that used for the prominence to reported figures and on a consistent rights issue in 2018.
The Committee has asked the basis year-on-year.
new CFO to continue to review the approach in 2019.
The Committee considered the appropriate presentation to apply for the costs associated with the transformation plan which are presented as an adjustment to the reported results.
The plan is extensive and covers a number of Capita-wide initiatives to address the cost competitiveness of the businesses and to simplify and strengthen the Group.
Categories of expenditure include costs typically associated with major restructuring such as severance payments, but also include costs related to the offshoring of activities and the introduction of automation and digital solutions, a Group-wide property rationalisation and finance transformation project.
To support these activities, external professional fees are being incurred in addition to dedicated internal costs.
Where such costs are incremental and directly related to the transformation plan, the Committee has concluded that such costs should be included in the overall transformation costs that are separately presented.
In agreeing this presentation, the Committee was mindful of the guidance issued by the FRC in November 2017 in terms of multi-year major restructuring programmes.
This directs boards to define the costs to be presented separately, set borders to capture only relevant costs, and emphasises that disclosures to explain the costs must be transparent and of high quality.
The Committee considers that this guidance has been applied and note 3 to the consolidated financial statements provides details of the costs incurred in 2018.
The Committee will continue to review this policy in 2019 and beyond, as the transformation programme continues.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Matter considered Action Outcome There is judgement applied in the level of The Committee has reviewed the disclosure in the The Committee is satisfied with the fact patterns financial statements, in particular it has challenged underlying the provisions, with both the treatment provisioning across the Group.
This involves making management to justify provisioning levels where a and levels of provision being properly justified.
an assessment of the size, timing and probability of range of outcomes has been identified.
economic outflows due to the occurrence of a past event.
It is therefore important to understand the judgement being made as well as the estimate of any accompanying outflow of funds.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 75 Pensions Matter considered Action Outcome The measurement of the defined benefit liability in The Committee has reviewed the disclosure as The Committee is satisfied that the estimation of respect of defined benefit pension schemes presented in the accounts.
The Committee also the Groups pension liabilities and the narrative operated within the Group is a complex area, challenged the key assumptions and reviewed the that accompanies them gives the required level of relying on assumptions on inflation, mortality, sensitivity to changes in some of the key information for a reader of the accounts to corporate bond yields, expectations of returns on assumptions both on a stand-alone basis as well as determine the impact on the Group of its pension assets and a number of other key inputs.
There is in the context of defined benefit schemes across obligations.
a risk that any one of these could lead to other external benchmarks.
misstatement of the Groups liability in respect of pension obligations and the pension charge or movement recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
Going concern Matter considered Action Outcome Consideration of the going concern assumption is The going concern assertion has a significant The Committee is satisfied that page 65 includes the responsibility of the Board, and the Committee impact on the basis of preparation of the financial detailed disclosures concerning the going concern conducted an assessment as part of its support statements.
The Committee considered the assertion and key assumptions applied to inform role, given the inherent judgements required to be business plan projections that cover the two years the users of the assessment undertaken by the made in relation to the forecasts and definitions to 31 December 2020.
The Committee considered the assumptions behind the plausible but severe downside scenarios used for stress testing the Groups ability to meet its obligations as they fall due.
It also considered and challenged the mitigating actions proposed by management.
The Committee has challenged the key assumptions, as set out on page 65.
The Committee considered compliance with the key covenants included in the Groups committed facilities and private placement notes, including maximum ratios of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
The Committee considered the judgements made by management in calculating the adjusted EBITDA.
In particular, consideration was given to consistency of treatment with the prior year, including the exclusion of restructuring.
Applying the downside scenarios, the Committee concluded that, assuming no mitigating actions are taken, the available headroom is sufficient to operate within the 3.0 times adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.
The Committee considered the going concern assumption disclosures.
The Committee considered the requirements of the Code as it applies to the Groups viability statement including the three-year period of assessment which aligns with the Groups planning horizon and the processes supporting the viability statement.
After significant discussion and having considered the various stress testing scenarios that were presented as part of the viability assessment alongside the liquidity and debt positions of the business, the Committee determined that the three-year measurement period continued to be appropriate and that the viability statement as set out on page 52 should be recommended to the Board for approval.
76 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued The Chief Financial Officer monitors the level and nature of nonOther issues considered in relation to the audit fees accruing to the auditor, and specific assignments are financial statements discussed in advance with the auditor and flagged for the approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, as appropriate, and in accordance Materiality with the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by Materiality is important in determining the risk attached to any the auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, judgement.
The Committee considers the audit materiality set by the non-audit fees of this nature on a six-monthly basis and considers external auditor to ensure that the Audit and Risk Committee is implications for the objectivity and independence of the informed of individual items above a certain threshold that are most relationship with the auditor.
likely to have an impact on the financial statements.
The Audit and The auditor provides confirmations of its independence to the Audit Risk Committee reviews the external auditors report and the and Risk Committee every six months.
individual items that breach the materiality thresholds and assess their relative impact on the reported statements.
These are: income Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash the selection of any third-party auditor.
Such conflicts may arise flow, as well as the notes to the accounts.
across public or private sector clients and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the award process for The Committee requests further clarification from both the external external audit assignments.
auditor, the Chief Financial Officer and Director of Group Finance as to the nature of these items and also their relative importance in the Non-audit services and fees financial statements.
The Committee has established a policy on the provision of services by After having made such enquiries, the Audit and Risk Committee is the Groups auditor.
The policy describes the circumstances in which satisfied that materiality has been applied correctly in the accounts the auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the and that material items brought to its attention remain unadjusted Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and where its inclusion would not cause detriment to the overall reading considers and approves requests to use the Auditor for non-audit of the financial statements.
Any assignment where the expected fee is above 150,000 requires specific approval from the Committee or a member of the Disclosure of information to the auditor Committee.
The Group Company Secretary deals with day-to-day The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this administration of the policy, facilitating requests for approval by the Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is Committee.
All work with the external auditor outside of the audit has no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is to be pre-approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
The auditor unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to undertook various non-audit work in 2018 primarily related to their have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the rights issue, and audit information required for the audit and to establish that the the Interim Review.
Only the Audit and Risk Committee can authorise Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the scope and policy on non-audit fees.
Statutory auditor Non-audit fees this year are 23% 2017: 17% of all fees paid to the external auditor.
The Committee continued to receive updates The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups auditor throughout the year on approval of fees exceeding the threshold KPMG and it advises the Board on the appointment, independence stated above.
and objectivity of the auditor and on fees earned for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
The Committee discusses the nature, scope The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
During 2018, our and timing of the statutory audit with the auditor and, in making a external auditor, KPMG, announced a new policy with regard to the recommendation to the Board on auditor reappointment, performs provision of non-audit services to FTSE 350 audit clients and this is an annual, independent assessment of the auditors suitability and therefore applicable to non-audit services provided to Capita plc.
With effect from 1 January 2019, to avoid the perception of a conflict, The external auditor attends meetings of the Committee and provides KPMG will not perform, and will not approve requests from other updates on statutory reporting, non-audit fees and ongoing audit KPMG member firms to perform, non-audit services for FTSE 350 items.
listed audit clients other than services closely related to the audit.
Such services include those required by laws and regulations, or where The auditor has opportunity to raise concerns with the Chairman it is more practical for the external auditor to perform the service separately and in private session with the Committee.
Specifically, the e. g. reporting accountant role related to certain public company Committee asks the auditor if discussion of business performance in transactions.
KPMG will also continue to deliver the Interim Review the strategic report is consistent with the impression of Capita the which though technically classified as a non-audit service, relates auditors have gained.
Any material discrepancies are discussed refer closely to the audit.
to the independent auditors report.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 7 to the Auditor independence consolidated financial statements and a summary of non-audit fees is The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place shown in the table below.
safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence.
The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its relationship 2018 2017 m m with the auditor and the key safeguards are: Non-audit services The Chief Financial Officer monitors the independence of the auditor as part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness Taxation compliance services 0.1 and reports to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Services related to corporate finance transactions 0.1 Other assurance services 1.6 0.8 Total non-audit services 1.6 1.0 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 77 The Group has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit External auditor performance Services Order.
The Committee discussed the performance of KPMG during the period and was satisfied that the level of communication and reporting was A pre-selection process was carried out in preparation for the tender.
This also included a review of effectiveness Pre-qualification questionnaires were completed to identify those and quality of the audit process, audit planning and a post-audit firms with sufficient FTSE experience, sector expertise, and resources evaluation.
to provide a good cultural fit and which were not conflicted by virtue of substantial ongoing non-audit work.
Following detailed reviews and The Committee has ensured that the evaluation is integrated with preliminary meetings with potential firms, a shortlist was identified other aspects of their role related to ensuring the quality of the and firms asked to submit proposals against a detailed invitation financial statements obtaining evidence of the quality of the totender.
auditors judgements made throughout the audit, in identifying audit risks, determining materiality and planning their work accordingly, Following review and agreement on a final shortlist, partners of two as well as in assessing issues.
firms met with management and members of the Committee to outline further the skills and attributes expected of an external audit Financial Reporting Council: audit quality inspections team.
The selection criteria were developed into a scorecard for the Each year the Audit Quality Review team AQR of the FRC issues Audit Committee.
The categories were: a report that sets out the principal findings arising from the audit technical competency and experience quality inspections conducted in the previous calendar year across a sample of audits for all major audit firms.
The AQRs objective is high-quality tailored audit to monitor and promote improvements in the quality of auditing.
culture and teaming The reports highlight improvements required to promote audit innovation and technology.
quality, and areas of good practice.
The FRC publishes separate reports on the individual firms, including KPMG.
The final short-listed firms met with divisional and central services management, and the CEO and Committee Chairman met with key The Committee received a presentation from the KPMG lead audit partners for one-to-one discussions.
Following feedback from partner on the findings from the FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report management, each of the two firms presented to the Committee for KPMG and the proposed improvement plans put forward by KPMG Chairman, Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe, CFO, Director of Group in response, including details of the Audit Quality Transformation Finance, Head of Procurement and Director of Commercial & Financial Programme initiated by KPMG.
The Committee will closely monitor Accounting in December 2018, ahead of the Committee making its progress against these plans.
final decision for recommendation to the Board.
Following the AQR review of the Capita 2017 audit by KPMG detailed tender process, the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as external auditor.
During the year, the 2017 audit of Capita plc by KPMG was reviewed by the FRCs AQR.
External auditor re-appointment Certain matters for improvement were identified, including how A resolution to re-appoint KPMG as the external auditor of the KPMG evidenced all areas of the audit work performed, and the Company will be put forward at the forthcoming annual general conclusions reached, concerning the Companys impairment models.
If approved, KPMG will hold office from the conclusion of The AQR also highlighted good practice observations in relation to this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which KPMGs challenge over going concern and the approach adopted to accounts are laid before the Company, and their remuneration will be auditing Capitas long-term contracts.
The Audit and Risk Committee fixed by the Committee.
and KPMG have discussed the review findings and the identified Review of risk management and internal control improvement observations, and are satisfied with responses to be implemented by KPMG in the 2018 audit.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The risk Overall, the results of the review raised no issues which cast doubt on management framework and processes are set out on pages 4451. the fundamental quality of Capitas external audit and the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
Effectiveness and efficiency of risk management KPMG LLP have also discussed more generally the firms process for During the year, the Committee focused on key risk themes such as IT enhancing audit quality which includes internal quality reviews.
KPMG resilience, cyber-risk, management of client money, regulatory risk, LLP reported to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of their April information security and data management.
The Committee received 2018 report on these matters, with the Audit and Risk Committee reports on the following themes during the year: concluding that the findings were being addressed.
IT resilience and ensuring that customer data was kept safely and in External audit tender a controlled manner.
The Companys audit services were last subject to a tender process Financial Services regulated businesses, in particular, conduct in 2010, at which time KPMG Audit Plc, subsequently KPMG LLP, matters, the significance within the Group of the regulated replaced Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor.
The lead audit environment and co-operation with the Financial Conduct partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
The current lead audit partner Authority.
rotated on to the audit at the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
There are Primary Care Support England contract with NHS England where no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice some performance obligations had not been correctly identified in of auditor.
Under the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services Order and the As a consequence of the above areas, a review of the first line control EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation, the provision of audit framework has been instigated to ensure that lessons are learned services should be re-tendered every 10 years.
The complex nature of across the business and that appropriate controls are in place.
the Group requires that a knowledge base is built up year-on-year by This together with other matters reported to the Committee the incumbent to ensure that the external audit is conducted with a highlighted areas where there is a need for improvement in proper understanding of the Groups operations and the nature of the operational risk management and verification by internal audit.
This is an important factor in ensuring audit quality.
78 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Audit and Risk Committee continued However, the Committee concluded the risk management processes The Committee reviews managements response to the matters raised were materially adequate and there were no material weaknesses and ensures that any action is commensurate with the level of risk requiring specific disclosure.
identified, whether real or perceived.
Through the regular interaction between the Committee and Group Effectiveness and efficiency of financial controls Internal Audit Director, as well as the reports received from the As noted in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, Capita has function, the Committee is able to assess and satisfy itself that the embarked on a finance transformation which it expects will drive Groups provision of internal audit is effective.
At the request of the improved data quality, standardisation of activities performed by the Committee, a review of the function is currently under way as part of finance community and optimise the use of offshoring and shared Capitas wider transformation programme, in order to ensure the service centre delivery models.
These actions are designed to develop function provides assurance in an efficient as well as effective manner.
and deliver better processes and controls across the business, In particular, this will seek to leverage the control and risk selfimproving the financial risk framework employed by the business.
assessment process, referred to in the internal control and risk As part of this programme, in the year under review, an evaluation of management section of the strategic report, and focus on business financial controls was undertaken by the senior finance team to review unit key-control reviews.
This review is being undertaken by the Group the material financial controls that are in place and to identify areas Internal Audit Interim Director who joined Capita in October 2018 where these might only be partially effective or be inefficient in following the departure of the previous incumbent Head of Internal achievement of their purpose.
The results of the review completed by Audit during the year.
management was shared with KPMG to ensure the combined Anti-bribery and whistleblowing approach delivers value within the context of an external audit and the robustness of the financial statements.
Any material issue was Capita has a Group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy, which is in dealt with through mitigating activities.
compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
Procedures are reviewed periodically to ensure continued effective compliance in Group Learnings gained from the review will be considered by senior businesses around the world.
management within the construct of the wider finance transformation to ensure that the financial risk framework is improved and A Speak Up policy provides the framework to encourage and give the strengthened.
This is expected to deliver value to both the business workforce confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
and its stakeholders by improving the safeguarding of the Groups Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with designated financial position and additionally to our external auditor in relation to individuals and there is a dedicated email hotline to make it easy to the scoping, efficiency and planning of their audit.
These are investigated on behalf of the Board and reported to it, together with details of corrective action taken.
As part of its remit to ensure the robustness of the Groups internal Following the introduction of the 2018 Code, oversight of these control frameworks, the combination of the findings from the above arrangements is now a matter reserved for the Board.
exercise and the scoping of the programme will be monitored by the Committee.
The Committee concluded financial control processes were materially Matthew Lester adequate and there were no material weaknesses requiring specific Chairman disclosure.
Audit and Risk Committee 13 March 2019 Internal audit The Group Internal Audit function has an administrative reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer and an independent reporting line to me as Chairman of the Committee.
The function has in place a cosourcing arrangement with  LLP which adds expertise and breadth to the work of the in-house audit team.
During the year, a programme of internal audits was completed.
The scope of audit work generally focuses on assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of controls including management oversight and the degree of management risk awareness within the businesses that are subject to audit.
Throughout the year, the Group Internal Audit function provides written reports to the Group Audit and Risk Committee on the work carried out to date and the in-flight work to be completed.
A verbal update accompanies each report submitted to the Committee.
An annual report is provided each year summarising the key matters arising.
The representations given set out strengths and weaknesses identified during the work, together with any recommendations for remedial action or further review.
The Group Internal Audit team reported weaknesses in compliance with Group policies, particularly the Group Security Standards, controls over data management, system access and measures to safeguard both employees and the public.
In all cases, management has responded with appropriate action to mitigate the associated risks and Divisional Executive management have increased visibility on those issues of significance.
In addition, there has been focus by senior management to improve the control environment through the closure of previously overdue audit actions.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 79 Group Executive Risk Committee: Group Executive Risk Committee The Group Executive Risk Committee ERC assesses risk across all Number of Name of member Title meetings attended Capita businesses and reports to the Audit and Risk Committee.
It 1 Jon Lewis Chairman Chief Executive Officer 4 4 holds scheduled meetings on a quarterly basis.
Membership comprises 2 the CEO, CFO, Chief General Counsel, Group Commercial Director, Patrick Butcher Chief Financial Officer 0 0 Chief Risk & Compliance Officer and the six divisional Executive Mike Barnard Executive Officer, Officers.
The Group Internal Audit Director has a standing invitation, 4 4 Customer Management and the Non-Executive Directors have an open invitation, to attend all Joe Hemming Executive Officer, IT & Networks 3 4 meetings.
Following the resignation of Tim Brooke as independent Patrick Elliott Interim Executive Officer, committee chairman in August 2018, the role of chairman was 1 1 Government Services assumed by the CEO, Jon Lewis.
Erika Bannerman Executive Officer, 4 4 The ERCs role is to oversee and challenge the key risk and compliance People Solutions activities and issues in Capitas businesses by: Jim Vincent Executive Officer, 4 4 Specialist Services Reviewing the residual risk profile of Capita businesses, along with Chris Baker Executive Officer, Software 2 4 ensuring appropriate remedial actions are taken in line with Group Claire Chapman Chief General Counsel 4 4 objectives and risk appetites.
Reviewing and monitoring Group control function activity and Rob Tolfts Group Commercial Director 4 4 oversight plans.
Sue Williams Chief Risk & Compliance Officer 2 2 3 Tracking key regulatory changes affecting the Groups businesses.
Nick Greatorex Chief Financial Officer 2 2 4 Tracking key business developments, including bids, acquisitions and Tim Brooke Independent Chairman 2 2 offshoring developments.
5 Stephen Sharp Executive Officer, Receiving updates on regulatory capital issues, e. g. Internal Capital Government Services 3 3 Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
6 Peter Hepworth Executive Officer, Receiving updates on conduct risk issues.
Professional Services 1 1 7 Reviewing, and recommending for adoption, policies applicable to Chris Terry Group Risk & Compliance Director 2 2 the Groups businesses.
Identifying items for the attention of the Board or Group Audit and 1 Jon Lewis chaired two of the four meetings following Tim Brookes resignation.
2 Patrick Butcher was appointed as a Director of Capita plc, and joined the ERC, on1January 2019.
The scope of the Committee covers all Capita businesses, including 3 Nick Greatorex, former Chief Financial Officer, resigned from the Board and all committees on 30 September 2018. regulated activity in all jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
4 Tim Brooke, former independent Chairman, resigned as chairman of the ERC on31August 2018.
The Committee structure was reviewed during the year and, in 5 Stephen Sharp, former Executive Officer for Government Services, left Capita November 2018, the Group Technology & Security Risk Committee, on7November 2018.
6 Peter Hepworth, former Executive Officer for Professional Services, left Capita which focused on risk relating to information systems and security, on21May 2018. and IT infrastructure, was merged into the ERC to simplify risk 7 Chris Terry, former Group Risk & Compliance Director, left Capita on 27 August 2018. oversight.
However, in order to retain an element of independent Group Technology & Security Risk Committee: oversight of risk within Capitas regulated businesses, the former Financial Services Risk Committee will be reconstituted during 2019 to Number of take on this responsibility, with an independent chairman, as a Name of member Title meetings attended committee of the ERC.
Where appropriate, matters will be escalated Sue Williams to the ERC, which reports regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee, Chief Risk & Compliance Officer 1 1 Chairman and feedback from both committees will be provided to the Audit and Jon Lewis Chief Executive Officer 3 3 Risk Committee on a regular basis.
Mark Brown Chief Information Officer 2 3 During 2018, the ERC met four times and the Group Technology & Claire Chapman Chief General Counsel 1 2 Security Risk Committee met three times prior to being merged into 1 Nick Greatorex Chief Financial Officer 2 2 the ERC.
Membership and meeting attendance are set out in the 2 tables on this page.
The maximum number of meetings that could be Chris Terry Group Risk & Compliance Director 2 2 attended is shown in brackets.
1 Nick Greatorex, former Chief Financial Officer, resigned from the Board and all committees on 30 September 2018.
2 Chris Terry, former Group Risk & Compliance Director, left Capita on 27 August 2018.
