58 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Executive Committee Capitas Executive Committee is chaired by Jon Lewis, the 4.
Ismail Amla Companys Chief Executive Officer, and comprises 15 executive Chief Growth Officer officers and functional heads, who are entirely accountable for their particular division or function.
Ismail is responsible for supporting our transformation and organic growth plans, including the simplification of business development The divisions are aligned around our key growth markets: Software, and marketing, and driving change in the sales model.
People Solutions, Customer Management, Government Services and IT & Networks.
Alongside them sits our sixth division, Specialist 5.
All are aligned with Capitas overall strategy to simplify, strengthen and succeed.
Executive Officer, Software Chris leads this division which comprises a group of diverse 1.
Patrick Butcher businesses, creating digital and software solutions to make our clients businesses more efficient and cost-effective.
Chief Financial Officer Patrick, who joined Capita at the start of 2019, is responsible for 6.
Mike Barnard developing and implementing financial strategy and policy to support the sustainable growth of the business in a stable and Executive Officer, Customer Management predictable way.
Mike leads the division which provides market-leading contact centre, data, analytics and digital services.
Garry Dryburgh for support operations across multiple sectors.
Chief Transformation Officer Garry is responsible for developing, orchestrating and 7.
Katja Hall communicating our multi-year transformation programme.
Director of Corporate Affairs Katja is responsible for both internal and external communications, 3.
Jim Vincent including employee engagement, reputation strategy, media relations, and public affairs and policy.
Executive Officer, Specialist Services Jim leads the division which comprises a portfolio of unique businesses and commercial ventures, providing a diverse range of services to private and public sector clients.
1 6 4 5 3 2 7 58 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 59 Executive Committee Capitas Executive Committee is chaired by Jon Lewis, the 4.
Will Serle Companys Chief Executive Officer, and comprises 15 executive Chief Growth Officer Chief Corporate Development Officer Chief People Officer officers and functional heads, who are entirely accountable for their particular division or function.
Ismail is responsible for supporting our transformation and organic Rupert is responsible for our strategy development and execution, Will is responsible for the delivery of the HR and people strategy, growth plans, including the simplification of business development investor relations, and for mergers, acquisitions and divestments.
supporting and advising the organisation to evolve Capitas culture The divisions are aligned around our key growth markets: Software, and marketing, and driving change in the sales model.
and ways of working for all our employees.
People Solutions, Customer Management, Government Services and 9.
All are aligned with Capitas overall strategy to simplify, Chief Digital Officer strengthen and succeed.
Executive Officer, Software Executive Officer, IT & Networks Serge is responsible for developing our technology offering, driving Chris leads this division which comprises a group of diverse innovation and identifying how digital technologies will shape future Joe leads the division which provides market-leading IT outsourcing 1.
Patrick Butcher businesses, creating digital and software solutions to make our customer propositions and business models.
and network solutions to key clients, including within central and clients businesses more efficient and cost-effective.
local government, and in the education and healthcare sectors.
Jon Lewis Patrick, who joined Capita at the start of 2019, is responsible for 6.
Claire Chapman developing and implementing financial strategy and policy to Chief Executive Officer support the sustainable growth of the business in a stable and Executive Officer, Customer Management Chief General Counsel Jon is responsible for the overall management and development predictable way.
Mike leads the division which provides market-leading contact of Capita, to achieve the Companys strategic objectives and Claire is responsible for providing expert and strategic legal advice centre, data, analytics and digital services.
He is also responsible return the business to organic growth and sustainable free cash to the leadership team and the Board, with a focus on legal and 2.
flow in 2020. regulatory risk management, M&A, corporate projects, governance and contracts.
Erika Bannerman communicating our multi-year transformation programme.
Patrick Elliott Director of Corporate Affairs Executive Officer, People Solutions Interim Executive Officer, Government Services Katja is responsible for both internal and external communications, Erika leads the division and has responsibility for a portfolio of 3.
Jim Vincent including employee engagement, reputation strategy, media market-leading HR businesses across resourcing, learning services, Patrick leads the division which delivers technology-enabled relations, and public affairs and policy.
pensions administration and employee benefits.
business services for a broad spectrum of central government, Executive Officer, Specialist Services local authority, healthcare and other public sector clients.
Jim leads the division which comprises a portfolio of unique businesses and commercial ventures, providing a diverse range of services to private and public sector clients.
