30 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued IT & Networks Capita is one of the top 10 suppliers of IT Services and networks in the UK, focused on the midsized market.
Our IT services business acts as a technology enabler across all of Capitas services both internally and externally.
We provide end-to-end enterprise IT services and solutions focused around four key areas: digital transformation and innovation: core platforms cloud, hosted and on-premise and services: LAN and WAN connectivity solutions: and professional services advising and running IT solutions for our customers, testing, data consulting and cybersecurity.
We operate across the UK and from our operations in India, supporting clients at a Adjusted revenue Order book local and national level.
We have strategic partnerships with leading global IT vendors, 404.0m 380.4m have invested in our own portfolio of hosted platforms and operate our own UK-wide 2017: 415.4m 2017: 508.3m network and data centres Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin Our strategy Our strategy is to consolidate separately run 45.3m 11.2% entities into single IT & Networks businesses.
2017: 62.0m 2017: 14.9% We will: simplify the service catalogue and professionalise internal relationships: invest in our infrastructure, cloud and people: and build technical and sales capabilities to Employees Key regions improve customer experience.
UK Poland 3,400 In 2018, we launched the One ITS India programme, which is expected to realise significant cost savings over the next three years and includes the introduction of shared service centres with common processes and an increase in the use of offshoring.
Key services Key markets We also started a programme to invest in Managed Managed Local Financial our data centre network to simplify and networks IT support government services consolidate the existing environment and Data centre Testing Central Telecoms improve performance and consistency.
and cloud government Cybersecurity Aerospace infrastructure and consulting Defence Transport Education Revenue by market Revenue by type 13% 14% 48% 52% 73% Public sector Long-term contractual Private sector Short-term contractual Transactional Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 31 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Consolidation of multiple stand-alone m m % IT business into a single of integrated IT Adjusted revenue 404.0 415.4 2.7 & Networks business.
Adjusted operating profit 45.3 62.0 26.9 Upgrade and consolidation of data Adjusted operating margin 11.2% 14.9% centres to create an enhanced resilient and secure client infrastructure.
Invest in key client propositions across Our markets and Sales and operational networks, cloud, cyber and digital.
growth drivers performance Develop our people.
2018 was a year of fixing the basics across The IT infrastructure services market in the division, bringing together the separate the UK was estimated to be worth 28bn 2018 progress against operating businesses and stabilising them.
The overall market is expected strategic priorities: This One ITS programme is expected to to grow at 2% a year to 2021 source: Improved our conduct and realise significant cost savings over three TechMarketView.
However, this is highly control environment.
years and includes the introduction of shared polarised with high growth in cloud services service centres with common processes and Upgraded our legacy IT infrastructure and shrinking client device support.
an increase in the use of offshoring.
data centres and technical capabilities.
While the market is large and growing, it is also changing, providing both opportunities Achieved cost competitiveness targets.
Following an IT data centre outage in and threats to our current business.
2017, we have invested significantly in our Revamped our brand and client In IT services, the demand for customer existing data centre estate to simplify and value proposition.
value creation is driving digitisation and consolidate the environment and improve Improved our services, internal automation across the sector.
Large, fully performance and consistency.
Plans are relationships and customer experience.
managed legacy service contracts are being progressing for the phasing of legacy clients Simplified our organisation and our replaced by a pick and mix service model onto a new cloud infrastructure.
driving a need for a standardised offering We began work on simplifying our product with modular add-ons.
In Networks, the and service portfolio into six key product global shift to digital comes with enormous lines to position the division for improved data, security and network resource client retention and growth.
New product areas, such this review, we retired a number of legacy as SD-Wan, are opening up new market brands and brought all our services together opportunities for smaller players to compete under the Capita brand.
In November, a new with the large telcos.
divisional sales and marketing organisation was created, with additional resource Financial performance focused on product cross-sell and key Adjusted revenue fell by 2.7%, due to account management.
contract losses and lower volume in We began the implementation of the Managed IT Solutions and Enterprise Transport for London networks contract Services.
Adjusted operating profit decreased in March and successfully went live in late due to the dropping-out of a 9m one-off August.
Transformation of the network is supplier settlement in the prior year and ongoing and is due to be completed by the lower margins in Networking Solutions.
Contract wins and renewals in the year included the NHS Business Services Authority, Ministry of Defence, Kent Public Service Network, North Essex Partnership, Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, and Transport for London.
