32 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Divisional strategy and performance continued Specialist Services Our Specialist Services division comprises a portfolio of 16 businesses, delivering a range of services offerings through joint ventures, trading businesses and traditional ITenabled legacy BPO contracts.
The division includes those businesses which either are not within Capitas growth markets and or have little in common with our other divisions and or are at an early phase in their development but may be scaled up in the future.
These businesses are mostly standalone operations and are actively managed on a portfolio basis in order to maximise value and include Life Insurance, Insurance Services, Mortgage Services & Collections, Adjusted revenue Order book Optima, Travel & Events, Evolvi, Real Estate & Infrastructure, AXELOS, Fera, Managed 992.2m 1,241.4m Print, Hardware Reselling and Enforcement.
2017: 1,022.7m 2017: 1,844.8m Our strategy Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin Due to the varied nature of the activities in the division, each business has its own strategy uniquely tailored to their service 139.5m 14.1% offerings and the needs of their clients 2017: 140.6m 2017: 13.7% which has been defined through a value optimisation programme.
This programme, which involved a detailed Employees Key regions review of each business and its market UK India position, identified strategic and tactical 11,000 Dubai Poland opportunities to improve value generation from them.
We enjoy strong market positions in many of the verticals sectors, with strong brands and positive client perception of our services.
Key services and businesses Key markets This provides an ongoing opportunity to leverage Capitas wider client base Life & pensions Real estate and Financial Housing better, and to simplify and strengthen the administration infrastructure services Healthcare portfolio.
The focus across the portfolio is Insurance AXELOS Central Technology on operational excellence, cost-optimisation services and local Fera Utilities and leveraging Capita-wide infrastructure, government Mortgage Managed print clients and capabilities where possible.
Environment processing Education Translation & and transport Travel & events Defence interpreting Enforcement Hardware Legal services re-selling Revenue by market Revenue by type 19% 21% 20% 61% 79% Public sector Long-term contractual Private sector Short-term contractual Transactional Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 33 Divisional financial summary Strategic priorities 20182020: 2018 2017 change Manage as a portfolio and focus on m m % continuing value optimisation.
Adjusted revenue 992.2 1,022.7 3.0 Rationalise service lines, processes, Adjusted operating profit 139.5 140.6 0.8 properties and IT.
Adjusted operating margin 14.1% 13.7% Leverage cross-sell opportunities across portfolio and wider Capita.
Financial performance Sales and operational 2018 progress against Adjusted revenue decreased by 3%.
performance strategic priorities: This reflected good growth at AXELOS and During the year we disposed of a number modest growth at Fera and Enforcement, Restructured a number of businesses of businesses, notably Supplier Assessment which was outweighed by declines in Real and closed unprofitable service lines.
Services including Constructionline and Estate & Infrastructure, Insurance and Life Introduced tightly managed investment ParkingEye, delivering over 400m in insurance.
Revenue included a 38m release process and governance.
of deferred income on the early transfer of Delivered cost competitiveness targets The Life and Insurance Services business was Prudential UKs life insurance business to in 2018. impacted by the loss of the Prudential UK a new supplier in the second half of 2018.
Investment in a number of product and Marsh contracts.
We are focusing the Adjusted operating profit fell by 1%, as service enhancements.
business on supporting our customer services a result of increases in AXELOS and Real clients, where we are delivering high quality Estate, which benefited from restructuring services for open book products.
actions, which were offset by declines in Our markets and We have restructured our real estate and Managed Print and Mortgage Services.
growth drivers infrastructure business, invested in our Profits included a 9m one-off benefit on Specialist Services includes a range of IT infrastructure and client portals and the end of the general insurance contract businesses serving public and private clients enhanced our security and compliance with Marsh and a 6m one-off benefit across multiple vertical sectors, which in our regulated businesses.
on the end of the Prudential contract, are generally mature.
Our closed book which were partly offset by one-off write New sales wins in the year included: Life Insurance administration business is downs and provisions.
the award of a new courts enforcement in structural decline as books run off and contract by the Ministry of Justice: Travel some customers, with legacy IT systems, & Events contracts with the Department are switching to suppliers who can provide a for International Trade, and Rolls Royce: single digital platform for all their life books.
and a Customer Solutions win with Electric Ireland, providing collection and creditcontrol services.
