Board of Directors EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Ian has led Capco since inception, shaping strategy and driving performance.
He has over 30 years experience in global real estate investment, development, asset and corporate management, having been a senior Director of Hongkong Land and a managing executive of Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 SITUL JOBANPUTRA Chief Financial Officer Situl leads the Capco finance function, which includes reporting, treasury, corporate finance and tax.
Having joined Capco in 2014, he became Finance Director for Earls Court and Lillie Square in 2015 and was appointed as CFO in 2017.
Situl is an experienced corporate financier, having led Deutsche Banks UK real estate investment banking team before joining Capco.
GARY YARDLEY Managing Director & Chief Investment Officer Gary leads Capcos real estate investment and development activities.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with over 30 years experience in UK real estate.
He is a former CIO of Liberty International and former partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Committee 1 Nomination Committee 2 3 Remuneration Committee Committee Chair 50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS | Chairman External appointments HENRY STAUNTON Chairman of WH Smith PLC Henry was appointed as Chairman of the Board in 2018 and is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Henry is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive financial and commercial experience.
He is Chairman of WH Smith PLC and was previously a partner of Price Waterhouse for 12 years, Finance Director of Granada and ITV, Chairman of Phoenix Group Holdings and Ashtead 2 Group, and Vice Chairman of Legal & General.
| Independent Non-executive Director and Senior External appointments GERRY MURPHY Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director of Dixons Carphone plc, Gerry is a Chartered Accountant and a former Deloitte LLP partner with Non-executive member of direct industry experience in consumer business, retail and technology, the Department of Health media and telecommunications.
He was a member of the Deloitte Board for & Social Care Board a number of years and is a Director of Dixons Carphone plc and a member of the Department of Health & Social Care Board.
1 2 3 | Independent Non-executive Director External appointments CHARLOTTE BOYLE Non-executive Director of Charlotte is a former partner of The Zygos Partnership, an international Coca-Cola HBC AG and search and board advisory firm.
Prior to this, Charlotte worked for Board member and chair Goldman Sachs International and Egon Zehnder International.
Charlotte of the finance committee is a Non-executive Director of Coca-Cola HBC AG and serves as a Board of Alfanar member and chair of the finance committee of Alfanar, the venture philanthropy organisation.
1 2 3 | Non-executive Director External appointments GRAEME GORDON Director of Creative Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty International for 14 years Investments Limited and before joining the Board of Capco in 2010.
He is the son of Sir Donald Mymarket Limited Gordon, the founder of Liberty International.
| Independent Non-executive Director External appointments ANTHONY STEAINS CEO of Comprador Limited Anthony is the CEO of Comprador Limited, a strategic corporate finance and Chair of the FilmAid advisory firm based in Hong Kong, and has over 20 years of corporate Asia Board finance experience.
A Chartered Accountant, prior to founding Comprador, Anthony was a Senior Managing Director and Head of Blackstone Advisory Partners in Asia and held senior positions in Asia at Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank and ING Barings.
2 | Independent Non-executive Director External appointments ANDREW STRANG Member of the Investment Andrew is a Chartered Surveyor and was Managing Director of and Governance Committees Threadneedle Property Investments Limited for 17 years until 2008.
He of AEW UK and member of was Executive Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment Management the Norges Bank Real Estate until 2011.
Management Real Estate Advisory Board 1 2 3 Further information on Directors skills and experience can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 61 to 63. www.
