Directors and Officers Geoff Cooper Karen Hubbard Kris Lee Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Geoff joined the Board and became Karen was appointed to the Board Kris was appointed to the Board of Chairman of the Group in April 2014. of Card Factory plc with effect from Card Factory plc with effect from Geoff has over 20 years experience 22 February 2016.
Kris has more than of serving on boards of UK public Group, Karen served as Chief Operating 20 years finance experience and, companies, in particular as Chief Officer of B&M European Value Retail immediately before joining the Group, Executive of Travis Perkins plc from S. A. the fast growing multi-price value Kris served as Finance Director of the March 2005 until December 2013 and as retailer, where she was responsible Edinburgh Woollen Mill Group EWM.
a Director and Non-Executive Chairman for retail operations, distribution In addition to being responsible for of Dunelm Group plc between 2004 and logistics, supply chain, IT, HR, EWMs finance team, Kris oversaw and 2015.
Geoff is also a Director and marketing and store development.
EWMs significant M&A programme Non-Executive Chairman of AO World From 2009 to 2014, she held a number including the acquisitions of the plc, Bourne Leisure and an adviser to of senior roles at ASDA, latterly Edinburgh Woollen Mill, Peacocks, Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He Executive Director Property, Format Austin Reed, Country Casuals, Viyella is a chartered management accountant Development and Multi-Channel.
Prior to EWM, Kris and had a career in management Karen previously spent 14 years in BPs held senior finance roles in a number consultancy before joining Gateway retail operations, initially in Australia of businesses including Brighthouse, subsequently Somerfield plc as before moving to the UK in 2004 where Phones4U, JD Sports, all:sports, BMI Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994, he she became UK Convenience Retail Healthcare, 20:20 Mobile Logistics, became Finance Director of UniChem Director, responsible for BPs own Barclays and 3663 Distribution.
Kris is plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc retail estate across all formats including a Chartered Accountant and holds a which later became part of Alliance Connect Simply Food, Motorway, BA Hons in Accountancy Studies.
Boots plc, where he was appointed Express and the franchise channel.
External appointments: External appointments: None.
Non-Executive Chairman of AO World plc and Bourne Leisure Holdings Ltd. Adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
34 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Octavia Morley David Stead Paul McCrudden Senior Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Director David Stead joined the Board as an Paul joined the Board as an Octavia joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
He is an experienced in December 2014.
Paul is currently Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Octavia has extensive Director of companies in the UK retail Global Head of Live Marketing at experience of serving on boards of sector.
David was Chief Financial Twitter.
Prior to this, Paul was a board Officer of Dunelm Group plc from director at advertising agency AMV UK public companies.
She served on the board of John Menzies plc as a September 2003 until his retirement BBDO, and spent his earlier career at from that role at the end of 2015.
Imagination and Accenture specialising Non-Executive Director between 2006 and 2015.
Octavia was previously David is also the Senior Independent in innovation and new technologies.
the Chief Executive of Oka Direct Non-Executive Director of Joules Group Paul also served as Chairman of the plc and a Non-Executive Director of board of trustees at Hoipolloi, an Limited and the Managing Director of Crew Clothing Co. Limited.
She also Majestic Wine plc.
Prior to his role arts organisation funded by the Arts at Dunelm, David served as Finance Council England.
served as Chief Executive Officer, and latterly as Chairman of LighterLife UK Director for Boots The Chemists and Limited until December 2009, has held Boots Healthcare International between External appointments: 1991 and 2003.
David is a chartered positions as Commercial Director of Global Head of Live Marketing Woolworths plc between 2003 and accountant, having spent the early at Twitter.
part of his career with KPMG.
2005 and as Managing Director of e-commerce at Asda Stores Limited and Buying and Merchandising Director External appointments: at Laura Ashley plc.
Non-Executive Director of Majestic Wine plc, Senior Independent NonExternal appointments: Executive Director of Joules Group plc and Honorary Member of Council, Independent Non-Executive Director of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Chairman University of Birmingham.
of The Spicers-Officeteam Group Limited and Non-Executive Director of Ascensos Limited.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Directors and Officers Roger Whiteside Shiv Sibal Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and General Counsel Roger joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director Shiv joined the Company as General in December 2017.
Roger is currently Counsel and Company Secretary in Chief Executive of Greggs plc, the UKs May 2014.
Shiv is an experienced leading bakery food-on-the-go retailer.
corporate finance lawyer with more Prior to this, Roger served as Chief than 15 years experience in the legal Executive of both the Thresher Group sector.
Prior to joining the Company, off-licence chain and Punch Taverns as Shiv was a corporate partner with well as having been a founding member international law firm Womble Bond and Joint Managing Director of Ocado.
Dickinson LLP focused on supporting These roles followed a 20 year career public companies with IPOs, equity with Marks and Spencer where he fundraisings, mergers and acquisitions, ultimately led its food business.
governance and their continuing regulatory obligations.
Prior to joining, External appointments: Shiv also spent more than eight years Chief Executive Officer of Greggs plc working for international law firm and member of the Womens Business Pinsent Masons LLP in their Council.
Board committees Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee David Stead Chairman Octavia Morley Chairman Geoff Cooper Chairman Octavia Morley Geoff Cooper Octavia Morley Paul McCrudden David Stead David Stead Roger Whiteside Paul McCrudden Paul McCrudden Roger Whiteside 36 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
