Strategic Report Governance Financials Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited A final dividend of 6.4 pence per share FY17: 6.3 pence is financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2018. proposed in respect of the period ended 31 January 2018 to add to an interim dividend of 2.9 pence per share FY17: 2.8 pence INTRODUCTION paid on 15 December 2017.
The final dividend will, subject to This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes shareholders approval at the AGM on 31 May 2018, be paid on additional information required to be disclosed under the 8 June 2018 to shareholders on the register on 4 May 2018.
Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code or the UK Corporate SPECIAL DIVIDEND Governance Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the A special dividend of 15 pence per share was paid to DTRs and the Listing Rules the Listing Rules of the Financial shareholders on 15 December 2017.
POST YEAR END EVENTS Some of the information we are required to include in the There have been no significant post year end events.
Directors Report is included in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts and is referred to below.
Where reference SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDERS AND RESTRICTIONS ON is made to these other sections, they are incorporated into this TRANSFERS OF SHARES report by reference.
The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary shares of 1p each.
INCORPORATION, LISTING AND STRUCTURE The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Further details of the Companys share capital, including Wales on 17 April 2014 under the Companies Act with changes in the issued share capital in the year under review, registration number 9002747. are set out in note 19 to the financial statements which form part of this report on page 97.
There have been no further The entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company is changes in the Companys share capital between the end of admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the financial year under review and the date of the approval of the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London this report.
Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities.
The liability of the members of the Company is limited.
Details of awards outstanding under share based incentive schemes are given in note 25 to the financial statements The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its which form part of this report on pages 102 and 103.
Details of registered office is at Century House, Brunel Road, Wakefield 41 the share based incentive schemes in place are provided in Industrial Estate, Wakefield, West Yorkshire WF2 0XG.
The the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 and 57. telephone number of the Companys registered office is 44 1924 839150.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary share capital of the Company are contained within the Companys STRATEGIC REPORT Articles of Association Articles which were adopted on The Strategic Report, which was approved by the Board on 17 April 2014.
9April 2018 and is set out on pages 1 to 33, contains a fair review of the Groups business, a description of the principal risks and The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of uncertainties facing the Group and an indication of the likely ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual future developments in the business of the Group.
restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and regulations The review is intended to be a balanced and comprehensive such as insider trading and marketing requirements relating analysis of the development and performance of the Groups to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules business during the financial year and the position of the Groups whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company business at the end of that year.
The report includes, to the require approval of the Company in order to deal in the extent necessary for an understanding of the development, Companys shares.
performance or position of the Groups business, analysis using financial key performance indicators.
SHAREHOLDER AND VOTING RIGHTS All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend The Strategic Report also includes the main trends and factors and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general likely to affect the future development, performance and meeting every member present in person shall have one vote position of the Groups business.
It also includes information and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy about environmental matters, the Groups employees and social shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
shareholder holds ordinary shares carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report, which also contains details of the principal SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS activities of the Group during the year.
When taken together, the At 9 April 2018 the following had notified the Company of a Strategic Report and this Directors Report constitute the disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Companys ordinary shares: Number of Percentage RESULTS AND ORDINARY DIVIDENDS ordinary of share The consolidated profit for the Group for the year after taxation Shareholder shares capital was 58.3m FY17: 65.7m.
The results are discussed in greater Invesco Perpetual Asset Management Ltd 91,971,149 26.93% detail in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 20 to 23.
Artemis Investment Management LLP 34,051,657 9.97% Majedie Asset Management 25,959,884 7.60% Woodford Investment Management 25,586,257 7.49% Stuart Middleton 18,035,477 5.28% Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Directors Report continued CHANGE OF CONTROL TREASURY AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND There are no agreements between the Company and its FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Directors or employees providing for additional compensation The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, management is explained in the Principal Risks and redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a Uncertainties section on page 26.
In that section, beginning takeoverbid.
on page 24, there is also a list of the principal risks and uncertainties that affect or are likely to affect the Group.
The The only significant agreement to which the Company is a financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial control of the Company following a takeover bid, and the Officers Review on pages 20 to 23. effect thereof, is the Companys committed bank facility dated 17 April 2014 as amended and restated on 24 June TAX 2015 which contains a provision such that, in the event of a The Group pays corporation tax on its operations in the change of control the facility may be cancelled and all United Kingdom and does not operate in any tax havens, or outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest, will use any tax avoidance schemes.
A copy of the Groups tax become repayable on the date falling 30 days following strategy is available on Card Factorys investor website written notice being given by the lenders that the facility has www.
GOING CONCERN TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Taking into account current and anticipated trading The only material transactions with related parties during the performance, current and anticipated levels of borrowings, year were those transactions detailed in note 28 on page 103 and the availability of borrowing facilities and exposures to of the Annual Report and Accounts.
and management of the financial risks detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27, the Board is of the opinion DIRECTORS that, at the time of approval of these financial statements, The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate out on pages 34 to 36.
Details of changes to the Board during resources to continue in operational existence for the period the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on outlined in the viability statement below.
Details of how Directors are appointed and financial statements continue to be prepared on a going or removed are set out in the Corporate Governance Report concern basis.
LONGER-TERM VIABILITY POWERS OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares and the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the three years to 31 January 2021.
This assessment has been Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 and 45. made taking into account the Groups current position, plans and principal risks and uncertainties described in the Strategic DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE Report on pages 1 to 27.
Information relating to Directors indemnities and the Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company has The Directors have determined that the three years to purchased is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on 31January 2021 is an appropriate period over which to page 45. provide its viability statement.
Three years closely corresponds to the average remaining lease term of the EMPLOYEES Groups store portfolio and is the timeframe used by the Information relating to employees of the Group is set out Board in its strategic planning process.
in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 31.
In making this statement, the Board has carried out a robust Share incentive schemes in which employees participate assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on those that would threaten its business model, future pages 56 and 57 and in note 25 to the financial statements performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board has reviewed the Groups detailed three year HEALTH AND SAFETY strategic plan, a process it undertakes on an annual basis, An overview of health and safety is provided in the Corporate including an assessment of key operational and financial Social Responsibility Report on pages 30 and 31. assumptions.
The output of this plan is also used to analyse forecast debt and covenant headroom and includes a review GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS of sensitivities to business as usual risks.
These risks include The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 30 sets the consideration of factors which could impact forecast sales out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the levels for example, like-for-like sales, new store openings and Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report online growth rates and factors which could impact Regulations 2013. profitability for example, foreign exchange rates, wage costs, property costs and the success of various business efficiency POLITICAL DONATIONS initiatives.
The results take into account the availability and The Group has not made any political donations in the past likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that could be taken and does not intend to make any in the future.
to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
The scenarios modelled represent more extreme circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
70 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARDGroup might face, the Directors consider that this stressLOOKING STATEMENTS testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is The reports and financial statements contained in this Annual reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking involved.
statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, and businesses of Card Factory plc.
These The Board also considers cash flow forecasts, the availability statements and forecasts involve risk, uncertainty and of financing and the Groups plans to return surplus cash to assumptions because they relate to events and depend upon shareholders.
The Group remains highly cash generative and circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a has significant headroom on all of the covenants in its number of factors that could cause actual results or committed banking facility which expires in 2020.
In assessing developments to differ materially from those expressed or potential returns of surplus cash to shareholders, the Board implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
will take into account, inter alia, expected cash generation, the Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be actual and projected leverage ratio and the ongoing capital construed as a profitforecast.
Such returns of surplus cash are therefore discretionary and within the control of the Board.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they 11.00am on 31 May 2018 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
A formal notice of meeting, Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this liabilities as they fall due in the period to 31 January 2021.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND APPOINTMENT RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN OF AUDITORS RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit This statement is set out on page 72. information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL REPORT have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any The Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Report relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys were approved by the Board on 9 April 2018.
Auditor is aware of that information.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Risk Shiv Sibal Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, Company Secretary independence and objectivity of the existing external Auditor, KPMG LLP, for the year ended 31 January 2018 and concluded 9 April 2018 that the external Auditor was in all respects effective.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
Accordingly, and in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM of theCompany.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71
