Our Four Pillar Strategy Like-for-like New store sales growth roll out The Group has a strong track record of consistently delivering The Group intends to expand its store portfolio organically like-for-like sales growth and growing average basket value from its existing store estate to up to 1,200 stores in total, ABV.
The Boards strategy is to continue this track record, including potential new stores in the Republic of Ireland.
The whilst maintaining the core value proposition, by: Board intends to continue this future roll out at a similar rate to the Groups historical rate of organic store openings of c 50 continuing to improve overall product quality and range net new stores per annum.
for both card and complementary non-card products developed by its established design team: further developing the Groups in-store merchandising and pricing architecture to increase the number of items sold per basket and or to offer customers more choice, particularly for those occasions when they wish to spend more, whilst maintaining the quality and value of our offering: and leveraging our electronic point of sale EPOS system to provide more granular sales data for analysis of customer purchasing trends, thereby assisting in increasing items sold per basket, for example through identifying and stocking complementary non-card products that are more likely to be purchased alongside greeting cards.
The Group also expects to benefit from ongoing revenue growth as recent store openings continue to grow their share of the local market in line with the typical maturity curve of four to six years.
At the point of maturity, annual sales in individual stores are typically 30% to 40% higher than in the first year post-opening.
The Group defines Card Factory store Iike-for-Iike LFL sales as Target locations for all of these new stores have already been the year-on-year growth in sales for Card Factory stores which identified and these locations, together with other potential have been opened for a full year, calculated on a calendar week locations, are kept under regular review.
The reported LFL sales figure excludes sales: new opportunities are expected to have, on average, lower sales potential than the average of the Groups existing store made via the Card Factory website, www.
co. uk: locations, primarily due to the new stores typically being made via the separately branded personalised card and in lower footfall locations than the average of the Groups gift website, www.
co. uk: existing stores, the Directors believe these new stores will nevertheless enhance EBITDA and will continue the trend of by Printcraft, the Groups printing division, to external delivering a strong return on capital.
third-party customers: and from stores closed for all or part of the relevant period or Management undertakes a formalised appraisal process for the prior year comparable period.
new location opportunities which includes an assessment of potential store sales and profitability, the results of which Card Factory stores are included in the reported LFL figures are stored in a database of new store opportunities which is for each week of trading completed after having been open continually updated and refreshed.
for a full 52 weeks, as compared to the same relevant week in the previous period.
Total Card Factory LFLs are reported including the impact of the Card Factory website.
The Group defines Getting Personal LFL sales as the yearon-year growth in sales for the Getting Personal website, calculated on a calendar week basis.
12 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Business Online efficiencies development Card Factory has consistently delivered best-in-class margins.
The Groups online operations currently comprise The Board will continue to pursue business efficiency initiatives Card Factorys transactional website and Getting Personal to further improve the business and its competitive position.
The Group aims to maintain and, where possible, enhance its Significant investment was made during the year in creating gross margins through continuous improvement in the supply a dedicated Card Factory online team to support its future chain process.
In particular, the Group intends to continue development andgrowth.
We continue to enhance, test, to diversify its range of suppliers to reduce reliance on key evolve and evaluate our online platform, proposition and suppliers and further develop direct sourcing relationships product offering and have, during the year, introduced a with manufacturers.
much wider selection of personalised cards and gifts as well as enhancing the selection of non-personalised products Similarly, the Group aims to protect and, where possible, that customers would usually have to go to one of our stores enhance operating margins through the control of operating to purchase.
costs, including: the management of overall employee costs: negotiation of improved rental terms upon the expiry and Sales of personalised gifts represent the vast majority of the renewal of existing leases: and tight control over other costs revenue generated from Getting Personals website and expenses.
As the Group continues to grow Iike-for-like sales and proceed with its new store roll out, the business will continue to leverage the growing economies of scale when negotiating contracts with suppliers and manufacturers.
In anticipation of planned long-term growth, the Group has, over a number of years, invested heavily in its infrastructure, including: an EPOS system and contactless payment across all of our stores that will both improve the speed of service and customer experience and provide more granular sales data that will help us develop our proposition and grow sales: expansion of Printcraft as part of a 10-year capital expenditure plan following its relocation to larger The Directors believe there are opportunities to further grow the Groups sales in this complementary segment through premises: further product development eg changes to existing the relocation of Getting Personals personalised gift product ranges and new product ranges, enhancements to production facility to Printcraft: and the website including the mobile offering and improved investment in the central distribution centre and Group marketing.
While the personalised online segment of the greeting The Group will continue to leverage the benefits of these cards market remains small, according to OC&C significant investments over the medium-term as well as representing just 5.9% of the total single cards market, by continually evaluating the benefit of further investment to value, and 2.2%, by volume, in 2016, the Directors believe it support the long-term strategy of the business.
The CEOs provides an opportunity for growth.
review on pages 18 and 19 outlines some of the additional investments the Group is currently considering.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to capture a greater share of this growing segment of themarket.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
