TheBODsconsider that, within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs viability is byreference to the consolidated viability of Carnival Corporation & plc.
Accordingly, this Viability Statement presents the combined group and the BODshave assessed the prospects of Carnival Corporation & plc over a longer period than the twelve months required bythe going concern basis of preparation.
Whilst the BODs have noreason to believe Carnival Corporation & plc will not be viable over a longer period, the period over which the BODsconsidered viability is three years.
Theprincipal reasons whythis period wasselected are as follows: It aligns with managements strategic planning cycle Management plans its guest sourcing and ship itinerary strategies over a twoto three year horizon TheCarnival Corporation & plc three-year financial plan considers the following factors, among others: Net revenue yields Net cruise costs per ALBDexcluding fuel Fuel price Foreign exchange rates Operating income Operating income per ALBD Earnings per share Liquidity Return oninvested capital Certain of these items were subject to sensitivity analysis both individually and in unison.
Where appropriate, this analysis wascarried out to evaluate the potential impact of Carnival Corporation & plcs principal risks actually occurring.
In addition, the three-year financial plan makes certain assumptions about newship orders, improvements and disposals that are likely to occur during the financial plan period, and considers the committed export credit financings that are associated with the ship deliveries.
Furthermore, based onCarnival Corporation & plcs historical results, projections and financial condition, the BODsbelieve that the companys future operating cash flows and liquidity will be sufficient to fund all of its expected capital improvements, newship growth capital, debt maturities and dividend payments.
This belief is supported bythe following factors, among others: Carnival Corporation & plc had liquidity of $14.6billion at November 30,2018consisting of $710million of cash and cash equivalents, which excludes $271million of cash used for current operations, $2.3billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities, net of our outstanding commercial paper borrowing, and $11.5billion under our committed future financings, which are comprised of ship export credit facilities Carnival Corporation & plcs primary financial goals include maintaining a strong balance sheet and strong investment grade credit ratings Carnival Corporation & plc is the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries Based onthe above, the BODsrisk appetite and howthese risks are managed or mitigated, the BODshave a reasonable expectation that Carnival Corporation & plc will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
Repurchase Authorizations and Stock Swap Programs.
I. Repurchase Program Under a share repurchase program effective 2004, weare authorized to repurchase Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares the Repurchase Program.
Effective April 10and August 27,2018, the company approved modifications of the general authorization under the Repurchase Program, which replenished the remaining authorized repurchases at the time of the approvals to $1.0billion.
TheRepurchase Program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued byour Boards of Directors at any time.
Stock Swap Programs In addition to the Repurchase Program, wehave programs that allow us to obtain an economic benefit when either Carnival Corporation common stock is trading at a premium to the price of Carnival plc ordinary shares or Carnival plc ordinary shares are trading at a premium to Carnival Corporation common stock the Stock Swap Programs.
For example: In the event Carnival Corporation common stock trades at a premium to Carnival plc ordinary shares, wemay elect to sell shares of Carnival Corporation common stock, at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers transactions and repurchase an equivalent number of Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UKmarket.
In the event Carnival plc ordinary shares trade at a premium to Carnival Corporation common stock, we may elect to sell ordinary shares of Carnival plc, at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers transactions and repurchase an equivalent number of shares of Carnival Corporation common stock in the U. S. market.
Under the Stock SwapPrograms effective 2008, the Boards of Directors have made the following authorizations: In January 2017, to sell upto 22.0million of Carnival Corporation common stock in the U. S. market and repurchase upto 22.0million of Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UKmarket.
Anysales of Carnival Corporation shares and Carnival plc ordinary shares have been or will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
During the three months ended November 30,2018, noCarnival Corporation common stock or Carnival plc ordinary shares were sold or repurchased under the Stock SwapPrograms.
Carnival plc Shareholder Approvals Carnival plc ordinary share repurchases under both the Repurchase Program and the Stock SwapPrograms require annual shareholder approval.
Theexisting shareholder approval is limited to a maximum of 20.9million ordinary shares and is valid until the earlier of the conclusion of the Carnival plc 2019annual general meeting or October 11,2019.
This Strategic Report has been approved bythe Board.
Byorder of the Board Micky Arison Chairman of the Board of Directors January 28,2019 56
