Cruise Brands Carnival Cruise Line is The Worlds Most Popular Cruise Line and provides multi-generational family entertainment at exceptional value to its guests.
It is a place where guests can be their most playful selves and choose their fun, a choice that anyone can make at any time which makes that moment better for everyone.
Carnival Cruise Line ships are designed to inspire the experience of bringing people together, with limitless opportunities for guests to create their ownfun.
Carnival Cruise Line ships sail from 17convenient U. S. home ports, more than any other line.
Its cruise ships are within a 5-hour drive for more than half of all Americans and provide opportunities to experience various destinations and itineraries.
Carnival Cruise Line annually carries more than 5million guests, including 800,000children.
Carnival Cruise Line continues to enhance its existing fleet byadding a variety of exciting newfeatures.
It is in the final stages of an extensive fleet enhancement program delivering branded accommodations, dining and entertainment options across its fleet and providing guests a high standard of excellence across any ship, any home port and any itinerary.
Carnival Cruise Line also completed the fleet wide roll out of its innovative and highly-rated mobile HubApp.
Thepopular HubAppfacilitates onboard revenue purchases, like shore excursions and specialty dining, and communications to enable guests to maximize their fun.
Theapp also includes an innovative Chat feature in addition to fast access to everything happening onboard.
Carnival Cruise Line operates three to 24-day voyages and offers year-round sailings from the United States to the Caribbean and the Mexican Riviera and from Australia to the South Pacific and NewZealand, as well as seasonal sailings to Alaska, Hawaii, Canada and Bermuda.
In addition, Carnival Cruise Line continues to increase the number of cruises to Cuba.
Princess Cruises is a leading premium cruise line and each moment onPrincess Cruises is one of wonderful discovery where guests can relax and explore.
Thechoices are endless - from invigorating activities to more relaxing pursuits - and enable guests to share special moments with family and friends while enjoying unique travel experiences that create inspiring memories.
Princess Cruises SkyPrincess will debut in October 2019.
The3,660-passenger capacity ship will feature expansive SkySuites and signature Princess Cruises elements from the relaxing Sanctuary to the expansive three-deck Piazza-style Atrium.
EnchantedPrincess, a sister ship ofSkyPrincess, will debut in 2020followed by another ship in 2021.
Additionally, Princess Cruises has two4,310-passenger capacity ships slated to be delivered in 2023and 2025, which will be their first ships to be powered byLNG.
  andAcademy , StephenSchwartz, 10 includeTheSecretSilk, BorntoDance, andMagictoDo.
Princess Cruises offers guests the opportunity to cover the globe with sailings to six continents that call at more than 380destinations including Princess Cays, an exclusive island destination in TheBahamas, offering recently enhanced excursions, retail, bar and marina areas.
Princess Cruises offers award-winning itineraries ranging in length from three to 111days, including world cruises.
Princess Cruises sails to nearly every corner of the world, including Alaska, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean, Europe, Mexico, the Panama Canal, South America and more.
Holland America Line has enhanced its onboard products, including locally cultivated items in culinary and retail designed to elevate the guests experience of the region they are cruising.
Explorations Central is the immersive onboard programming designed to make guests destination experience even more engaging and meaningful.
Holland America Lines revamped retail experience features custom personalized jewelry bySophia Fiori, newart collections byemerging artists featuring unique destination centric pieces, a newFujifilm photo digital creative studio space and an expanded logo-wear collection.
Holland America Line offers cruises to more than 400ports, including Half Moon Cay, a private island destination in TheBahamas, providing guests with unparalleled natural beauty of a protected preserve, miles of pristine, white-sand beach, where guests can stay busy all day or simply luxuriate in tranquil solitude.
From shorter getaways to 113-day itineraries, the cruises visit all seven continents.
Holland America Line offers popular sailings to the Caribbean, Alaska, Mexico, Canada & NewEngland, Bermuda, Europe and the Panama Canal as well as more exotic sailings including Antarctica explorations, South America circumnavigations, Cuba cruises, Australia & NewZealand and Asia voyages, and four annual Grand Voyages.
P&OCruises Australia invites guests to embark ona journey to a place thats unlike any other.
Each day onboard a P&OCruises Australia cruise packs a newadventure with something for the youngand youngat heart.
Kick off the shoes for a game of barefoot bowls or get the heart racing onthe adrenaline-fueled zip line on top deck.
When the sun goes downthe fun continues across a wide range of entertainment venues featuring live 11 Strategic Report music, top local comedy acts and original stage shows, along with bustling bars and themed parties onboard every cruise.
With P&OCruises Australia youcan choose to doeverything, or nothing at all.
P&OCruises Australia s Pacific Adventure will enter service in October 2020.
The2,640-passenger capacity ship will offer something for everyone, including an expanded range of cabin options such as 5-passenger family cabins, a private onboard beach club and an adults only Oasis pool area spread across multiple decks.
Pacific Adventure will sail year-round from Sydneyto the South Pacific and offer a diverse mix of shorter duration cruises from three to four days and cruises of 13days and longer.
Thelonger duration itineraries will feature an enrichment program with talks and seminars from notable Australian guest presenters and a gala Masquerade Ball.
Pacific Adventure will also offer a selection of Main Event cruises taking guests to iconic festivals and events such as the Melbourne Cuphorse race.
P&OCruises Australia offers cruises generally ranging from three to 18days to destinations around Australia, NewZealand, Asia and the South Pacific.
SeabournOvation, sister ship to the , entered service in May 2018, and is the second ship designed for the line byhospitality design icon, Adam D. Tihany.
Theship features all oceanfront suites with private verandas and an al fresco dining venue, Earth & Ocean at the Patio.
Seabourn has twonewultraluxury expedition ships set to join the fleet in 2021and 2022.
Onboard crew will include expedition teams comprised of experienced wilderness experts, scientists and historians whowill provide insights into the history, ecology and culture of the destinations visited.
Seabourn ships sail to all seven continents and take guests to places beyond the reach of larger ships.
Seabourn itineraries generally range from seven days to over 100days, including the Transatlantic crossing.
TheWorld of Seabourn includes destinations such as Alaska: Antarctica & Patagonia: Arabia, Africa & India: Asia: Australia & South Pacific: Canada & NewEngland: the Caribbean: Cuba: the Mediterranean: Northern Europe: Pacific Coastal: Panama Canal and South America.
Costa delivers Italys finest at sea primarily serving guests from Continental Europe and Asia.
Costa brings a modern Italian lifestyle to its ships and provides guests with a true European experience that embodies a uniquely 12 Italian passion for life through warm hospitality, entertainment and gastronomy that makes Costa different from any other cruise experience.
CostaSmeralda, is scheduled to enter the fleet in October 2019and her sister ship in 2021.
Bothships will be fueled byLNG.
Theship will feature the triple-deck Colosseo, located in the heart of the ship, showcasing a new story daily onthe bright screens and onthe dome from dawnto sunset.
Anonboard museum, Costa Design Museum, will be curated byMatteo Vercelloni and will be dedicated to the excellence of Italian design and feature many of the names that have contributed to the ships construction and success.
CostaVenezia will join the fleet in February 2019and is the first Costa ship built for the Chinese market.
Costa Venezia brings to life the passions of Venetian and Italian culture through such spectacles as the Carnival of Venice and the citys famed gondolas.
Guests will also experience the delights of fine Italian dining, luxury Italian shopping and world-class Italian entertainment while enjoying home comforts such as a range of Chinese cuisines and Chinese-style karaoke bars.
Asister ship also designed for the Chinese market will be delivered in late 2020.
Costas guests can experience a variety of activities making vacations onboard its ships even more exclusive and unforgettable, including dining options created byMichelin-starred chef BrunoBarbieri, as well as enriched entertainment including TheVoice of the Sea and Peppa Pig-branded kids games and educational activities.
Enhancing the authentic Italian experience for the Chinese market, Costa kicked-off its official partnership with Juventus Football Clubonboard all ships deployed in China, offering in-depth interactions for fans and activities for guests of all ages.
Partnerships have also been developed with Tencent WeChat and Alibaba providing local payment methods and other onboard functionalities to Chinese guests.
Costa sails worldwide with cruises generally ranging from four to 20days and also offers longer exotic sailings upto 30days as well as world tours.
Costa offers a wide range of sailings in the Mediterranean, Northern Europe, the Caribbean, Dubai and UAE, the Indian Ocean, South America, the Transatlantic and the Far East.
AIDAis the leading and most recognized brand in the German cruise market.
Its guests enjoy the German inspired active, premium modern lifestyle cruise experience.
AIDAprovides a cruising wellness holiday in modern comfort where guests feel at home and enjoy consistently excellent service accompanied bythe AIDA smile.
AIDAnovawill enter the fleet in December 2018and her sister ships will join the fleet in 2021and 2023.
This newgeneration of ship combines innovative design with state-of-the-art technology.
Some of the many successful features onAIDAprimasuch as the Brewerie, Theatrium, Beach Cluband the Four Elements activity area have been further enhanced.
AIDAnovas Theatrium features a 360-degree stage with 11LEDwalls, seven different laser showsand the LEDTube.
AIDAis the first cruise company to launch a newgeneration of ships fueled entirely byLNG.
Guests onboard the entire AIDAfleet experienced Oktoberfest onthe high seas as part of the AIDAOktoberfest Special 2018.
TheAIDASelection, a program where guests can experience exploratory cruises to newregions and exclusive destinations, will welcomeAIDAmira, previously CostaneoRiviera, in 2019with a newitinerary to South Africa and Namibia.
Toenhance the digital experience and guest satisfaction, AIDAprovides mobile apps to attend to the guests before, during and after the cruise.
Theapps include a microblogging service, inspired with user generated content and provide onboard program and restaurant information as well as a chat feature for onboard messaging.
AIDAvisits over 230ports with cruises generally ranging from three to 23days and also offers a world cruise departing from Hamburg.
AIDAsails to many exciting destinations, including North America, Northern Europe, Western Europe, Southeast Asia, the Canary Islands, the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, Baltic Sea, RedSea, Black Sea and Dubai.
13 Strategic Report P&OCruises UK is Britains favorite cruise line, welcoming guests to experience the goodlife and enjoy a blend of discovery, relaxation and exceptional service catered towards British tastes.
P&OCruises UK s fleet of premium ships combine genuine service, a sense of occasion and attention to detail, ensuring guests have the holiday of a lifetime, every time.
In 2020, P&OCruises UK will launchIona, a newLNG-powered, 5,200-passenger capacity ship, which will be the largest ship built to serve the UKmarket.
Iona will feature enhancements to already successful brand signature venues from the existing fleet, as well as features newly developed forIona.
These include a breathtaking three deck atrium in the heart of the ship as well as SkyDome, an exclusively designed glass dome byaward-winning British engineer Eckersley OCallaghan.
This will be a worlds first at sea and offer a unique space for both relaxing in all weathers and providing entertainment, featuring aerial performers and a wealth of live acts.
P&OCruises UK will introduce a sister ship in 2022.
P&OCruises UK continues to enhance its entertainment line-up, launching Astonishing onAzura, Britannia andVentura.
This revolutionary guest-interactive magic and illusion showwasproduced through a partnership with  Stephen Mulhern, performer Jonathan Wilkes and the mind-blowing trickery of master illusionist GuyBarrett.
P&OCruises UK also continued partnering with some of the UKsmost popular and recognized entertainers and primetime TVshows.
P&OCruises UK visits over 200destinations worldwide and offers itineraries generally ranging from twoto 17 days and also an annual world cruise.
P&OCruises UK sails to Australia & NewZealand, Baltic, the British Isles, Canada, Spain, Portugal & the Canary Islands, the Caribbean, Central America, Dubai & the Arabian Gulf, the Far East & Asia, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean, Scandinavia, South America, the South Pacific, the United States and Western Europe.
Over its 178year history, the iconic Cunard fleet has perfected the timeless art of luxury ocean travel.
While onboard, Cunard guests experience unique signature moments, from Cunards white gloved afternoon tea service to spectacular gala evening balls to its renowned Insights Speaker program.
Guest expectations are exceeded through Cunards exemplary White Star Service, a legacy from the White Star Line.
From the moment a guest steps onboard, every detail of their cruise is curated to ensure an enjoyable, memorable and luxurious experience.
Cunards flagship, QueenMary2, is unique in being todays only true ocean liner, regularly carrying guests on the most iconic of voyages, the Transatlantic Crossing between NewYorkand the United Kingdom.
Anew3,000-passenger capacity ship is to joinQueenMary2, QueenVictoria andQueenElizabeth as the fourth member of the fleet in 2022.
Shewill be the first newCunard ship in 12years, making it the first time since 2000 that Cunard will have four ships in simultaneous service.
Sharing the iconic livery and red funnel, guests will experience todays distinct Cunard signatures as well as newbrand experiences currently in design.
Cunard offers unparalleled experiences enhanced byrecent ship refits.
NewtoQueenVictoria are Britannia Club accommodation and dining, where guests can enjoy a spacious balcony stateroom and their owndedicated intimate restaurant.
QueenMary2s transformation included a redesign of her Grand Lobbyand newfurnishings throughout.
Enhancements toQueenElizabeth ranged from a redesigned retail operation to refreshed outdoor spaces and a newspa and beauty salon concept.
ACunard cruise is the ultimate luxury wayto travel, with cruises generally ranging from seven to 14days as well as a series of longer voyages, including Roundthe World Voyages.
Cunard sails to destinations in Africa, Australia & South Pacific, Canada, the Caribbean, the Atlantic Islands, the British Isles, the Canary Islands, Central America, the Far East, the Mediterranean, Northern Europe, South America, the Indian Ocean, the Middle East, Scandinavia & Iceland and the United States.
