These intangible assets enable us to distinguish our cruise products and services, ships and programs from those of our competitors.
We ownor license the trademarks for the trade names of our cruise brands, each of which webelieve is a widely-recognized brand in the cruise industry, as well as our ship names and a wide variety of cruise products and services.
Competition We compete with land-based vacation alternatives throughout the world, such as hotels, resorts including all-inclusive resorts, theme parks, organized tours, casinos, vacation ownership properties, and other internetbased alternative lodging sites.
Based onthe most recent G. P. Wild Cruise Industry Statistical Review, we, along with our principal cruise competitors Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings, Ltd. and MSCCruises, carry approximately 84% of all global cruise guests.
D. Website Access to Carnival Corporation & plc SEC Reports We use our websites as channels of distribution of company information.
OurForm 10-K, joint Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q, joint Current Reports onForm 8-K, joint Proxy Statement related to our annual shareholders meeting, Section 16filings and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge at www.
com and onthe SECswebsite at www.
govas soon as reasonably practicable after wehave electronically filed or furnished these reports with the SEC.
In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information whenyouenroll your email address byvisiting the Investor Services section of our websites.
Thecontent of any website referred to in this document is not incorporated byreference into this document.
E. Industry and Market Data This document includes market share and industry data and forecasts that weobtained from industry publications, third-party surveys and internal company surveys.
Industry publications, including those from CLIA, G. P. Wild, and surveys and forecasts, including those from ASTA, generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable.
CLIAis a non-profit marketing and training organization formed in 1975to promote cruising and offer support and training for the travel agent community in North America.
CLIAparticipates in the regulatory and policy development process while supporting measures that foster a safe, secure and healthy cruise ship environment.
In addition, CLIAfacilitates strategic relationships between cruise industry suppliers and organizations, cruise lines, ports and shipyards and provides a forum for interaction with governmental agencies.
All CLIAinformation, obtained from the CLIA website www.
org, relates to the CLIAmember cruise lines.
In 2018, CLIArepresents over 50cruise brands that operate more than 95% of cruise industry capacity.
G. PWild is an authoritative source of cruise industry statistics and publishes a number of reports and industry reviews.
All G. P. Wild information is obtained from their annual Cruise Industry Statistical Review.
All other references to third party information are publicly available at nominal or nocost.
We use the most currently available industry and market data to support statements as to our market positions.
Although webelieve that the industry publications and third-party sources are reliable, wehave not independently verified any of the data.
Similarly, while webelieve our internal estimates with respect to our industry are reliable, they have not been verified byany independent sources.
While weare not aware of any misstatements regarding any industry data presented herein, our estimates, in particular as they relate to market share and our general expectations, involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based onvarious factors, including those discussed under Item 4.
Risk Management and or Mitigation of Principal Risks within this Strategic Report.
