recruitment practices, training, repatriation, food, recreational facilities, health and welfare, hours of workand rest, accommodations, wages and entitlements.
TheInternational Convention onStandards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, as amended, establishes additional minimum standards relating to training, including security training, certification and watchkeeping for our seafarers.
Consumer Financial Responsibility Regulations In most major countries where wesource our guests, weare required to establish financial responsibility, such as obtaining a guarantee from financially stable financial institutions and insurance companies, to satisfy liability in cases of our non-performance of obligations to our guests.
Theamount of financial responsibility varies by jurisdiction based onthe amount mandated bythe applicable local regulatory agencies or association.
In Australia and most of Europe, wemay be obligated to honor our guests cruise payments made bythem to their travel agents and tour operators regardless of whether wereceive these payments.
Taxation Asummary of our principal taxes and exemptions in the jurisdictions where our significant operations are located is as follows: a. U. S. Income Tax We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating cruise ships in international transportation.
We also ownand operate, among other businesses, the U. S. hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours through U. S. corporations.
OurNorth American cruise ship businesses and certain ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business within the U. S. Depending onits itinerary, any particular ship may generate income from sources within the U. S. We believe that our U. S. source income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the extent derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Ourdomestic U. S. operations, principally the hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, are subject to federal and state income taxation in the U. S. 1.
Application of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code In general, under Section 883of the Internal Revenue Code, certain non-U.
S. corporations such as our North American cruise ship businesses are not subject to U. S. federal income tax or branch profits tax onU.
S. source income derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Applicable U. S. Treasury regulations provide in general that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883if, in relevant part, i the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the U. S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which an exemption is being claimed under Section 883 an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and ii the foreign corporation meets a defined publicly-traded corporation stock ownership test the publicly-traded test.
Subsidiaries of foreign corporations that are organized in an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and meet the publicly-traded test also benefit from Section 883.
We believe that Panama is an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and that Carnival Corporation currently satisfies the publicly-traded test under the regulations.
Accordingly, substantially all of Carnival Corporations income is exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Regulations under Section 883list certain activities that the Internal Revenue Service IRS does not consider to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, therefore, the income attributable to such activities, to the extent such income is U. S. source, does not qualify for the Section 883exemption.
Amongthe activities identified as not incidental are income from the sale of air transportation, transfers, shore excursions and preand post-cruise land packages to the extent earned from sources within the U. S. 28
