Port Destinations and Private Islands In select geographies around the world weoperate a portfolio of leading port destinations and private islands to growdemand and create relative scarcity.
This enables us to offer exceptional guest experiences bycreating a wide variety of high quality destinations around the world that are uniquely tailored to our guests preferences.
In addition, to secure preferential berth access to third party ports, wecoordinate across brands to negotiate berthing agreements and to secure preferred access through shared agreements and commitments.
General Ourships are regulated bynumerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships.
These requirements change regularly, sometimes ona daily basis, depending onthe itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.
If weviolate or fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, treaties and other requirements wecould be fined or otherwise sanctioned byregulators.
We are committed to complying with, or exceeding, all relevant maritime requirements.
Theprimary regulatory bodies that establish maritime laws and requirements applicable to our ships include: The International Maritime Organization IMO : All of our ships, and the maritime industry as a whole, are subject to the maritime safety, security and environmental regulations established bythe IMO, a specialized agency of the United Nations.
TheIMOs principal sets of requirements are mandated through its International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea SOLAS and its International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships MARPOL.
Flag States: Ourships are registered, or flagged, in TheBahamas, Bermuda, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Panama and the UK, which are also referred to as Flag States.
Ourships are regulated by these Flag States through international conventions that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships.
Representatives of each Flag State conduct periodic inspections, surveys and audits to verify compliance with these requirements.
Ship classification societies: Class certification is one of the necessary documents required for our cruise ships to be flagged in a specific country, obtain liability insurance and legally operate as passenger cruise ships.
Ourships are subject to periodic class surveys, including dry-dock inspections, byship classification societies to verify that our ships have been maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification societies and that recommended repairs have been satisfactorily completed.
Dry-dock frequency is a statutory requirement mandated bySOLAS.
Ourships dry-dock once or twice every five years, depending onthe age of the ship.
National, regional, state and local authorities: We are subject to the decrees, directives, regulations and requirements of the European Union EU, the U. S. U. S. states and hundreds of other international ports that our ships visit every year.
Port regulatory authorities Port State Control : Ourships are also subject to inspection bythe port regulatory authorities, which are also referred to as Port State Control, in the various countries that they visit.
Suchinspections include verification of compliance with the maritime safety, security, environmental, customs, immigration, health and labor requirements applicable to each port, as well as with regional, national and international requirements.
Many countries have joined together to form regional port regulatory authorities.
Asmembers of the Cruise Line International Association CLIA, wehelped to develop and have implemented policies that are intended to enhance shipboard safety throughout the cruise industry.
In some cases this calls for implementing best practices, which are in excess of existing legal requirements.
Further details onthese and other policies can be found onwww.
