Shareholders and Other Stakeholders We value the relationships wehave with our shareholders and other stakeholders, including travel agents, trade associations, communities, regulatory bodies, media, creditors, insurers, shipbuilders, governments and suppliers.
We believe that engaging stakeholders in a mutually beneficial manner is critical to our long-term success.
As part of this effort, webelieve wemust continue to be an outstanding corporate citizen in the communities in which weoperate.
Ourbrands workto meet or exceed their economic, environmental, ethical and legal responsibilities.
Strong relationships with our travel agent partners are especially vital to our success.
We continue to strengthen our relationship with the travel agent community byincreasing our communication and outreach, implementing changes based ontheir feedback and improving our educational programs to assist agents in stimulating cruise demand.
Global Cruise Industry I. Overview Cruising offers a broad range of products and services to suit vacationing guests of many ages, backgrounds and interests.
Cruise brands can be broadly classified as offering contemporary, premium and luxury cruise experiences.
Thecontemporary experience typically includes cruises that last seven days or less and have a more casual ambiance.
Thepremium experience typically includes cruises that last from seven to 14days and appeal to those whoare more affluent.
Premium cruises emphasize quality, comfort, style and more destination-focused itineraries.
Theluxury experience is usually characterized byvery high standards of accommodation and service, smaller vessel size and exotic itineraries to ports that are inaccessible to larger ships.
We have product and service offerings in each of these three broad classifications.
Favorable Characteristics of the Global Cruise Industry a.
High Guest Satisfaction Rates Cruise guests tend to rate their overall satisfaction with a cruise vacation higher than comparable land-based hotel and resort vacations.
According to industry surveys, the cruise experience consistently exceeds expectations of repeat and first-time cruisers.
Cruising continues to receive high guest satisfaction rates because of the unique vacation experiences it offers, including visiting multiple destinations without having to pack and unpack, all-inclusive product offerings and state-of-the-art cruise ships with entertainment, relaxation and fun, all at an outstanding value.
Positive Demand Trends Social media has a powerful impact onconsumer behavior.
Technology allows people to instantly share travel experiences within their social networks.
Seeing others embrace travel and experience the world in newways inspires people to travel themselves.
Consumers are looking to experiences and learning for personal fulfillment.
Todays travelers are looking for immersive, meaningful and memorable travel experiences.
While it is useful for the cruise industry to consider travel markets across demographic groups, the ability to identify and address target markets based onpsychographics or attitudes that cut across demographics is even more meaningful.
We believe the cruise industry is well positioned to meet travelers desires and has the ability to tailor experiences for each guest based ontheir unique wants and needs, which should foster growth for the cruise industry.
From a demographic perspective, twoage groups, the BabyBoomers and the Millennial generations, have in recent years experienced trends that positively affect demand for cruising.
Cruising benefits from the aging of the BabyBoomer and Millennial generations.
In North America alone, the number of BabyBoomers at retirement age increases from 48million in 2015to 56million in 2020and 74million by2030.
TheBabyBoomer generation likes to pursue an active lifestyle and has the desire and the means to travel and enjoys multigenerational cruising.
TheMillennial generation has surpassed the size of the BabyBoomer generation and represents the fastest growing demographic segment of the vacation industry.
This group expresses a strong desire to travel and share newexperiences, a mindset that should continue to foster growth for the industry.
A recent study bythe American Society of Travel Agents ASTA indicates that the Millennial generation is even more likely to cruise and more likely to enjoy cruises than the BabyBoomer generation.
6 These changes in consumer behavior and demographics, along with growing populations, increasing wealth in developing countries and increased spending byconsumers onexperience versus products, will continue to drive demand for travel and the global cruise industry.
These groups of consumers are becoming eager to experience the world through travel, which provides significant growth opportunity for the cruise industry within and beyond the established markets.
c. Wide Appeal Cruising appeals to a broad range of ages and income levels.
Cruising provides something for every generation, from kids clubs to an array of onboard entertainment designed to appeal to teens and adults.
Cruising also offers transportation to a variety of destinations and a diverse range of ship types and sizes, as well as price points, to attract guests with varying tastes and income levels.
Toencourage first-time and repeat cruisers and better compete with other vacation alternatives the cruise industry has in recent years refocused its marketing efforts, enhanced training of travel agents and collaborated with well-known brands and offers the following: Expanded entertainment options andEnhanced internet and communication shipboard activities capabilities Flexible dining options including open-seatingBeverage package options diningMoney-back guarantees Branded specialty restaurants, bars and cafs d. Large Addressable Markets Theglobal cruise industry is a relatively small part of the wider global vacation industry, which includes a large variety of land-based vacation alternatives.
Therefore, webelieve there are large, addressable markets with low penetration rates.
Thepenetration rates below were computed based onthe 2017global cruise guests carried from G. P. Wild International Limited G. P. Wild, an independent cruise research company, as a percentage of total population: 5.1% for Australia and NewZealand 3.5% for the United States U. S. and Canada 2.9% for the United Kingdom UK 2.1% for Germany and Italy We also believe Asia is a large addressable market, where economic growth has raised discretionary income levels, fueling an increasing demand for travel.
e. Exceptional Value Proposition We believe the cost of a cruise vacation represents exceptional value in comparison to alternative land-based vacations.
Cruising delivers unique benefits, such as transportation to various destinations while also providing accommodations, a diversity of food choices and a selection of daily entertainment options for one all-inclusive, competitive price.
Tomake cruising even more cost effective and more easily accessible to vacationers, the cruise industry typically offers a number of drive-to home ports, which enables many cruise guests to reduce their overall vacation costs byeliminating or reducing air and other transportation costs.
f. Ship Mobility Themobility of cruise ships enables cruise companies to move their vessels between regions in order to maximize profitability and to meet changing demand.
For example, brands can change itineraries over time in order to cater to our guests tastes or as general economic or geopolitical conditions warrant.
In addition, cruise companies have the flexibility to reposition capacity to areas with growing demand.
We believe that this unique ability to move ships provides the cruise industry with a competitive advantage compared to other land-based vacation alternatives.
