Summary Carnival Corporation wasincorporated in Panama in 1972and Carnival plc wasincorporated in England and Wales in 2000.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc operate a dual listed company DLC, whereby the businesses of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are combined through a number of contracts and through provisions in Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation and By-Lawsand Carnival plcs Articles of Association.
Thetwocompanies operate as if they are a single economic enterprise with a single senior executive management team and identical Boards of Directors BODs, but each has retained its separate legal identity.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are both public companies with separate stock exchange listings and their ownshareholders.
Together with their consolidated subsidiaries, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are referred to collectively in this Strategic Report as Carnival Corporation & plc, our, us and we.
We are the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries.
We are also the largest cruise company, carrying nearly half of global cruise guests, and a leading provider of vacations to all major cruise destinations throughout the world.
With operations in North America, Australia, Europe and Asia, weoperate a portfolio of leading global, regional and national cruise brands that sell tailored cruise products, services and vacation experiences on104cruise ships to the worlds most desirable destinations.
Vision, Goals and Related Strategies Ourvision is Together wedeliver unmatched joyful vacation experiences and breakthrough shareholder returns byexceeding guest expectations and leveraging our scale.
We believe our portfolio of brands is instrumental to achieving our vision and maintaining our cruise industry leadership positions.
Ourprimary financial goals are to profitably growour cruise business and increase our return oninvested capital, while maintaining our strong investment grade credit ratings and balance sheet.
Paramount to the success of our business is our commitment to health, environment, safety, security HESS and sustainability.
Toreach our primary financial goals, wecontinue to implement initiatives to create additional demand for our brands in excess of measured capacity growth, ultimately leading to higher revenue yields.
We will continue to identify opportunities to enhance our cruise products and services and optimize our cost structure while preserving the unique identities of our individual brands.
We have made significant investments in performing customer segmentation analyses and data analytics to gain insight into our guests decision-making process and vacation needs enabling us to identify newmarketing opportunities and further growour share of their vacation spend.
Asweoperate in the broader vacation market, wehave implemented strategies to growdemand by increasing consumer awareness and consideration for cruise vacations onour portfolio of brands through our ongoing marketing, public relations and guest experience efforts.
We continue to identify and implement newstrategies and tactics to strengthen our cruise ticket revenue management processes and systems across our portfolio of brands, such as optimizing our pricing methodologies and improving our pricing models, as evidenced byour newstate-of-the-art revenue management system implemented across six brands in 2018.
We also continue with initiatives to better coordinate and optimize our brands global itinerary strategies, maximizing guest satisfaction and profits.
We have invested in newmarketing technologies to further engage our guests bybringing to life the cruise experience.
We are building new, innovative, purpose-built ships that are larger, more fuel efficient, have an improved mix of guest accommodations and present a wider range of onboard amenities and features.
These ships further enhance the attractiveness of a cruise vacation while achieving greater economies of scale and improving returns oninvested capital.
Asof November 30,2018, wehave a total of 21cruise ships scheduled to be delivered through 2025.
Some of these ships will replace existing capacity as less efficient ships exit our fleet.
Since 2006, wehave sold 28ships and our newbuild program has been designed to consider an expected acceleration in our fleet replacement cycle over time.
Furthermore, wecontinue to make substantial investments in our existing ship enhancement programs to improve our onboard product offerings and enrich our guests vacation experiences.
4 We continue to growour presence in established markets and increase our penetration in developing markets, such as Asia.
We believe that our most significant long-term growth opportunity in Asia is in China, due to its large and growing middle-class population, expansion of its international tourism and the governments plan to support the cruise industry.
During 2019, weexpect that 4.0% of our total capacity will be home ported in China.
With 104ships and 12.4million guests in 2018, wehave the scale to optimize our structure byutilizing our combined purchasing volumes and common technologies as well as accelerating progress onour cross-brand initiatives aimed at cost containment.
We have and continue to integrate certain back office functions to achieve the full benefits of our scale.
Having global leaders in communications, innovation, maritime, procurement, revenue management and strategy supports collaboration and communication across our brands and helps coordinate our global efforts.
Ourability to generate significant operating cash flow allows us to internally fund our capital improvements, debt maturities and dividend payments.
In 2018, weincreased our quarterly dividend to $0.50per share, representing over $1.4billion in annual dividends, from $0.40per share in 2017.
Since resuming our stock repurchase program in late 2015, werepurchased approximately 87million shares for $4.6billion.
Over the same time period, wehave nearly doubled our quarterly dividend, distributing a total of $3.8billion in dividends to our shareholders.
Ourvision is based onfour key pillars: Health, environment, safety, security and sustainability Guests Employees Shareholders and other stakeholders Health, Environment, Safety, Security and Sustainability Ourcommitment to the safety and comfort of our guests and crew is paramount to the success of our business.
We are committed to operating a safe and reliable fleet and protecting the health, safety and security of our guests, employees and all others working onour behalf.
We continue to focus onfurther enhancing the safety measures onboard all of our ships.
We are dedicated to fully complying with, or exceeding, all legal and statutory requirements related to health, environment, safety, security and sustainability throughout our business.
We are committing resources across the entire corporation to further improve howweoperate to protect and preserve our oceans and are implementing fleet-wide changes and enhancements to our environmental processes and procedures.
We continue to increase the scope and frequency of our training and invest millions of dollars to upgrade our equipment to newship standards to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations.
Guests Ourgoal is to consistently exceed our guests expectations while providing them with a wide variety of exceptional vacation experiences.
We believe that wecan achieve this goal bycontinually focusing our efforts on helping our guests choose the cruise brand that will best meet their unique needs and desires, improving their overall vacation experiences and building state-of-the-art ships with innovative onboard offerings and providing unequaled service to our guests.
We enhance our guest experience byoffering high quality destinations around the world including a portfolio of private destinations that are uniquely tailored to our guests preferences.
Employees Ourgoal is to recruit, develop and retain the finest employees.
Ateam of highly motivated and engaged employees is key to delivering vacation experiences that exceed our guests expectations.
Understanding the critical skills that are needed for outstanding performance is crucial in order to hire and train our officers, crew and shoreside personnel.
We believe in listening to and acting uponour employees perspectives and ideas and use employee feedback tools to monitor and improve our progress in this area.
We are a diverse organization and value and support our talented and diverse employee base.
We are committed to employing people from around the world and hiring them based onthe quality of their experience, skills, education and character, without regard for their identification with any group or classification of people.
