Shareholders and Other Stakeholders We value the relationships wehave with our shareholders and other stakeholders, including travel agents, trade associations, communities, regulatory bodies, media, creditors, insurers, shipbuilders, governments and suppliers.
We believe that engaging stakeholders in a mutually beneficial manner is critical to our long-term success.
As part of this effort, webelieve wemust continue to be an outstanding corporate citizen in the communities in which weoperate.
Ourbrands workto meet or exceed their economic, environmental, ethical and legal responsibilities.
Strong relationships with our travel agent partners are especially vital to our success.
We continue to strengthen our relationship with the travel agent community byincreasing our communication and outreach, implementing changes based ontheir feedback and improving our educational programs to assist agents in stimulating cruise demand.
Global Cruise Industry I. Overview Cruising offers a broad range of products and services to suit vacationing guests of many ages, backgrounds and interests.
Cruise brands can be broadly classified as offering contemporary, premium and luxury cruise experiences.
Thecontemporary experience typically includes cruises that last seven days or less and have a more casual ambiance.
Thepremium experience typically includes cruises that last from seven to 14days and appeal to those whoare more affluent.
Premium cruises emphasize quality, comfort, style and more destination-focused itineraries.
Theluxury experience is usually characterized byvery high standards of accommodation and service, smaller vessel size and exotic itineraries to ports that are inaccessible to larger ships.
We have product and service offerings in each of these three broad classifications.
Favorable Characteristics of the Global Cruise Industry a.
High Guest Satisfaction Rates Cruise guests tend to rate their overall satisfaction with a cruise vacation higher than comparable land-based hotel and resort vacations.
According to industry surveys, the cruise experience consistently exceeds expectations of repeat and first-time cruisers.
Cruising continues to receive high guest satisfaction rates because of the unique vacation experiences it offers, including visiting multiple destinations without having to pack and unpack, all-inclusive product offerings and state-of-the-art cruise ships with entertainment, relaxation and fun, all at an outstanding value.
Positive Demand Trends Social media has a powerful impact onconsumer behavior.
Technology allows people to instantly share travel experiences within their social networks.
Seeing others embrace travel and experience the world in newways inspires people to travel themselves.
Consumers are looking to experiences and learning for personal fulfillment.
Todays travelers are looking for immersive, meaningful and memorable travel experiences.
While it is useful for the cruise industry to consider travel markets across demographic groups, the ability to identify and address target markets based onpsychographics or attitudes that cut across demographics is even more meaningful.
We believe the cruise industry is well positioned to meet travelers desires and has the ability to tailor experiences for each guest based ontheir unique wants and needs, which should foster growth for the cruise industry.
From a demographic perspective, twoage groups, the BabyBoomers and the Millennial generations, have in recent years experienced trends that positively affect demand for cruising.
Cruising benefits from the aging of the BabyBoomer and Millennial generations.
In North America alone, the number of BabyBoomers at retirement age increases from 48million in 2015to 56million in 2020and 74million by2030.
TheBabyBoomer generation likes to pursue an active lifestyle and has the desire and the means to travel and enjoys multigenerational cruising.
TheMillennial generation has surpassed the size of the BabyBoomer generation and represents the fastest growing demographic segment of the vacation industry.
This group expresses a strong desire to travel and share newexperiences, a mindset that should continue to foster growth for the industry.
A recent study bythe American Society of Travel Agents ASTA indicates that the Millennial generation is even more likely to cruise and more likely to enjoy cruises than the BabyBoomer generation.
