Summary Carnival Corporation wasincorporated in Panama in 1972and Carnival plc wasincorporated in England and Wales in 2000.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc operate a dual listed company DLC, whereby the businesses of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are combined through a number of contracts and through provisions in Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation and By-Lawsand Carnival plcs Articles of Association.
Thetwocompanies operate as if they are a single economic enterprise with a single senior executive management team and identical Boards of Directors BODs, but each has retained its separate legal identity.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are both public companies with separate stock exchange listings and their ownshareholders.
Together with their consolidated subsidiaries, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are referred to collectively in this Strategic Report as Carnival Corporation & plc, our, us and we.
We are the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries.
We are also the largest cruise company, carrying nearly half of global cruise guests, and a leading provider of vacations to all major cruise destinations throughout the world.
With operations in North America, Australia, Europe and Asia, weoperate a portfolio of leading global, regional and national cruise brands that sell tailored cruise products, services and vacation experiences on104cruise ships to the worlds most desirable destinations.
Vision, Goals and Related Strategies Ourvision is Together wedeliver unmatched joyful vacation experiences and breakthrough shareholder returns byexceeding guest expectations and leveraging our scale.
We believe our portfolio of brands is instrumental to achieving our vision and maintaining our cruise industry leadership positions.
Ourprimary financial goals are to profitably growour cruise business and increase our return oninvested capital, while maintaining our strong investment grade credit ratings and balance sheet.
Paramount to the success of our business is our commitment to health, environment, safety, security HESS and sustainability.
Toreach our primary financial goals, wecontinue to implement initiatives to create additional demand for our brands in excess of measured capacity growth, ultimately leading to higher revenue yields.
We will continue to identify opportunities to enhance our cruise products and services and optimize our cost structure while preserving the unique identities of our individual brands.
We have made significant investments in performing customer segmentation analyses and data analytics to gain insight into our guests decision-making process and vacation needs enabling us to identify newmarketing opportunities and further growour share of their vacation spend.
Asweoperate in the broader vacation market, wehave implemented strategies to growdemand by increasing consumer awareness and consideration for cruise vacations onour portfolio of brands through our ongoing marketing, public relations and guest experience efforts.
We continue to identify and implement newstrategies and tactics to strengthen our cruise ticket revenue management processes and systems across our portfolio of brands, such as optimizing our pricing methodologies and improving our pricing models, as evidenced byour newstate-of-the-art revenue management system implemented across six brands in 2018.
We also continue with initiatives to better coordinate and optimize our brands global itinerary strategies, maximizing guest satisfaction and profits.
We have invested in newmarketing technologies to further engage our guests bybringing to life the cruise experience.
We are building new, innovative, purpose-built ships that are larger, more fuel efficient, have an improved mix of guest accommodations and present a wider range of onboard amenities and features.
These ships further enhance the attractiveness of a cruise vacation while achieving greater economies of scale and improving returns oninvested capital.
Asof November 30,2018, wehave a total of 21cruise ships scheduled to be delivered through 2025.
Some of these ships will replace existing capacity as less efficient ships exit our fleet.
Since 2006, wehave sold 28ships and our newbuild program has been designed to consider an expected acceleration in our fleet replacement cycle over time.
Furthermore, wecontinue to make substantial investments in our existing ship enhancement programs to improve our onboard product offerings and enrich our guests vacation experiences.
