Port Destinations and Private Islands In select geographies around the world weoperate a portfolio of leading port destinations and private islands to growdemand and create relative scarcity.
This enables us to offer exceptional guest experiences bycreating a wide variety of high quality destinations around the world that are uniquely tailored to our guests preferences.
In addition, to secure preferential berth access to third party ports, wecoordinate across brands to negotiate berthing agreements and to secure preferred access through shared agreements and commitments.
General Ourships are regulated bynumerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships.
These requirements change regularly, sometimes ona daily basis, depending onthe itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.
If weviolate or fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, treaties and other requirements wecould be fined or otherwise sanctioned byregulators.
We are committed to complying with, or exceeding, all relevant maritime requirements.
Theprimary regulatory bodies that establish maritime laws and requirements applicable to our ships include: The International Maritime Organization IMO : All of our ships, and the maritime industry as a whole, are subject to the maritime safety, security and environmental regulations established bythe IMO, a specialized agency of the United Nations.
TheIMOs principal sets of requirements are mandated through its International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea SOLAS and its International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships MARPOL.
Flag States: Ourships are registered, or flagged, in TheBahamas, Bermuda, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Panama and the UK, which are also referred to as Flag States.
Ourships are regulated by these Flag States through international conventions that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships.
Representatives of each Flag State conduct periodic inspections, surveys and audits to verify compliance with these requirements.
Ship classification societies: Class certification is one of the necessary documents required for our cruise ships to be flagged in a specific country, obtain liability insurance and legally operate as passenger cruise ships.
Ourships are subject to periodic class surveys, including dry-dock inspections, byship classification societies to verify that our ships have been maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification societies and that recommended repairs have been satisfactorily completed.
Dry-dock frequency is a statutory requirement mandated bySOLAS.
Ourships dry-dock once or twice every five years, depending onthe age of the ship.
National, regional, state and local authorities: We are subject to the decrees, directives, regulations and requirements of the European Union EU, the U. S. U. S. states and hundreds of other international ports that our ships visit every year.
Port regulatory authorities Port State Control : Ourships are also subject to inspection bythe port regulatory authorities, which are also referred to as Port State Control, in the various countries that they visit.
Suchinspections include verification of compliance with the maritime safety, security, environmental, customs, immigration, health and labor requirements applicable to each port, as well as with regional, national and international requirements.
Many countries have joined together to form regional port regulatory authorities.
Asmembers of the Cruise Line International Association CLIA, wehelped to develop and have implemented policies that are intended to enhance shipboard safety throughout the cruise industry.
In some cases this calls for implementing best practices, which are in excess of existing legal requirements.
Further details onthese and other policies can be found onwww.
22 OurBODshave HESSCommittees, which were comprised of four independent directors during 2018.
The principal function of the HESSCommittees is to assist the boards in fulfilling their responsibility to supervise and monitor our health, environment, safety, security and sustainability related policies, programs and initiatives at sea and ashore and compliance with related legal and regulatory requirements.
TheHESSCommittees and our management team review all significant relevant risks or exposures and associated mitigating actions.
We are committed to implementing appropriate measures to manage identified risks effectively.
We have a Chief Maritime Officer to oversee our global maritime operations, including maritime quality assurance and policy, maritime affairs, environmental compliance, shipbuilding, ship refits and research and development.
Toensure that weare compliant with legal and regulatory requirements and that these areas of our business operate in an efficient manner we: Provide regular health, environmental, safety and security support, training, guidance and information to guests, employees and others working onour behalf Develop and implement effective and verifiable management systems to fulfill our health, environmental, safety, security and sustainability commitments Perform regular shoreside and shipboard audits and take appropriate action whendeficiencies are identified Report and investigate all health, environmental, safety and security incidents and take appropriate action to prevent recurrence Identify those employees responsible for managing health, safety, environment, security and sustainability programs and ensure that there are clear lines of accountability Identify the aspects of our business that impact the environment and continue to take appropriate action to minimize that impact 2.
Maritime Safety Regulations TheIMO has adopted safety standards as part of SOLAS.
Tohelp ensure guest and crew safety, SOLAS establishes requirements for the following: Vessel design and structural featuresLife-saving and other equipment Construction and materialsFire protection and detection Refurbishment standardsSafe management and operation Radio  All of our crew undergo regular safety training that meets or exceeds all international maritime regulations, including SOLASrequirements which are periodically revised.
SOLASrequires implementation of the International Safety Management Code ISM Code, which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention.
TheISM Codeis mandatory for passenger vessel operators.
Under the ISM Code, vessel operators are required to: Develop a Safety Management System SMS that includes, among other things, the adoption of safety and environmental protection policies setting forth instructions and procedures for operating vessels safely and describing procedures for responding to emergencies and protecting the environment Obtain a Document of Compliance DOC for the vessel operator, as well as a Safety Management Certificate SMC for each vessel they operate.
These documents are issued bythe vessels Flag State and evidence compliance with the SMS Verify or renew DOCsand SMCsperiodically in accordance with the ISM Code We have implemented and continue to enhance policies and procedures that demonstrate our commitment to the safety of our guests and crew.
These policies and procedures include the following: Training of our bridge, engineering and environmental officers in maritime related best practices at our newCSMARTAcademy, the Center for Simulator Maritime Training located within our Arison Maritime Center in Almere, Netherlands Further standardization of our detailed bridge and engine resource management procedures onall of our ships 23 Strategic Report Expansion of our existing oversight function to monitor bridge and engine room operations through state of the art fleet operations centers in Miami, Seattle and Hamburg Identifying and standardizing best-practice policies and procedures in health, environment, safety and security disciplines across the entire organization including onall our ships Further enhancement of our processes for auditing our HESSperformance throughout our operations 3.
Maritime Security Regulations Ourships are subject to numerous security requirements.
These requirements include the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code, which is part of SOLAS, the U. S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, which addresses U. S. port and waterway security and the U. S. Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010, which applies to all of our ships that embark or disembark passengers in the U. S. These regulations include requirements as to the following: Implementation of specific security measures, including onboard installation of a ship security alert system Assessment of vessel security Efforts to identify and deter security threats Training, drills and exercises Security plans that may include guest, vehicle and baggage screening procedures, security patrols, establishment of restricted areas, personnel identification procedures, access control measures and installation of surveillance equipment Establishment of procedures and policies for reporting and managing allegations of crimes 4.
Maritime Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous international, national, state and local environmental laws, regulations and treaties that govern air emissions, waste discharges, water management and disposal, and the storage, handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances such as chemicals, solvents and paints.
Asa means of managing and improving our environmental performance and compliance, weadhere to standards set byISO, an international standard-setting body, which produces worldwide industrial and commercial standards.
Theenvironmental management system of our company and ships is certified in accordance with ISO 14001, the environmental management standard that wasdeveloped to help organizations manage the environmental impacts of their processes, products and services.
ISO14001defines an approach to setting and achieving environmental objectives and targets, within a structured management framework.
International Regulations Theprincipal international convention governing marine pollution prevention and response is MARPOL.
Preventing and Minimizing Pollution MARPOLincludes four annexes containing requirements designed to prevent and minimize both accidental and operational pollution byoil, sewage, garbage and air emissions and sets forth specific requirements related to vessel operations, equipment, recordkeeping and reporting that are designed to prevent and minimize pollution.
All of our ships must carry an International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificate, an International SewagePollution Prevention Certificate, an International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate and a Garbage Management Plan.
Theships Flag State issues these certificates, which evidence their compliance with the MARPOLregulations regarding prevention of pollution byoil, sewage, garbage and air emissions.
Certain jurisdictions have not adopted all of these MARPOLannexes but have established various national, regional or local laws and regulations that apply to these areas.
Asnoted above, MARPOLgoverns the prevention of pollution byoil from operational measures, as well as from accidental discharges.
MARPOLrequires that discharges of machinery space bilge water pass through pollution prevention equipment that separates oil from the water and monitors the discharged water to ensure that the effluent does not exceed 15parts per million oil content and wehave voluntarily committed to upgrade the oil separation equipment to the latest MARPOLstandards onboard all of our ships byearly 2019.
Ourships must have oily water separators with oil content monitors installed and must maintain a record of certain engine room operations in an Oil Record Book.
In addition, wehave voluntarily installed redundant systems onall of our 24 ships that monitor processed bilge water through discharge to ensure that it contains nomore than 15parts per million oil content.
This system provides additional controls to prevent improper bilge water discharges.
MARPOLalso requires that our ships have Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plans.
MARPOLalso governs the discharge of sewage from ships and contains regulations regarding the ships equipment and systems for the control of sewage discharge, the provision of facilities at ports and terminals for the reception of sewage and requirements for survey and certification.
MARPOLalso governs the discharge of garbage from ships and requires the implementation of Garbage Management Plan and the maintenance of a Garbage Record Book.
Furthermore, MARPOLaddresses air emissions from vessels, establishes requirements for the prevention of air pollution from ships to reduce emissions of sulfur SOx, nitrogen NOx and particulate matter.
It also contains restrictions onthe use of ozone depleting substances ODS and requires the recording of ODSuse, equipment containing ODSand the emission of ODS.
b. Sulfur Emissions MARPOLalso addresses air emissions from vessels in both auxiliary and main propulsion diesel engines on ships and further specifies requirements for Emission Control Areas ECAs with stricter limitations onsulfur emissions in these areas.
Since 2015, ships operating in a number of regions throughout the world have been required to use fuel with a sulfur content of nomore than 0.1% or 0.5% depending onthe ECA, or to use alternative emission reduction methods, such as advanced air quality systems.
Additional local and regional ECAshave come into force since 2015.
TheInternational Maritime Organizations Marine Environment Protection Committee has agreed to implement a global 0.5% sulfur cap for marine fuel beginning in 2020.
TheEUParliament and Council have also set a 2020 implementation date for their 0.5% sulfur content fuel requirement the EUSulfur Directive.
Theoptions to comply with both the global 0.5% sulfur cap and the EUSulfur Directive include the use of lowsulfur fuel, installation of advanced air quality systems, or the use of alternative fuels, which may increase our fuel costs.
We have been installing advanced air quality systems onour ships.
These efforts are mitigating much of the impact from the ECArequirements.
Given the installation schedule, weexpect to use a greater percentage of low sulfur fuel in 2020, which may increase our fuel costs.
c. Other Ship Emission Abatement Methods In the long-term, the cost impacts of meeting progressively lower sulfur emission requirements may be further mitigated bythe favorable impact of future changes in the supply and demand balance for marine and other types of fuel, future developments of and investments in improved sulfur emission abatement technologies, the use of alternative lower cost and lower emission fuels and our continued efforts to improve the overall fuel efficiency across our fleet.
Since 2007, wehave achieved approximately 30% cumulative reduction in unit fuel consumption byfocusing onmore efficient itineraries, a wide variety of ships system hardware and software, energy-efficiency upgrades including hull coatings, air conditioning and engine performance improvement, creating collaborative energy-savings groups across operating lines and ships staff energy use awareness and training.
Aspart of our emission abatement program, wehave continued our workwith several local port authorities to utilize cruise ship shore power connections and have equipped 47ships with the capability to utilize shore power technology.
This technology enables our ships to use power from the local electricity provider rather than running their engines while in port to power their onboard services, thus reducing our ship air emissions.
Similarly, in an effort to extend our commitment to sustainability and to play a leading role in matters of environmental protection in the cruise industry, weare expanding our investment in the use of lowcarbon fuels, in particular, LNG:  are the first cruise ships in the world that regularly use dual-fuel engines for an energy supply with LNGwhile in ports onNorthern European and other itineraries 25 Strategic Report AIDAnovawill be the first cruise ship in the world with the ability to use LNGto generate 100percent of its power both in port and onthe open sea.
We have 11next generation LNGcruise ships onorder, including AIDAnova, entering the fleet in December 2018.
These innovative ships will reduce exhaust emissions to help protect the environment d. Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG In 2013, the IMO approved measures to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions of GHGsfrom international shipping byadopting technical and operational measures for all ships.
Thetechnical measures apply to the design of newvessels, and the operational reduction measures apply to all vessels.
Operational reduction measures have been implemented through a variety of means, including a Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan, improved voyage planning and more frequent propeller and hull cleanings.
We have established objectives within the  management system for each of our brands to further reduce fuel consumption rates and the resulting GHGemissions.
In 2016, the IMO approved the implementation of a mandatory data collection system for fuel oil consumption.
This amendment will require ships of 5,000gross tons and above to provide fuel oil consumption data to their respective flag State at the end of each calendar year, formally beginning in 2019.
Flag States will then validate the data and transfer it to an IMO database.
TheIMO will produce an annual report with anonymous data.
In early 2018, the IMO also committed to several shipping industry GHGemission reduction goals with 2030and 2050target dates.
e. Ballast Water In 2017, MARPOLbegan to govern the discharge of ballast water from ships through the MARPOLBallast Water Management Convention.
However, amendments were made to the regulation that effectively extend the implementation date for existing ships bytwoyears.
Ballast water is seawater used to stabilize ships at sea and maintain safe operating conditions throughout a voyage.
Ballast can carry a multitude of marine species.
The Convention is designed to regulate the treatment of ballast water prior to discharging overboard in order to avoid the transfer of marine species to newenvironments.
U. S. Federal and State Regulations TheAct to Prevent Pollution from Ships authorizes the implementation of several MARPOLAnnexes in the U. S. and imposes numerous requirements onour ships, as discussed above.
Administrative, civil and criminal penalties may be assessed for violations.
TheOil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA90 established a comprehensive federal liability regime, as well as prevention and response requirements, relating to discharges of oil in U. S. waters.
Themajor requirements include demonstrating financial responsibility upto the liability limits and having oil spill response plans in place.
We have Certificates of Financial Responsibility that demonstrate our ability to meet the maximum amount of OPA90related liability that our ships could be subject to for removal costs and damages, such as from an oil spill or a release of a hazardous substance.
Under OPA90, owners or operators of vessels operating in U. S. waters must file Vessel Response Plans with the U. S. Coast Guard and must operate in compliance with these plans.
AsOPA90expressly allows coastal states to impose liabilities and requirements beyond those imposed under federal law, many U. S. states have enacted laws more stringent than OPA90.
Some of these state laws impose unlimited liability for oil spills and contain more stringent financial responsibility and contingency planning requirements.
TheClean Water Act CWA provides the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA with the authority to regulate commercial vessels incidental discharges of ballast water, bilge water, gray water, anti-fouling paints and other substances during normal operations within the U. S. three mile territorial sea and inland waters.
Pursuant to the CWAauthority, the U. S. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System wasdesigned to minimize pollution within U. S. territorial waters.
For our affected ships, all of the requirements are laid out in EPAsVessel General Permit VGP for discharges incidental to the normal operations of vessels.
TheVGP establishes effluent limits for 27specific discharges incidental to the normal operation of a vessel.
In addition to these discharge and vessel specific requirements, the VGPincludes requirements for inspections, monitoring, reporting and record-keeping.
TheUnited States government recently passed the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act VIDA, an act that will clarify and streamline discharge requirements for the waste streams covered bythe VGP 26 and added a newClean Water Act Section called Uniform National Standards for Discharges Incidental to Normal Operation of Vessels.
VIDAwill eventually eliminate the VGP:however, while the standards and regulations are being developed, the 2013VGPhas been administratively extended.
There is uncertainty over what to expect with VIDA, including the limits to which VIDAwill apply and the mechanism through which state-specific standards wouldbe implemented.
We are subject to the requirements of the U. S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act for the transportation and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are generated byour ships.
In general, vessel owners are required to determine if their wastes are hazardous, comply with certain standards for the proper management of hazardous wastes and use hazardous waste manifests for shipments to approved disposal facilities.
S. National Invasive Species Act NISA wasenacted in response to growing reports of harmful organisms being released into U. S. waters through ballast water taken onbyvessels in foreign waters.
S. Coast Guard adopted regulations under NISAthat impose mandatory ballast water management practices for all vessels equipped with ballast water tanks entering U. S. waters.
These requirements can be met byperforming mid-ocean ballast exchange, byretaining ballast water onboard the vessel or byusing environmentally sound ballast water treatment methods approved bythe U. S. Coast Guard.
Most U. S. states that border navigable waterways or sea coasts have also enacted environmental regulations that impose strict liability for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance.
Thestate of Alaska has enacted legislation that prohibits certain discharges in designated Alaskan waters and sets effluent limits onothers.
Further, the state requires that certain discharges be reported and monitored to verify compliance with the standards established bythe legislation.
Environmental regimes in Alaska are more stringent than the U. S. federal requirements with regard to discharges from vessels.
Thelegislation also provides that repeat violators of the regulations could be prohibited from operating in Alaskan waters.
Thestate of California also has environmental requirements significantly more stringent than federal requirements for water discharges and air emissions.
EU Regulations TheEUhas adopted a broad range of substantial environmental measures aimed at improving the quality of the environment for European citizens.
Tosupport the implementation and enforcement of European environmental legislation, the EUhas adopted directives onenvironmental liability and enforcement and a recommendation providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections.
TheEuropean Commissions EC strategy is to reduce atmospheric emissions from ships.
TheECstrategy seeks to implement SOxEmission Control Areas set out in MARPOL, as discussed above.
TheEChas also implemented regulations aimed at reducing GHGemissions from maritime shipping through a Monitoring, Reporting and Verification MRV regulation, which began collecting emissions data in 2018 from ships over 5,000gross tons to monitor and report their carbon emissions onall voyages to, from and between European Unionports.
Maritime Health Regulations We are committed to providing a healthy environment for all of our guests and crew.
We collaborate with public health inspection programs throughout the world, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U. S. CDC and the SHIPSANProject in the EUto ensure that development of these programs leads to enhanced health and hygiene onboard our ships.
Through our collaborative efforts, weworkwith the authorities to develop and revise guidelines, review plans and conduct on-site inspections for all newbuilds and significant ship renovations.
In addition, wecontinue to maintain our ships bymeeting, and often exceeding, applicable public health guidelines and requirements, complying with inspections, reporting communicable illnesses and conducting regular crew training and guest education programs.
Maritime Labor Regulations TheInternational Labor Organization develops and oversees international labor standards and includes a broad range of requirements, such as the definition of a seafarer, minimum age of seafarers, medical certificates, 27 Strategic Report
