We may be impacted byunforeseen events, such as workstoppages, insolvencies, force majeure events or other financial difficulties experienced byshipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers.
This may result in less shipyard availability resulting in delays or preventing the delivery of our ships under construction and or the completion of the repair, maintenance, or refurbishment of our existing ships.
This may lead to potential delays or cancellations of cruises.
In addition, the prices of various commodities that are used in the construction of ships and for repair, maintenance and refurbishment of existing ships, such as steel, are subject to volatility.
Examples of how we manage and or mitigate this principal risk: We ensure access and priority for ship repairs as part owners and part of the governance teams of two shipyards We require shipyards to obtain insurance Ourshipbuilding contracts include refund and performance guarantees Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this document are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided bySection 27Aof the Securities Act of 1933and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking.
These statements are based oncurrent expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business and the industry in which weoperate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements byusing words like will, may, could, should, would, believe, depends, expect, goal, anticipate, forecast, project, future, intend, plan, estimate, target, indicate, outlook, and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms.
Forward-looking statements include those statements that relate to our outlook and financial position including, but not limited to, statements regarding: Net revenue yieldsNet cruise costs, excluding fuel per available lower berth day  of ship depreciable lives and residual values Pricing and occupancyGoodwill, ship and trademark fair values Interest, tax and fuel expensesLiquidity Currency exchange ratesAdjusted earnings per share Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this Strategic Report.
This Strategic Report contains important cautionary statements of the knownfactors that weconsider could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.
It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks.
There may be additional risks that weconsider immaterial or which are unknown.
Forward-looking statements should not be relied uponas a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, weexpressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this document, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances onwhich any such statements are based.
Thereview of future commitments and funding sources within the business review indicates that Carnival Corporation & plc is well positioned to meet its commitments and obligations for at least 12months from the date of this report.
In light of these circumstances, the BODshave a reasonable expectation that Carnival Corporation & plc has adequate resources to continue in operational existence.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Carnival plc consolidated IFRSfinancial statements.
