Ourgoal is to be a leader in delivering high quality professional maritime training.
In 2016, weexpanded our training operations with the opening of the Arison Maritime Center.
Thecenterpiece of the campus is the Center for Simulator Maritime Training CSMART.
TheCSMARTAcademy features the most advanced bridge and engine room simulator technology and equipment available with the capacity to provide annual professional training for all our bridge and engineering officers.
CSMARTparticipants receive a maritime training experience that fosters critical thinking, problem solving, ethical decision making and skill development.
In 2017, CSMART launched an environmental officer training program and began offering additional environmental courses for bridge and engineering officers to further enhance our training onsocial responsibility and environmental protection.
During 2018, weprovided training to nearly 6,800bridge and engineering officers at CSMART.
Information Technology With the increasing size and sophistication of cruise ships, the technologies employed to create guest experiences and operate ships have grownever more complex and integrated.
Ourglobal information technology model is designed to contribute to exceeding expectations of our guests, crew, shoreside employees and other stakeholders.
This model is focused onsupporting exceptional guest experiences while increasingly leveraging common technologies to drive process efficiency and effectiveness across our portfolio of brands.
In order to achieve our goals, weare focusing onapplications, connectivity, cybersecurity, privacy, infrastructure and innovation.
In response to the increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks, weare striving to provide protection of guest, employee, company and other data and develop best practices that focus onpeople, process and technology to combat threats and malicious activity.
In addition, wehave established a committee to further our focus onminimization, protection, and proper handling of private data.
All of our brands are actively collaborating onour global information technology solutions, standards and processes across our shoreside and shipboard environment.
Byaligning technology planning, infrastructure, security, privacy and applications, wecontinue to maximize the business value of our information technology investments byeliminating redundancies and driving synergies across the brands while identifying and leveraging best practices and establishing common standards.
Innovation We have successfully delivered innovation to our guests for more than four decades.
Ourcontinuous innovation with ship design allows our guests to enjoy carefully crafted experiences while effortlessly en-route to their next port-of-call.
Ourleading port development has opened newlocations and experiences to our guests.
Ourinnovation pursuit is focused oncreating amazing guest experiences and leveraging our enterprise scale.
This focus has driven the creation of our newly developed Experience Platform.
Theguest centric experience platform leverages multiple proprietary technologies that worktogether to power guest experiences.
TMOceanMedallion - a revolutionary wearable device that enables a highly personalized vacation experience that works in conjunction with a portfolio of digital experiences all focused onsimplifying guest access to experiences and facilitating a more immersive vacation TMxiOT - an invisible network of interactive intelligent sensors and embedded devices mounted throughout the ship, home ports and destinations that uses a guest-centric, Internet of Things approach to enable a seamless guest experience In 2018, weopened the third of three state-of-the-art Fleet Operations Centers FOC with advanced ship to shore communications technology.
We continue to develop, implement and utilize cutting-edge proprietary technology at these centers to enhance our ability to monitor ship nautical and technical performance in real time, including fuel consumption, engine performance and air emissions.
Thecenters allow for improved communications between the ship and shore, and immediate support to our ships for route planning, maritime safety and risk management.
In 2018, wecompleted the roll-out of our state-of-the-art revenue management system across six brands.
Additionally, weintroduced several newmobile applications, including Carnival Cruise Lines HubApp, Costas MyCosta and AIDAsmyAIDA.
AIDAalso completed the fleet-wide roll out of Seamless check-in, enabling an embarkation process of just thirty seconds per guest.
Supply Chain We incur expenses for goods and services to deliver exceptional cruise experiences to our guests.
In addition, we incur significant capital expenditures for materials to support the refurbishment and enhancements of our vessels as well as to build newships.
We approach our spend strategically and look for suppliers whodemonstrate the ability to help us leverage our scale in terms of cost, quality, service and innovation.
We are focused onthe creation of strategic partnerships and will streamline our supplier base, where it is prudent.
Ourlargest capital investments are for the construction of newships.
We have agreements in place for the construction of 21cruise ships with four shipyards.
General We maintain insurance to cover a number of risks associated with owningand operating our vessels and other non-ship related risks.
All such insurance policies are subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels.
Insurance premiums are dependent onour ownloss experience and the general premium requirements of our insurers.
We maintain certain levels of deductibles for substantially all the below-mentioned coverages.
We may increase our deductibles to mitigate future premium increases.
We donot carry coverage related to loss of earnings or revenues from our ships or other operations.
Protection and Indemnity P&I Coverages Liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third party claims in connection with our cruise activities are covered byour P&I clubs, which are mutual indemnity associations ownedbyship owners.
We are members of three P&I clubs, Gard, Steamship Mutual and UKClub, which are part of a worldwide group of 13P&I clubs, knownas the International Groupof P&I Clubs the IG.
TheIGinsures directly, and through broad and established reinsurance markets, a large portion of the worlds shipping fleets.
Coverage is subject to the P&I clubs rules and the limits of coverage are determined bythe IG.
c. Hull and Machinery Insurance We maintain insurance onthe hull and machinery of each of our ships for reasonable amounts as determined by management.
Thecoverage for hull and machinery is provided bylarge and well-established international marine insurers.
Insurers make it a condition for insurance coverage that a ship be certified as in class bya classification society that is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies IACS.
All of our ships are routinely inspected and certified to be in class byan IACSmember.
d. War Risk Insurance We maintain war risk insurance for legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as loss or damage to our vessels arising from war or war-like actions, including terrorist incidents.
Items excluded from this coverage are claims arising from chemical, nuclear and biological attacks.
Ourprimary war risk insurance coverage is provided byinternational marine insurers and our excess war risk insurance is provided byour three P&I clubs.
Under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, which are typical for war risk policies in the marine industry, insurers can give us seven days notice that the insurance policies will be cancelled.
However, the policies can be reinstated at different premium rates.
This gives insurers the ability to increase our premiums following events that they determine have increased their risk.
e. Other Insurance We maintain property insurance covering our shoreside assets and casualty insurance covering liabilities to third parties arising from our hotel and transportation business, shore excursion operations and shoreside operations, including our port and related commercial facilities.
We also maintain workers compensation, directors and officers liability and other insurance coverages.
