Exemption Under Applicable Income Tax Treaties We believe that the U. S. source transportation income earned byCarnival plc and its subsidiaries currently qualifies for exemption from U. S. federal income tax under applicable bilateral U. S. income tax treaties.
U. S. State Income Tax Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and certain of their subsidiaries are subject to various U. S. state income taxes generally imposed oneach states portion of the U. S. source income subject to U. S. federal income taxes.
However, the state of Alaska imposes an income tax onits allocated portion of the total income of our companies doing business in Alaska and certain of their subsidiaries.
b. UK and Australian Income Tax Cunard, P&OCruises UK and P&OCruises Australia are divisions of Carnival plc and have elected to enter the UKtonnage tax under a rolling ten-year term and, accordingly, reapply every year.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes onprofits calculated byreference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
UKcorporation tax is not chargeable under the normal UKtax rules onthese brands relevant shipping income.
Relevant shipping income includes income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities.
For a company to be eligible for the regime, it must be subject to UKcorporation tax and, among other matters, operate qualifying ships that are strategically and commercially managed in the UK.
Companies within UK tonnage tax are also subject to a seafarer training requirement.
OurUKnon-shipping activities that donot qualify under the UKtonnage tax regime remain subject to normal UKcorporation tax.
Dividends received from subsidiaries of Carnival plc doing business outside the UKare generally exempt from UKcorporation tax.
P&OCruises Australia and all of the other cruise ships operated internationally byCarnival plc for the cruise segment of the Australian vacation region are exempt from Australian corporation tax byvirtue of the UK Australian income tax treaty.
c. Italian and German Income Tax In early 2015, Costa and AIDAre-elected to enter the Italian tonnage tax regime through 2024and can reapply for an additional ten-year period beginning in early 2025.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes onshipping profits calculated byreference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
Most of Costas and AIDAsearnings that are not eligible for taxation under the Italian tonnage tax regime will be taxed at an effective tax rate of 4.8%.
Substantially all of AIDAsearnings are exempt from German income taxes byvirtue of the Germany Italy income tax treaty.
d. Asian Countries Income and Other Taxes Substantially all of our brands income from their international operations in Asian countries is exempt from income tax byvirtue of relevant income tax treaties.
In addition, the income is exempt from indirect taxes in China under relevant income tax treaties and other circulars.
e. Other In addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose taxes, fees and other charges based onguest counts, ship tonnage, passenger capacity or some other measure.
Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property We own, use and or have registered or licensed numerous trademarks, patents and patent pending designs and technology, copyrights and domain names, which have considerable value and some of which are widely 29 Strategic Report
