Strategic Report TheDirectors consider that within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs business strategy is byreference to the consolidated strategy of Carnival Corporation & plc.
Accordingly, this Strategic Report presents the required strategy and business review for the combined group in order to satisfy reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Dear Shareholders, 2018wasanother strong year for our company.
We achieved the highest full-year earnings in our companys history, our fifth consecutive year of adjusted earnings growth and third consecutive record year.
More importantly, 2018marked the return to double-digit return oninvested capital.
Backin 2013, weset an objective to transform our company and, within five years, to reach double-digit return oninvested capital-- the mark of a high-performing company.
I sincerely thank our more than 120,000team members whowent above and beyond, and byconsistently exceeding our guest expectations, delivered for both our guests and our shareholders.
In just five years, our team more than doubled our return oninvested capital and nearly tripled our adjusted earnings per share, through executing our strategy to create demand in excess of measured capacity growth while leveraging our industryleading scale.
It wastheir efforts that drove, over that time period, an $11billion increase in market capitalization and the return of $11billion to shareholders through strong dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases.
All of this wasaccomplished while also achieving an improvement to A-and A3credit ratings from S&Pand Moodys, respectively.
It wastheir passion and their commitment that enabled us to overcome a host of headwinds and still perform at these higher levels.
Andwhencombined with the strong support of our valued travel agent partners, underpinned our sustained earnings improvement.
Creating Demand in Excess of Measured Capacity Growth While the journey to sustained double-digit return oninvested capital is built onthe foundation of exceeding guest expectations, wehave many other notable accomplishments that helped pave the way.
Ourproactive public relations efforts to increase consideration for cruise and reduce misperceptions about cruising have clearly had a positive impact ondemand creation.
Theabsolute number of positive media mentions is five times what they were just five years ago and today our brands consistently capture over 75percent of all positive media in our industry.
Through our marketing efforts, our brands have shared the spotlight with many well-known personalities who brought with them a greater audience of potential new-to-cruise like, to name a few, Oprah Winfrey for Holland America Line, Shaquille ONeal for Carnival Cruise Line, Shakira for Costa, and even Her Majesty the Queen for P&OCruises UK.
Ourbrands were featured ontelevision programs all around the world including: GoodMorningAmerica, The TodayShow,  the U. S. and in the UK, Ant&Decand the ITVreality show, TheCruise.
In addition, wecreated our ownoriginal TVprogramming which has already reached more than 400million views and counting, airing onmajor U. S. networks including ABC, NBC, Telemundo and Univision.
Our proprietary shows-- Emmy-award  Corwin, , VacationCreation, and for the fast growing Spanish-speaking market, LaGranSorpresa -- are among the most popular travel series onTV, using authentic storytelling to share the powerful waytravel bysea connects people, places and cultures around the world.
All of these programs and more can also be found onour ownover the top digital platform, OceanView, or our ownmobile app, OceanViewmobile.
Through our history-making voyage to Cubain 2016, wecaptured over 55billion highly positive media impressions, and became the first U. S. cruise operator in more than 40years to bring cruise guests directly from the U. S. to Cuba.
Atthe same time, our voyage opened an exciting newdestination option in the Caribbean for our guests.
