CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The Board has considered the short and longer term strategic focus areas set out in the strategic report, as well as the principal risks, risk appetite and resulting business objectives.
Josef El-Raghy Chairman Dear shareholders Progress has been made throughout Through the financial reporting and 2018 to ensure opportunity for Board budgeting process, together with the 2018 was a challenging year for refreshment and succession with two review of operational activity, the Centamin, but despite the operational new non-executive appointments this Board has considered the short and challenges, costs were kept under year.
A recruitment consultant is longer term strategic focus areas set tight control and Centamin remained actively pursuing three additional out in the strategic report, as well as cash generative.
This allowed the Board appointments.
Two additional the principal risks, risk appetite and Board to declare dividend payments independent Non-Executive Directors resulting business objectives.
of US$63.5 million for 2018. are to be identified and will provide The key areas of 2016 Code Sukaris long term sustainability was continuity for the Board and compliance can be found in the reconfirmed by the reserve and succession for those Directors following areas of the 2018 annual resource update, which demonstrated approaching the end of their period report and accounts: our ability to replace high-grade of independence.
My role as underground reserves, and the open Non-Executive Chair is mandated to C. 1.1.
Fair, balanced and pit has a mine life in excess of 15 ensure continuity and stability during understandable applied across years.
Longer term, exploration this transitional phase and, aided by the strategic, governance and projects in West Africa continue to be the Nomination Committee and the financial review with the promising, with further progress at our recruitment consultant, we will, in confirmation statement in the two projects in Cte dIvoire.
addition to the two new Directors responsibilities statement Non-Executive Directors, identify a and assumptions in the audit and The results of the AGM this year were suitable candidate to succeed me and risk report : disappointing, with shareholders take on the role of Non-Executive C. 1.3.
Going concern Directors electing to vote against the Chair.
This process is expected to be Responsibilities Statement and remuneration policy and significant completed during 2019. assumptions in the audit and votes were cast against the risk report : remuneration report.
The Board took Our Board composition and approach C. 1.2. Business model and delivery immediate steps to address to leadership are set out in detail on of strategy strategic report shareholder concerns, engaging with page 88.
Within the governance including the business model : key shareholders and proxy advisory report and, where applicable, the C. 2.1.
Robust assessment of groups to understand fully the areas strategic report, the Directors provide principal risks Directors for concern.
The changes made to the the required governance and responsibilities and assumptions remuneration policy and remuneration regulatory assurances.
in the risk management report : reporting that have been implemented in the report takes C. 2.2.
Viability statement account of feedback from the risk management report : and engagement process.
Monitoring and review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems audit and risk report.
84 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2018 has been a challenging year to shareholders.
The appointment of Josef El-Raghy operationally and the focus on 2019 new Board members in 2019 and the Chairman is firmly on delivering strong prospect of a new Chair provides 1 March 2019 operational performance and shareholders with assurance of continuing to manage costs.
We enter continuity as well as staged and 2019 with a knowledgeable Board, a progressive refreshment of the Board.
strong management team and a clear strategy to deliver sustained returns Governance and Code compliance at a glance LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION SHAREHOLDERS Separate roles Over half the Board are Audit partner rotation in Simple but effective Engagement with key undertaken by the independent 2018. remuneration structure.
shareholders and proxy Chairman Non-Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Staged refreshment of Increased role and scope Improvements proposed AGMs held with key Non-Executive Director the Board.
of the internal auditor to the performance share Directors in attendance.
and Deputy Chairman since its appointment plan in line with the 2018 Plans to recruit three Edward Haslam.
Regular meetings of the Ensuring a diverse Board Defined strategic Enhanced claw back Full disclosure of AGM Board and committees in all respects.
objectives and long term provision.
results on day of and exemplary business viability.
Non-Executive Director All Directors stand for Defined risk strategy and Remuneration policy for Investor meetings, meetings held during the re-election at each AGM.
capital markets day year without executives presentation.
Compliance statement The Company has applied the main Senior Independent Non-Executive principles set out in the 2016 Code Director takes an active role to The Company is incorporated in see table above, with further details ensure the Boards ongoing Jersey, Channel Islands.
The in this section of the annual report effectiveness in all respects: and Company, by virtue of the Listing enabling shareholders to evaluate Rules, is subject to the 2016 Corporate the Board determined that Alison how the principles have been applied.
Governance Code the 2016 Code Baker is independent within the issued by the UK Financial Reporting meaning of the 2016 Code.
The Throughout the year ended Council FRC and therefore the Board noted that although Alison 31 December 2018, the Company was Company must confirm that it has was a former PwC partner, she had in full compliance with the provisions complied with all relevant provisions not worked directly or indirectly on set out in the Code with the exception of the Code or to explain areas of Centamins account whilst of the following matters: non-compliance.
The Code can be employed with PwC and the Code and best practice found on the Financial Reporting has not been involved with PwC recommendations favour that the Councils website, www.
in providing any consultation or Chairman be an independent other related activities since leaving In addition, the Company is required Director on appointment.
The Board to follow the principles of corporate El-Raghy is not an independent therefore determined that Alison governance set out in the best Non-Executive Chair within the is considered in all respects to be practice recommendations of the meaning of the 2016 Code as he independent both in character and Toronto Stock Exchange, in particular was previously an executive of the judgment.
those recommendations in National Company.
Additional measures Policy 58201 Corporate Governance remain in place whereby Edward Guidelines NP 58-201.
Haslam Deputy Chairman and Centamin plc Annual report 2018 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction continued Compliance statement continued the Companys purpose and composition, succession and values are integral to the evaluation: The actions of the It is noted that the disclosures Companys success and ensuring Nomination Committee include contained in the Directors they remain relevant and are considering the length of service remuneration report exceed the communicated to the business is as a whole and ensuring plans are obligations of a non-UK company.
a key part of the Boards firmly in place for Non-Executive However, the Company considers objective throughout 2019: Director rotation and refreshment such enhanced disclosure is of the Board.
The Committee will appropriate to allow shareholders workforce engagement will be also consider executive and senior to compare the Company with actioned through the HSES management succession and talent UK incorporated FTSE 250 listed Committee and the existing management.
The Company has labour and workforce will be recommending the also incorporated many additional committees onsite at Sukari.
appointment of an external and voluntary disclosures in its The HSES Committee will ensure facilitator in 2019 to assist with strategic report.
regular at least quarterly the evaluation of the Board, meetings are scheduled and The Companys diversity policy is set committees and individual held with the workforce out in the Nomination Committee Directors the last such external Committee to ensure views are report, noting that the Companys evaluation having taken place heard and direction from the policy considers the composition of in 2016 : Board is shared via this forum.
the Board and the pipeline of talent In addition, the HSES committee audit, risk and internal control: within the organisation, having regard will assess the stakeholder Details of the Audit and Risk to gender, ethnicity, age and engagement plans covering Committees actions during 2019 educational and professional investors and shareholders and and their initiatives are set out in backgrounds.
suppliers, contractors and the audit and risk report on The Board and committees have employees: and page 108 to 117: and considered the new UK Corporate as a Jersey registered company, remuneration: The Companys Governance Code 2018 Code the full requirements of section revised and updated remuneration published by the FRC in 2018 that 172 of the UK Companies Act policy is presented in the applies to financial years beginning on 2006 section 172 are Remuneration Committee report or after 1 January 2019.
A full report additional to the Directors on page 118 to 143 and takes on the application of the 2018 Code current obligations under Jersey account the 2018 Code and will be included in the 2019 annual Law.
Understanding and, where accompanying guidance, as well report and accounts.
Since the necessary, implementing and as feedback following shareholder publication of the 2018 Code the updating policies to ensure and investor engagement.
Board and committees have compliance with section 172 will The policy will be subject to considered the changes and set out be essential as we work through shareholder approval at the AGM below are the initial actions in 2019.
The CGC Committee will in 2019 and, following approval, response to the new requirements: work with the HSES Committee will be in place for three years.
to ensure compliance with The Board has determined and leadership and purpose: the section 172 and make considers that the new Board and committees considered recommendations to the Board remuneration policy is aligned with the 2018 Code and associated as to what further actions are to the provisions in the 2018 Code.
guidance and in particular the be implemented.
questions posed by the FRC for division of responsibilities: The boards.
An agenda item for all governance report sets out the committees will be to continue responsibilities of the executive.
to assess adherence to the 2018 The Nomination Committee has Code and make any considered, in detail, Provision recommendations to the Board: 19 of the 2018 Code in relation to the role of the Chair and the succession and recruitment plans that are in place: 86 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board overview Set out below is the Board, committee and management structure of Centamin plc.
CENTAMIN PLC EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD COMMITTEES Health, Safety, Compliance Remuneration Corporate Operational Environmental and Audit and Risk and management management and Corporate Nomination Sustainability Governance Continuous disclosure OPERATIONAL HEADS OF DEPARTMENT How the Board of Directors operates The Board provides leadership to the Group and sets the Groups values and standards to ensure that its obligations to its shareholders are met and the Group complies with both regulatory and governance requirements.
The Board guides and monitors the business and affairs of the Company on behalf of the shareholders by whom they are elected and to whom they are accountable.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Board undertakes to serve the interests of shareholders, employees and the broader community honestly, fairly, diligently and in accordance with applicable laws.
Board composition and attendance At the date of this report the Board is made up of the Chair, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
See Directors details on pages 94 and 95.
The following table sets out the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
Health, Safety, Environmental Compliance Audit and and Corporate and Risk Sustainability Governance Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Andrew Pardey C. 6 of 6 Ross Jerrard 5 of 5 Non-executive Josef El-Raghy 5 of 6 Edward Haslam 6 of 6 6 of 6 3 of 3 3 of 3 C. 4 of 4 C. 6 of 6 Dr Fawzy 1 of 2 Alison Baker 5 of 5 C. 3 of 3 6 of 6 Mark Bankes 6 of 6 6 of 6 3 of 3 C. 3 of 3 4 of 4 Mark Arnesen 6 of 6 C. 6 of 6 3 of 3 4 of 4 6 of 6 C. Chairing the meeting and or Chairperson of the Board or committee.
Josef El-Raghy was absent from one meeting due to medical reasons and that meeting was chaired by the Deputy Chair, Edward Haslam.
The table excludes meetings held by written resolutions or sub-committees and reflects membership during 2018.
The Board met six times during the year, with three further meetings held by way of written resolution.
The business conducted is set out overleaf.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction continued Board composition communicates with shareholders in raise any concerns with the Board and re-election relation to the Companys strategic or with management: and aims and policies.
It is proposed at the date of this monitor corporate culture and annual report that all Directors will be stakeholder engagement.
The Chief Executive Officer: put forward for re-election at the Details of the senior management develops and implements short, AGM and election for Dr Fawzy.
team are set out on pages 96 and 97. medium and long term corporate All Directors are subject to annual strategies: re-election.
Detailed knowledge of the Groups is responsible for day-to-day activities is essential and each year the Leadership management of the business and Board visits Sukari where they are This report sets out the key areas the implementation of the Boards shown the underground operation, the Board has focused on during the strategic aims: and open pit site and the operations plant, year, together with details of the roles promotes the highest standards of accompanied by the heads of of the key Board members and an safety, corporate compliance and department based at Sukari.
In assessment of the effectiveness of adherence to codes of conduct and addition to regular site visits to the Board.
communicating to the workforce Sukari, the senior members of the the Companys culture and values.
management team and executives The Board sets and implements the visit the exploration sites in Burkina strategic aims and values of the The Chief Financial Officer: Faso and Cte dIvoire to ensure Company, providing strategic is responsible for delivering the activities in these regions are direction to management.
See further external financial reporting in aligned with the corporate objectives details in the strategic report.
compliance with the required of the Group.
The Chairman, Josef El-Raghy, regulations: The Board delegates certain of its is responsible for ensuring the oversees the preparation of responsibilities directly to the business is run in accordance with the strategic and financial budgets for committees see section below.
The CEO, Andrew the Group to ensure financial Pardey, has the responsibility for commitments are met: Board committees implementing strategy and overseeing develops and maintains a sound The Board committees are a valuable the day-to-day running of the system of financial controls and part of the Companys corporate business.
The CFO, Ross Jerrard is adherence to the Groups policies governance structure.
The workload of responsible for delivering the and procedures: the Board committees is far greater financial reporting, reviewing the identifies and implements risk than the table of scheduled meetings strategy for risks and opportunities management practices: would indicate, as ad-hoc meetings and representing the Company with represents the Group before key and communications occur frequently key stakeholders including stakeholders including government between the Directors and government officials.
officials including EMRA : and management.
The Board is in receipt The management team and Board are of detailed financial and operational monitors external contracts and relatively few in number and are monthly reports as well as the supplier relationships to ensure therefore aware and actively involved quarterly and annual financial they are operating effectively.
in all the major activities of the Group.
The terms of reference The Non-Executive Directors: They can therefore ensure the for each Board committee is challenge and help develop the Companys actions are aligned with available on the Companys website Groups strategy: the strategic aims of the Group.
participate as members of the The responsibilities of the Board and Board and on their respective key roles within the organisation are committees: set out below: monitor the performance of The Chairman: management: leads the Board to ensure it need to be satisfied as to the operates effectively: adequacy and integrity of financial and other reporting: sets the agenda and ensures all matters are given due determine appropriate levels of consideration and that Directors remuneration for Executive have the opportunity to contribute Directors: to Board discussions: and 88 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has delegated certain matters to its committees and their reports are presented within the strategic or governance reports as explained in the table below.
Health, Safety, Environmental and Sustainability Committee Sustainability report strategic report pages 80 and 81 see the HSES Committee report on page 80 and 81 and separately published sustainability report Audit and Risk Committee Risk and control environment governance report page 108 see audit and risk report on page 116 and 117 Remuneration Committee Directors remuneration report governance report pages 118 to 121 see pages 118 to 143 Nomination Committee Succession planning governance report page 100 see the Nomination Committee Report on page 101 Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee Compliance statement with the Corporate Governance Code governance report pages 98 and 99 see page 85 and 86 Board independence When determining whether a Director is independent, the Board has established a Directors Test of Independence Policy, which is based on the Code and the definitions of independence in the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 52-110 Audit Committees.
The Company remains compliant with the provisions of the Code, whereby at least half the Board comprises Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent.
Key activities of the Board in 2018 STRATEGIC SUKARI ACTIVITIES ACTION Sustainability Setting budgets, production and cost guidance for Approval and announcement of guidance in production guidance the year.
January 2018 and approval of revised guidance and cost estimates and cost estimates.
Sustainability Review proposals for contract and supplier Review life of mine plans, reserve and resource operational efficiency tendering and systems improvements.
data, operational forecasts and detailed comparisons of budget and actual data.
Cost control measures, system improvements.
Prioritising stakeholder returns Review of budgets and forecasts and capital Declaration of half-yearly and final dividends.
Review of cost recovery model and profit share arrangements.
Optimal growth Review data and results from updated reserve and Approval of capital expenditure budgets.
Review drill results and geological assessments.
Review proposals for underground development Assess project viability and resource data for and capital expenditure.
Social responsibility Sukari operational review, health and safety statistics Risk review and response to incident reporting.
health and safety and monthly reporting.
Review of existing projects Project implementation in Marsa Alam, Egypt.
Employee initiatives and awareness campaigns.
Develop policies to meet GRI compliance.
Review human rights policies and understand the impact of modern slavery in host nations.
Develop projects to reduce emissions.
Mine optimisation Review of production estimates, timely reporting of Approval of revised guidance.
revised forecasts, revised guidance and supporting Site visit to review first hand measures to support schedules ahead of both re-guidance revised mine plan.
Invitation to the Board of key site personnel and senior management to review production schedules.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction continued Key activities of the Board in 2018 continued STRATEGIC WEST AFRICA EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES ACTION Growth strategy exploration Approval of capital expenditure and exploration Drilling programmes and resource updates in drilling programmes.
Review exploration budgets and relative spend Ensure allocation of resources across the and results.
prospects and targeted exploration programmes.
Review of updated resource statements.
Social responsibility health Integrated reporting of HSES statistics.
Review of monthly reporting to the Board.
and safety CORPORATE, LITIGATION AND RISK ACTIVITIES ACTION Optimal growth Strategic review of business development Strategy review and ad-hoc meetings to assess opportunities including potential M&A.
Corporate Review the 2018 Code and policy requirements, Board and committee appointments.
diversity policy, governance trends and reforms.
Approve scope of external legal advisers, Compliance with local laws and regulations.
Litigation updates on the Companys ongoing court Confirm litigation strategy and review changes hearings details of which can be found in notes 2.7 in the legal system.
Risk and internal controls Review of the Companys principal risks, risk Updates to the risk register, internal appetite and linkages to long term viability.
communication of the Companys risk appetite and setting out the linkages between longer Review of the internal control environment and term risks and the ongoing viability of the internal and external reporting.
Approve the scope and plan of the internal and external auditors and monitor progress.
PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES ACTION Appointments Nomination Personnel requirements at Board and senior Approval of appointment of Alison Baker and Committee recommendations management levels.
Dr Fawzy as Non-Executive Directors and committee appointments.
Approval of appointment of Ross Jerrard CFO to the Board.
Approval of the change in role of the Chair, Josef El-Raghy.
Succession Nomination Review of succession plans for Board and Agreement on timing priorities for succession Committee recommendations management, diversity and Board performance planning for key roles and improving Board and evaluation.
Remuneration Remuneration Review of KPIs for the Executive Directors and senior Stakeholder engagement to prepare new Committee recommendations management and reviewing performance appraisals.
remuneration policy for shareholder approval.
Approval of awards, vesting criteria and bonus structure.
It is noted that throughout the year the Board of Directors had access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, and the services and advice of the Company Secretary.
90 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CASE STUDY: GOVERNANCE IN ACTION SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The AGM result in 2018 required immediate action by the Board.
The Board set out a plan to engage with shareholders and proxy advisory groups to address their concerns and understand the reasons for the significant votes cast against the members of the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration policy report.
In the days leading up to the AGM in 2018, the Board reviewed all available material, including recently published proxy advisory reports in connection with the Companys forthcoming AGM and direct shareholder and investor feedback.
This information allowed the Board to form a view and respond via a regulatory news announcement on the day of the AGM in compliance with E. 2.2 of the 2016 Corporate Governance Code.
The Board instructed a formal tender process to appoint a remuneration specialist to advise the Committee.
It was clear from the initial feedback that whilst there were areas within the policy that could be improved, there was not an issue over, for example, quantum of pay and therefore the review would be focused heavily on ensuring the policy met with industry best practice.
The Remuneration Committee finalised the tender process and appointed Korn Ferry, who worked with the Committee to identify areas within the policy that could be remedied immediately.
This followed a thorough review of the policy ensuring any proposed changes aligned with the Companys strategic objectives and would meet the approval of the shareholders, Committee and the Executive Directors.
The Committee has, throughout this process, recognised that its responsibility in serving the interests of shareholders must also include developing a remuneration structure that motivates and retains its Executive Directors.
Formal letters inviting engagement on the draft remuneration proposals were sent to major shareholders and proxy advisers, and where possible, face to face meetings with the Committee Chair were arranged.
The review process, carried out in conjunction with the Committee, ensured formal procedures were in place to align the bonus targets with the Companys strategic objectives and track progress against these measurable targets during the year.
The alignment of the remuneration policy, the share plan rules and the executive contracts has also been thoroughly reviewed as a result of this process.
The Board is pleased to recommend the approval of the remuneration policy, remuneration report and performance share plan to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in April 2019.
Areas of focus for the Communications the Board Internal control the Board, with Board in 2019 oversees the Companys public assistance from the Audit and Risk communications with shareholders Committee, oversees the Groups Strategic planning the Board and other stakeholders and will internal control and management regularly reviews and approves continue to ensure systems remain information systems.
The Board will strategic plans and initiatives put appropriate to meet the demands of continue to work with the internal forward by management and the the business.
A continued priority in auditor in 2019 to identify the next executives, including growth 2019 will be to communicate the scoping phase.
BDO LLP will review proposals and efficiency initiatives.
Companys strategic goals and the Companys procurement and Details of the strategic objectives to develop a safety-conscious culture contract management, key financial ensure stability and continuity of the throughout the business.
processes, inventory management business, maintaining shareholder and corporate policy review.
returns, growth prospects and Risk assessment the Board has opportunities and ensuring the primary responsibility for identifying Reporting and audit the Board, Company maintains its social licence the principal risks in the Companys through the Audit and Risk to operate can be found in the business and to ensure the Committee, has reviewed and strategic report.
Areas of focus will implementation of appropriate implemented upgrades to the relate to the exploration programmes systems to manage these risks.
System upgrades in Cte dIvoire towards pre-feasibility The Board will continue to review its and newly developed software will be studies and exploitation licence processes for risk identification and considered as part of a programme renewals in Burkina Faso.
Two major evaluation, improving internal to further streamline processes and capital projects are being assessed communication and external reports support the growth of the business.
including a solar farm and new tailings in this area.
storage facility which are to be presented for Board approval in 2019.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction continued Areas of focus for the As a direct result of the internal Managing risks and Board in 2019 continued evaluation process, the Board agreed internal controls that all independent Non-Executive Relationship with stakeholders The Board is responsible for satisfying Directors continued to demonstrate the Board will continue to maintain, itself that management has developed their independence and objectivity in develop and monitor relationships and implemented a sound system of all respects and provided continued with key stakeholders including EMRA risk management and internal value on the committees in which they in relation to Sukari and other controls.
Assisted by the Audit and served.
governmental bodies in Burkina Faso Risk Committee, management reports and Cte dIvoire.
to the Board on the Groups principal The Nomination Committee and the risks and the extent to which it Board discussed during the year the Succession and personnel: Delivering believes these risks are being need for any new appointments to the on the planned appointments of three appropriately managed and mitigated.
Board, either through the process of new Non-Executive Directors to the succession planning or external Board, one of whom will transition into Full details of the risk environment can appointments.
These discussions the role of Non-Executive Chair.
be found in the risk management culminated in the appointment of Ensuring vacant positions at senior report on pages 38 to 49.
Alison Baker and Dr Ibrahim Fawzy as levels are recruited and a review is The Board is pleased to confirm that independent Non-Executive Directors carried out of additional personnel the Company remains in compliance and promotion to Board level for Ross requirements at a corporate and with best practice guidelines, with the Jerrard CFO.
2016 Code and relevant Canadian for the appointment of a three new Board effectiveness requirements, and the systems in independent Non-Executive Directors place to manage risk and the internal Each committee carries out a in 2019 is underway, with one of those control environment have been in self-assessment evaluation of its appointments to be of the calibre to place for the year under review, up to effectiveness over the year.
the date of approval of the annual review compares the responsibilities With these new appointments, staged report and financial statements.
and objectives of the committee rotation and refreshment of the Board against the activities carried out During the year, the Company has begun.
A thorough review has during the year.
This evaluation is conducted an assessment of the been carried out of the skills and submitted to the Board for review.
control environment of the Group, expertise of our existing Board The internal annual performance taking into account the work of both members, including the overall length evaluation of the Board was the internal and external auditors.
of service of the Board as a whole, completed in February 2019 for the The key headings for this review can to ensure we have the right range year ended 31 December 2018. be summarised as follows: of backgrounds and experience to The Non-Executive Directors meet at see Centamin through to the next corporate governance framework: least annually, without the Chairman stage of growth.
management reporting framework: or CEO present, and evaluate their material contracts and contract performance during the year.
The management: Board is assisted by the Nomination procedures for forecasting and Committee on its evaluation of the budgeting: Non-Executive Directors.
The next external reporting obligations and scheduled review of the Boards procedures: effectiveness by an external facilitator information technology is due to take place in 2019.
The environment: and recommendations following the 2016 review have been implemented, which corporate and operational principal covered proposals for formalising the risk assessment.
succession planning process with consideration to diversity, formalising the induction process and definition of roles, particularly between the CEO and Chairman.
92 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the recommendation of the Environmental compliance committees, the Board evaluated The Directors are aware of their the existing control environment and commitment to environmental, approved recommendations for community and social responsibility, further systems development, the details of which can be found in the scope of the internal auditor, sustainability report which is published allocation of roles and responsibilities separately.
The Group is currently across the management team and complying with relevant environmental the scope and engagement of regulations in the jurisdictions in which external legal, compliance and it operates commercial advisers.
and has no knowledge of any environmental orders or breaches It was noted that the review and against the Group.
The Group subsequent recommendations to engaged environmental consultants improve the internal control Digby Wells to develop the Groups environment are part of a continuing reporting standards to international process of improvement.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI Employees standards.
In addition, the Group will Information relating to employees is be reviewing existing human rights contained in the sustainability report policies to ensure these are aligned which is published separately to this with best practice.
report, together with details of the Political donations number of employees at Sukari.
The Company does not make The Company abides by donations to any organisations anti-discrimination legislation in all with stated political associations.
jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are also set out in Supplier and payment policy the Companys code of conduct which It is the Companys policy that, subject sets out the framework in which the to compliance with trading terms by Company expects all staff to operate.
the supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions For a summary of the social conditions agreed in advance with the supplier.
in Egypt and the Middle East and an Further details on trade creditors are explanation as to the gender balance provided in note 2.9 to the financial in the workforce, please see the statements.
sustainability report which is published separately.
