CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Josef El-Raghy Andrew Pardey CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER FROM JANUARY 2019 SINCE FEBRUARY 2015 Josef has been responsible for overseeing Andrew was appointed CEO and Director the transition of the Company from small of the Board of Centamin plc on explorer, through construction and into 1 February 2015.
Andrew served as General production.
Manager of operations at the Sukari Gold Mine before his previous appointment as Experience Chief Operating Officer in May 2012 Josef holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree Experience from the University of Western Australia and subsequently became a Director of both Andrew was a major driving force in bringing CIBC Wood Gundy and Paterson Ord Sukari into production and was instrumental Minnett.
Josef is also Chairman of AIC in the successful transition of the operation Resources Limited effective 1 December through construction and into production.
Andrew holds a BSc in Geology and has over 25 years experience in the mining and Director since 26 August 2002 exploration industry, having previously held senior positions with Guinor Gold Board meetings attended 5 6 Corporation, AngloGold Ashanti.
Director since 1 February 2015 Board meetings attended 6 6 Ross Jerrard Edward Haslam CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER DEPUTY CHAIRMAN AND SENIOR SINCE 18 APRIL 2016 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ross was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Centamin in April 2016.
Since then, Ross has In addition to his role as Senior Independent assembled and led an excellent finance team Director, Edward has carried out additional between Jersey, Egypt and West Africa.
Ross corporate governance functions over the past has been responsible for leading efficiency few years for Centamin, while the roles of objectives such as the successful CEO and Chairman were combined.
implementation of improved cost control and monitoring measures, improvements to Experience reporting systems and the delivery of Edward has been a non-executive Director reporting timetables of accounts.
Ross was and Chairman from June 2007 to April 2012 appointed as a Director to the Board in of the LSE listed Talvivaara plc since 1 June February 2018.
2007 and from 1 May 2004 to April 2016 has been a non-executive Director of Aquarius Experience Platinum Ltd.
In 1981, Edward joined Lonmin: Before joining Centamin, Ross was audit he was appointed a Director in 1999 and chief partner with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Perth, executive officer in November 2000 before Australia.
Prior to moving to Australia he retiring in April 2004.
Edward is a Fellow of spent three and a half years in Egypt, based the Institute of Directors UK.
in Cairo, acting for multinational companies operating in the region.
Ross is a member of Committee membership the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Australia, the Institute of Chartered Committee Chair : Audit and Risk Committee: Accountants in Zimbabwe and the Australian Compliance and Corporate Governance Institute of Company Directors.
Director since 5 February 2018 Director since 23 March 2011 Board meetings attended 5 5 Board meetings attended 6 6 94 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Alison Baker Dr Ibrahim Fawzy INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Dr Fawzy has over 50 years of experience Alison spent much of her time at PwC working with industrial and investment working with the natural resources team, advising FTSE 350 and AIM companies on companies in Egypt and abroad.
He holds a transactions, M&A and corporate reporting.
BSc Degree in Mechanical Engineering from An advocate of building trust through the University of Cairo and a PhD from integrated reporting and having worked with University College London.
Dr Fawzy held the a wide range of clients, including those in the position of Minister of Industry of Egypt from emerging markets, Alison has developed a 1993 to 1996 and President and CEO of the strong cultural sensitivity and awareness of General Authority for Investment and Free wider stakeholder requirements including Zones GAFI in Egypt from 1996 to 2000. governments and local communities.
Experience Experience Dr Fawzy is currently the Chairman of the Alison is a former audit partner at Cairo stock exchange listed Company,  LLP PwC Egyptians Abroad Company for Investment & and Ernst & Young LLP, with nearly 25 years Development and Director of its subsidiaries.
Alison is also a Non-Executive Dr Fawzy was also a non-Executive Director Director at KAZ Minerals plc and Rockhopper of NASDAQ listed Quality Systems Inc. in Exploration plc.
California from 2007 to 2010 where he was also a member of Nomination and Committee membership Remuneration Committee.
Chair of HSES Committee: and member of Nomination Committee.
Committee membership HSES Committee effective 1 January 2019 : Director since 5 February 2018 and CGC Committee effective 1 January 2019.
Board meetings attended 5 5 Director since 14 August 2018 Board meetings attended 1 2 Mark Bankes Mark Arnesen INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Mark is an international corporate finance Mark has extensive expertise in the lawyer.
Mark specialises in international structuring and negotiation of finance for securities, mining policy and agreements, major resource projects.
Mark is a chartered mergers and acquisitions and international accountant with over 20 years experience in restructurings for the resource sector.
the resources industry and holds Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Accounting Experience degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand.
Mark has an MA from Cambridge University and joined Norton Rose in 1984.
He worked Experience in both London and Hong Kong and was a partner at Norton Rose LLP from 1994 to Mark was appointed CEO of ASX listed Nzuri 2007 before starting his own business, Copper Limited formerly Regal Resources Bankes Consulting EURL, in October 2007.
Limited in August 2016 and is also the sole Director of ARM Advisors Proprietary Limited.
Committee membership He has also served on the board of Gulf Industrials Limited.
Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee Chair : Committee membership HSES Committee until December 2018 : Audit and Risk Committee Chair : Audit and Risk Committee: and Remuneration Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee.
Committee: Remuneration Committee: and Nomination Committee.
Director since 24 February 2011 Director since 24 February 2011 Board meetings attended 6 6 Board meetings attended 6 6 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 95
