Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT Market review As a gold miner, Centamin is impacted by the dynamics of the gold market.
Centamin maintains a no-hedging policy and remains firmly focused on extracting, processing and producing gold as responsibly and cost effectively as possible, maximising margins.
Gold According to the latest report from Market fluctuations: World Gold Council, a number of how we respond Precious metals faced up to the brunt emerging markets significantly added of 2018s macroeconomic storm, and Centamin maintains a no-hedging to their holdings, notably Poland, yet given the further headwinds as a policy and remains firmly focused on Russia, Turkey, Kazakhstan and China.
result of a strong USD, Federal rate extracting, processing and producing Jewellery demand held broadly flat at rises and quantitative tightening, gold as responsibly and cost 2,200 tonnes with improving lower central bank purchases, effectively as possible.
The Company consumption in China, Russia and the persistently low inflation, weak has achieved an impressive nine-year US offsetting declines in India and the physical demand and exchange track record of positive free cash flow Middle East.
Retail purchases of bars traded fund ETF outflows, gold generation against a rapidly changing and coins increased 4% YoY from closed up 1% at US$1,280 per ounce domestic and global economic 1,045 tonnes in 2017 to 1,090 tonnes at the end of 2018.
In Q4, weakening environment, foreign exchange last year: however, investment buying USD, rising concern about global volatility and commodity cycles, slumped 67% YoY as 2018 was a year growth slowdown and increasing namely gold and fuel price.
To marked by significant ETF outflows equity market turmoil were likely account for these changing variables, despite the resurgence in buying contributing market factors in the Company regularly updates the activity throughout Q4, with 69 tonnes approximately a US$100 per ounce reserve and resource statements of gold added throughout the year increase in the gold price, from accordingly.
As part of a Group-wide compared to 206 tonnes in 2017.
sustainability initiative, respective studies have been done or are 2019 outlook Supply underway, assessing viable Market consensus indicates a re-rating Gold supply is likely to remain tight.
environmentally friendly options to of the gold sector, backed by Global exploration expenditure has reducing the reliance on fossil fuels, macroeconomic conditions, robust increased 18% in 2018 but is still 50% currently 20% of our cost base.
physical demand, safe haven of what the exploration spend was at investing, and diversification, present Maintain strong balance sheet: its peak in 2012.
With mines depleting strong fundamentals for a rising gold US$322 million cash and liquid resources and gold discoveries being price.
Forecasts for a weaker USD, assets, no debt made less frequently, it is likely to take rising inflation, and an anticipated some years before the increased Maximise margins: pause in interest rate hikes in the investment in exploration will US$383 ounce AISC margin second half of 2019, all suggest the materialise into significant increases Disciplined alignment of spend headwinds for gold could turn with in gold supply.
A negative outlook for 13% reduction in 2018 capex Demand gold could be if a China-led industrial against budget Worries about a global growth recovery occurs sooner than expected Completing solar farm slowdown, geopolitical tensions and or global economic growth slowdown feasibility study: financial market volatility supported is coupled with increased financial 40MW solar power, partial solution gold demand.
Global gold demand market turmoil.
against 80MW p. a. fossil fuel increased 4% YoY in 2018, to 4,345 consumption tonnes.
There was a remarkable 76% Source of information for market review: increase in annual central bank buying, SP Global Market Intelligence, totalling 651.5 tonnes, the most gold World Gold Council, Bloomberg.
bought by central banks since before the USD was unpegged from gold in 1971.
