CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Senior management Operations Youssef El-Raghy Mark Morcombe Chris Boreham GENERAL MANAGER CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER GENERAL MANAGER SUKARI EGYPTIAN OPERATIONS FROM 1 MARCH 2017 TO JULY 2018 Mark was most recently COO at Acacia An officer graduate of the Egyptian Police Mining plc and prior to that Senior Vice Chris holds a BEng Mining degree from the Academy, Youssef held senior management President at AngloGold Ashanti.
He has University of Sydney and a Graduate Diploma roles within the Egyptian police force for more than 25 years of mining industry of Business, First Class Mine Managers more than ten years, having attained the rank experience of which ten years have been Certificate in WA, Queensland and New of captain prior to joining the Group.
He has in various countries in Africa.
Having served over 12 years extensive contacts within the government engineer, Mark has spent much of his career with the Company, Chris resigned earlier and industry and maintains excellent working to date specialising in gold projects across this year to pursue other interests.
relationships with all of the Companys Africa and Australia.
Mark holds a Bachelor stakeholders within Egypt.
of Engineering Mining Engineering and a Masters of Engineering Science Raitt Marshall Mining Geomechanics from Curtin GENERAL MANAGER SUKARI University in Australia.
FROM JULY 2018 Mark Morcombe is serving three months Raitt holds a BSc Mechanical Engineering notice under the terms of his contract at the degree from Dundee college of Technology.
He has over 20 years experience in the mining industry having worked predominately in aluminium and gold mines.
Since January 2010 Since 8 January 2018 Since July 2018 Norman Bailie Ibrahima Danso Doaa Abou Elailah GROUP EXPLORATION MANAGER MANAGER, WEST AFRICA GROUP SUSTAINABILITY AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MANAGER Norman joined Centamin in October 2016 Ibrahima joined Centamin in June 2016 and and brings to the role over 25 years industry brings to the role over 20 years professional Doaa has worked closely with Centamin for experience in providing exploration and experience, notably with AngloGold Ashanti ten years, initially as an adviser, before joining resource consultancy to all levels of in Guinea and Democratic Republic of Congo the Company in 2013.
Doaa has more than exploration and mining companies in West, DRC, Alcoa in Ghana, Guinea and Jamaica, 18 years of experience as a consultant in East and Central Africa and South America.
and Newcrest Mining in Cte dIvoire.
Areas health and safety, environment and Norman is an accredited Chartered of expertise include leading small, medium community affairs.
Doaa has provided Professional Geologist and Manager and large-scale mining operations from technical support to numerous industries and through the Geological Society UK and feasibility study stage to development and facilities in Egypt and the Middle East across AusIMM, and a fellow of IOM3 UK and SEG operations.
Ibrahima is highly knowledgeable a broad range of sectors including mining, oil USA as well as a competent person under in dealing with African governments to and gas, industrial production, infrastructure JORC 43-101 criteria.
secure exploration and mining permits, and tourism.
Doaa holds MSc and BSc conceptualising and executing strategic honours degrees in Chemical Engineering community investment programmes in the from the University of Cairo.
host country as well as conflict resolution and dealing with key stakeholders to maintain our social licence to operate.
Since 10 October 2016 Since 31 May 2016 Since 1 May 2013 96 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Finance and corporate Mark Smith Riaan Nel Amr Hassouna GROUP FINANCIAL CONTROLLER GROUP ACCOUNTANT COMMERCIAL MANAGER SUKARI Mark joined Centamin as Group Financial Before joining Centamin, Riaan held previous Amr has been working at Sukari since March Controller in August 2015 and brings to the appointments at a hedge fund and at 2012 and was promoted to Management role a wealth of experience in site-based , both in Jersey.
Accounting Manager in February 2015 and to commercial and corporate finance across Riaan holds a B. Com Accounting Sciences Commercial Manager in November 2017. exploration, feasibility, construction and and a B. Com Honours Accounting Sciences Amr brings to the role a wealth of experience operations in both open pit and underground degree from the University of Pretoria and and understanding of the operating and mining environments.
Mark has worked completed his training at Grant Thornton commercial environment in Egypt.
previously for a variety of other publicly listed South Africa where he specialised in the Prior to joining Sukari, Amr was working in companies including BHP, Red Back Mining manufacturing and mining industries.
the oil and gas field in Egypt for eight years.
Inc, African Minerals Ltd and Endeavour Riaan is a member of the South African Amr holds a Bachelor Degree in Finance and Mining Corporation.
Institute of Chartered Accountants and Accounting from Alexandria University and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in membership of IMA Institute of England and Wales.
Since 17 August 2015 Since 6 February 2017 Since March 2012 Heidi Brown Alexandra Carse Darren Le Masurier SUBSIDIARY DIRECTOR AND HEAD OF INVESTOR RELATIONS COMPANY SECRETARY COMPANY SECRETARY Alexandra joined Centamin in December Darren is a fellow of the Association of Heidi is a Fellow Chartered Secretary FCIS, 2017 from Petropavlovsk PLC, where she Chartered Certified Accountants and has FGIA and GAICD.
Heidi holds a Graduate was head of investor relations.
Prior to this, over 18 years experience in corporate Certificate of Applied Finance and Alexandra has over twelve years experience administration, governance and offshore Investment and a Diploma of Financial as a sell-side corporate broker, specialising regulation in Jersey.
Prior to joining Advising from the Financial Services within the natural resource sector.
Alexandra Centamin, Darren worked at the fiduciary Institute of Australasia.
Heidi was the holds a BA degree in Economics and and law firm Ogier in Jersey for over ten Company Secretary of Centamin from Statistics from the University of Vermont.
years, providing professional company 2004 until 2012, and continues to act as secretarial, accounting, administration and Company Secretary and Director of Director services for a diverse range of Centamins Australian subsidiaries.
Since 23 January 2003 Since 4 December 2017 Since 8 July 2013 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 97
