STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action Group reserve Open pit truck and resources: availability: Asset 7.25Moz 94% reserves within quality 15.7Moz resources We always strive to improve Processing Plant plant recoveries: operational efficiencies to ensure we utilisation: 88.7% preserve the integrity of our assets 95% orebody, equipment, human capital.
View of processing plant and Sukari Hill.
24 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Uncompromised commitment to drive operational efficiencies Operational execution below the standards with which Results we set, expect and train our workforce and contractors to Tighter blasting to bogging tonnage reconciliation, deliver, materially contributed to the operational smaller blasting rings, smaller sublevel caving where headwinds faced in 2018. appropriate, constructing a cemented hydraulic fill plant to backfill stopes, recruitment of further personnel.
How we responded All supported by updated and refreshed training.
Increased mining dilution in the underground was an impacting factor experienced in 2018.
Centamin, in good Operational outcome working partnership with the underground contractors Quarter-on-quarter improvements in the second half.
and third-party consultants, underwent a review of Close monitoring of results in conjunction with the processes and procedures to identify areas for application of further improvements are expected improvement, including assessing alternative mining throughout 2019. methods.
Several changes were implemented to reduce the level of dilution and improve the operational reaction time in the future.
This work remains ongoing to fully resolve this operational issue impacting performance.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action No debt No hedging Financial flexibility No streaming Fully funded organic growth US$322 million cash and liquid pipeline assets as at 31 December 2018 and robust reinvestment back into the Our robust balance sheet and aggressive approach to business managing the bottom line, maximising cash flows, affords the Company the financial flexibility to fund and drive growth organically, whilst maintaining agility with which to seize value-accretive opportunities that may arise in our rapidly changing market.
26 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Cost-saving culture entrenched in day-to-day decision making Underpinned by the fundamentals of our business Results model, we focus on minimising the cost base with Continued reduction in warehouse stores and working stringent cost management and driving future growth capital reductions from US$100 million to US$70.2 million with competitive, disciplined capital allocation.
Workplace owner-operator Increasing inflationary cost pressures experienced equipment training in response to rising open pit costs throughout 2018, including global rising fuel prices, due to significant increase in material moved, as mining Egyptian economic reform impacting local inflation progressed through the transitional zone.
The successful and cyclical increase in mining sector activity impacting targeted training, improved productivity and availability cost of supplies.
of equipment, resulting in less equipment utilised and therefore requiring less input costs.
Open pit costs per How we responded tonne reduced by 11% to US$1.47 tonne moved.
Increased frequency of cost base and capital allocation, Enterprise Asset Management EAM software to maximise response time.
Daily cost-benefit review of investment, current staged roll-out procurement capital allocation at site with the General Manager.
Good established in-country Regular routine prioritising of longer-term capital reputation, combined with a robust long life of mine initiatives against the changing market pressures.
asset, has helped facilitate the negotiation of improved contractual terms with some suppliers and contractors.
Outcome Generated positive free cash flow of US$63.4 million in a challenging market environment and weaker operational performance.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action Employee % increase benefits in local Stakeholder and salaries workforce US$40.8 4% returns million Proposed total Community We recognise the importance of shareholder investment maintaining good relationships and dividend US$0.75 US$63.5 million working in the best interests of all million our stakeholders.
Group direct payments to government US$99.6 million including payment to our operating host country, Egypt Profit share Royalties US$76.4 US$18.4 million million Core samples from Underground drilling.
28 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Centamin is committed to maximising stakeholder returns Strong stakeholder engagement throughout the year In 2016 and 2017, salary increases of 25% and 20%, allows us to identify and maximise mutually beneficial respectively, were provided for the entire local Egyptian transparent returns in achieving short and long term workforce.
In 2018, whilst headline inflation came down objectives for the business, employees, shareholders, to below 15%, a scaling 15-30% salary increase was communities, host countries and environment.
provided to the local Egyptian workforce based on an independent benchmark salary survey.
Centamin have Centamins meaningful and transparent fiscal always remunerated our local workforce in the top contribution to government through profit share and quartile, understanding the value and importance in royalties and reliable shareholder returns through cash attracting and retaining quality individuals, continuity for dividends are well understood fundamentals of our long term sustainability and career progression.
Our strong sense of responsibility for the wellbeing and future of our workforce is paramount Results to our success.
Acknowledging socio-economic factors A technically strong, loyal workforce, improving outside of the workplace can materially impact the productivity and efficiencies.
95% of the workforce in wellbeing of our workforce.
For example, as Egypt Egypt are local employees.
Approximately 50% of the navigates tough economic reform, hyperinflation was Heads of Department roles are occupied by Egyptians at experienced in 2016 17.
Sukari, demonstrating strong professional development.
How we responded Outcome Empowering our workforce with the required knowledge Investment in our people contributes to achieving a and skills through investment in training, on site or strong and more reliable overall performance, while external professional development, and equipment and indirectly contributing to the wellbeing and standard of technology, is part of the foundation the Company was living of our workforce families and local communities, in built upon.
We are always exploring new ways to turn creating a multiplier effect driving socio-economic motivate and assist our workforce with career development within our host countries.
progression within the organisation while attracting new talented employees.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action 7.25Moz 58% mineral Active Sukari resource reserve, with upgrade at underground Doropo, PEA growth exceeding underway reserve replacement pipeline 650koz 2,560m of Our business starts and ends with geology.
maiden mineral Cleopatra resource development Exploration is at the heart of everything we do.
delineated at decline ABC completed, Portfolio management: Our focus is on our core business and driving producing operational efficiencies, while at the same time, steadily unlocking value 9koz gold from our highly prospective West African land package.
Uncompromising prudent management of our balance sheet has meant we can continue to invest in cyclical downturns.
Investment in exploration, talented geologists and technology are all fundamental to creating value through successful discovery of orebodies, development and mining.
Ensuring we attract talented local workforce gives us the jurisdictional and geological expertise necessary to strengthening our presence in the established and highly prospective growth areas we operate in.
Top of the crushed ore stockpile at Sukari.
30 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT NEAR TERM 1-2 YEARS MEDIUM TERM 3-5 YEARS Optimise growth from existing operations by Maximise sustainable production profile at Sukari increasing high-grade underground mining rates by fully unlocking underground potential and processing plant upgrades Development and first production in West Africa, Evaluate potential for additional sources of assuming positive project evaluation high-grade underground ore at Sukari Continue to replace high-grade underground LONG TERM 5 YEARS reserve at Sukari Regional exploration programme over the Continue to expand Group reserves and production Sukari tenement through exploration Resource expansion and project evaluation Become a multi-asset gold producer maintaining at Doropo, Cte dIvoire low-cost profile Resource expansion and project evaluation at Batie West, Burkina Faso Resource expansion and regional exploration at ABC Project, Cte dIvoire Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop low-cost projects Expand landholding in operating jurisdictions Centamin plc Annual report 2018 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy in action People are fundamental to the success of our business.
Centamin is a Sustainability multijurisdictional business, structured with regional hubs and thereby employing and contributing locally.
This lends itself to a cultural, ethnic and gender diverse global workforce.
Developing a sustainable business We are committed to protecting our people, our supply chain and the that is strategically imperative.
communities we work in, as well as the assets we discover, design, build, operate and maintain.
Health and safety Our aspiration is for zero work-related incidents.
We want to protect and improve the health of our workforce direct employees and contractors and the communities we operate within.
Environment We aim to prevent, control and mitigate our impact on the environment and help to educate our workforce and local community on ways to improve resource usage.
Tree plantation in West Africa.
32 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Investing in future generations As the only operating gold mine in Egypt, Centamin The Michael Kriewaldt Scholarship was structured in workplace training and employee development are part conjunction with the Companys founder, Sami of the foundation the Company was built on.
The grant sponsors an outstanding geology very high literacy rate and provides access to a wellmajor student at the University of Alexandria Faculty educated workforce to train in the technical skills of of Science in Egypt, to enrol at the postgraduate modern mining.
Today, over 95% of our workforce at research programme of the geology department of Sukari is Egyptian, operating a Tier 1 global gold mine.
the university for their MSc and or PhD in mining and mineral resources.
How we responded Results To encourage the next generation of geologists, the Company has created two university grants: Today, from a shortlist of eight outstanding candidates, two were offered scholarship funding as part of The Richard Osman Memorial Fund, in memory of The Richard Osman Memorial Fund.
A selection process a friend, colleague and passionate geologist.
for candidates in Egypt is currently underway.
The scholarship offers full financial aid to two outstanding masters students each year at the University of Exeter, Camborne School of Mines in the United Kingdom, pursuing a degree in MSc in Mining and Geology, including practical experience in the field at our operations.
2018 PERFORMANCE 2019 OBJECTIVES Reduced LTIFR by 76% Reduce LTIFR, targeting zero-harm workplace 33% reduction in all environmental incidents Complete 40MW AC solar farm feasibility study subject to Board capital allocation approval in 2019, No major environmental incidents using a lower-risk, modular build and Increased community direct investment implementation approach, starting with 15MW AC Set up scholarship programmes for geology Reduce reliance on fossil fuels students at University of Alexandria, Egypt and at Reduce CO emissions the Camborne School of Mines, Exeter University, 2 United Kingdom see case study Improve operational energy efficiencies: training to improve equipment productivity Report in line with Global Reporting Initiatives Improve water usage efficiency: targeting a Completed competitive tender process for solar 50:50 balanced water circuit developer, appointed Bre-Gen Developed new grievance mechanism Centamin plc Annual report 2018 33
