STRATEGIC REPORT Business model We seek to create long term value for our stakeholders throughout the business cycle.
INPUTS BUSINESS CYCLE These are the The mining business cycle is not a mutually exclusive staged key resources process.
Centamin operates its mine throughout the year, with and relationships continuous investment into results-driven exploration activities that underpin our and sustainability initiatives business model Explore Exploration is at the heart of everything we do, the foundation we are built upon, and will remain our competitive advantage for creating future value and ensuring business continuity.
Our excellent geologists, with the support of technology, systematically and methodically explore our highly prospective West African Natural resources landholding, making discoveries and unlocking resource value.
Today, Centamins global resource is 15.7Moz of measured and indicated mineral resources.
Develop Centamin takes a modular approach to development, maximising cash flow and returns.
Sukari was built over four stages to minimise execution risk and ensure more effective, responsible capital allocation.
After stage one, the operation was Experienced able to fund the next stages of growth.
Today, Sukari is a 12.6Mt per annum workforce and processing operation.
management Mine and process team Preserving the integrity of the asset is core to our decision making.
Maximising operational efficiencies through mining and processing to achieve the optimal gold output, cost effectively.
Sukari is an established large-scale, low-cost open pit, underground and dump leach operation.
Throughout 2018 Sukari continued investing in intellectual capital as key initiatives to maximise efficiencies, productivity and to improve risk assessment.
Strong financial Refine management Our end product is gold dor bars.
All gold production is sent on a weekly basis to a refinery for smelting into bullion.
Sustain Establishing and nurturing a strong social licence to operate is embedded within our decision making.
Centamin has been creating long term value within Dynamic Egypt for three decades, working in partnership with local stakeholders to relationships with develop Egypts modern gold mining industry.
Today, with a mine life in excess key stakeholders of 15 years, Centamin looks forward to creating further value for all stakeholders in the decades ahead by growing production, fiscal contribution, employment opportunity and local investment.
18 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT By nurturing a safe, innovative and responsible operating environment whilst generating significant cash flow and maximising shareholder returns.
LONG TERM VALUE CREATION OUTPUTS The key output of Sharing and reinvesting our value creation with all stakeholders our value creation For employees For shareholders Centamin employs 1,497 people, of Generating reliable shareholder returns Maximising which 94% are employed locally to the EBITDA: US$257.9 million free cash respective asset or administrative office Profit before tax: US$152.7 million flow In addition to earning income, excellent Earnings per share of US6.5 cents on-the-job training and professional Total dividend of US$63.5 million, development is provided including proposed final dividend of First priority is ensuring the workforce US$34.6 million, equivalent to 100% Unlocking have a safe and healthy work of free cash flow value from environment For suppliers the asset US$40.8 million in benefits and portfolio Centamin conducts regular competitive salaries to employees tender processes to ensure mutually fair and reasonable supply contracts For local communities PROCESSES AND Sukaris long life of mine increases the Creating sustainable communities CONTROLS CREATE likelihood of negotiating mutually through investment and employment THE FRAMEWORK beneficial long term supply contracts Implementation of new demand-driven TO DELIVER OUR where appropriate health education and welfare initiative STRATEGY Established a reputation as a safe, Delivering sanitary, unpolluted water ethical, local and international indirect solutions Effective risk employer Aiding and constructing school management Developed a trusted track record for facilities and athletic grounds Disciplined cost controls reliable supply chain engagement, and efficient capital increasing security of the supply chain For governments allocation and social licence to operate Centamin contributes to the national Strong, active fiscus of the countries we operate in by For customers partnerships with way of royalties, taxes and profit share, Regular competitive tender processes countries and contributing to the governments ability with global refiners, to ensure mutually communities we to fund socioeconomic development fair and reasonable terms operate in Group direct payments to governments Centamin mitigates risk profile by Compliance within of US$99.6 million entering into a refining offtake, the legal and regulatory Indirect payments creating mutual currently with Asahi Refining jurisdictions we stakeholder benefit include local Canada Ltd, for 100% of the gold operate in employee and supplier income, Dor bars produced Experienced leadership permits and infrastructure investment Refining and transport charges organisational structure of US$1.5 million Well balanced multi-disciplinary Board ensuring a high standard of corporate governance Centamin plc Annual report 2018 19
