Strategic Report Centrica Business A trusted energy partner for business customers We supply the energy and solutions to help our business customers operate more efficiently and sustainably to achieve commercial success.
How we helped a valued customer to make the most out of saving energy Centrica Business Solutions enabled paper maker Sappi to double its earnings from Demand Side Sappi is a long-standing customer Response DSR, where companies can receive with whom we have built an payments from the grid operator for reducing excellent, close relationship.
Thats energy consumption at peak times.
We are always Sappi is the worlds leading producer of high-quality coated fine paper, making 5.7 million tonnes a year.
Its a very energy-intensive thinking about whats next for the process, so the company cuts its electricity costs by participating business in terms of processes, in DSR programmes.
Thats what Sappi was doing at its combined pulp and paper mill at Lanaken in Belgium.
But the results were disappointing.
Jeroen Verbeeck Sales Manager, Centrica Business Solutions It wasnt getting a high enough return to offset rising electricity costs.
Fortunately, Centrica Business Solutions was able to help.
To earn higher returns, Sappi needed to achieve much faster reaction times just 30 seconds when called on We installed our technology, which enables ultra-fast automated response.
We placed Sappi in a portfolio of providers, which to reduce consumption.
All this while avoiding any impact on day-to-day operations.
reduces the risk of being called upon by the grid when its not convenient.
And we safeguarded paper production by monitoring Our solution focused on the pulp mill.
Because it produces stocks of pulp and making sure they didnt get too low.
pulp which is then held in stock, it can be halted at times The result: greatly increased DSR payments for Sappi with no without affecting paper production downstream.
This technology and portfolio solution allowed us to leverage our flexible 30 processes and to double our annual seconds response time Demand Side Response earnings.
Christiaan Geers Manager RM Utilities, Sappi Lanaken Zero impact on production 100% increase in DSR payments 32 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 420,000 annual cost savings 23% reduction in CO 2 15 years energy performance contract The partnership with Centrica Business Solutions gives us the peace of mind that our energy needs are being taken care of while we concentrate on our main job of looking after patients and improving care.
George Atkinson Forging a partnership Associate Director of Estates, Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in patient care How we helped a major hospital to cut its energy costs and meet tough new environmental targets.
Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust is a large, acute general hospital on the south coast of England.
Saddled with ageing equipment and a maintenance backlog, it was struggling to manage its energy needs.
But by working in partnership with Centrica Business Solutions, the Trust was able to make major upgrades which will cut costs and energy consumption, while releasing funds for investment in the most important thing patient care.
The 6.7 million project included a new Combined Heat and Power CHP unit, new standby generator and controls, steam generators and boilers, an upgraded air handling unit, and improved lighting both internally and externally.
Some of the results were immediate.
Overall energy demand at the hospital fell by 29%.
The project is expected to deliver annual cost savings of 420,000, and a carbon reduction of 23%.
And the savings are expected to grow every year in line with fuel costs and carbon targets.
Poole Hospital now has a fit-for-purpose energy infrastructure that it can depend on for decades to come.
Whats more, we handed over the project on time and with no interruption to clinical services.
The challenge was to deliver the project efficiently and safely which Find out more on Distributed Energy: wedid.
We didnt look on the scheme Powering the future of healthcare at centrica.
com poweringhealthcare purely as a business venture, but more as a partnership where we could help the Trust to achieve its goals.
Paul Murray Account Manager, Centrica Business Solutions Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33
