Strategic Report Strategic Report I Digital Transformation Demonstrating the next phase of our customer-focused strategy We are transforming our offerings and services through technology and innovation to deliver for the changing needs of our customers and long-term shareholder value.
At Centrica, we are now in the second phase of our There is clear evidence that we are transition into a customer-facing, international energy starting to build momentum in our and services company.
This is what we set out customer-facing businesses by to be when we unveiled our strategy in 2015 and providing the type of products and we are beginning to demonstrate that transition.
Our propositions and services are becoming more services that our customers value.
digitised, more decentralised and are focused on Iain Conn satisfying the changing needs of our customers Group Chief Executive as we help them to reduce their carbon footprint.
In the following pages, you can explore some of the case studies Advances in technology are putting more choice and control in which demonstrate our transition and show where we have tried the hands of our customers.
That means our relationship with to make our purpose a reality in 2018.
They provide key snapshots them is changing.
Our role now is to be more of an enabler as with our customer Sappi, a leading international paper maker of the work we do across our three business divisions Centrica Consumer, Centrica Business and Exploration & Production.
and a partner our work with Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust shows partnership in action.
As we continue to refocus our business towards the customer, were acutely conscious that advances in technology are creating Our changing role and digital transformation mean that it is new possibilities, almost by the day.
So, were undertaking a essential for us to invest in the energy solutions of tomorrow digital transformation of our business to make sure that we and help our customers to reduce the amount of carbon use technology effectively, both for the benefit of our customers they generate through new propositions and the application and to make ourselves as efficient as possible.
The work of Centrica Innovations, our start-up investment arm, in developing an electric vehicle Our aims in doing this are to improve customer service through charging system showcased opposite is one example innovation theres a great example of this in our Home Warranty of how we are doing this.
of America case study : to provide greater peace of mind for our customers, such as our Hive family of connected home products: We work in a very challenging market.
But this is also a very to increase our operational efficiency: to improve our digital exciting time of change for the energy sector.
Our people are fluency including digital skills training for every employee: to use inspired and motivated by the new possibilities for serving data more effectively in creating real-time insights: and to put in our customers better.
Our colleagues care and commitment place a common, robust technology foundation across the Group.
for our customers is demonstrated by how they went the extra mile during the Beast from the East.
28 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Investing in tomorrows energy solutions for our customers As technology plays an increasingly important role in meeting the needs of our customers, Centrica Innovations is incubating the new ideas which will become a part of their everyday lives.
Centrica Innovations is backing an electric vehicle charging system which is already being used by 200,000 drivers around the world.
Electric vehicles EV are the future of road transport and are expected to account for one fifth of all new car sales by 2030.
So, its vital to create the networks and power infrastructure for drivers to recharge their vehicles conveniently as important as petrol stations are for the cars and vans of today.
We see this as a potentially profitable area, and thats one of the reasons why Centrica Innovations CI, our investment arm which specialises in incubating start-ups and innovative solutions, has invested in Driivz, a business which has developed world-class software for managing EV charging systems.
By combining Centricas ability to install and manage charging networks with the state-of-the-art Driivz software, we can now provide our customers with one of the most effective, end-to-end vehicle charging solutions on the market.
We plan to make it even stronger by integrating some of our existing capabilities in system monitoring and power load management with the Driivz system.
The electric vehicle market is accelerating and Driivz gives us a powerful software tool to manage, operate and maintain charging infrastructure.
By incorporating some of our other distributed energy technologies, we will be able to offer one of the most comprehensive charging solutions in the market.
200,000 Charles Cameron vehicles already using Director of Technology & Engineering, Centrica the Driivz system Find out more on Driivz centrica.
com driivzinvestment 20% EV share of new car sales by 2030 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29
