Governance Directors and Corporate Governance Report At Centrica we recognise the importance of effective corporate governance in supporting the long-term success and sustainability of our business.
Centrica engaged with the Financial Dear Shareholder Reporting Councils FRC public I am once again pleased to confirm that consultation in 2017 and 2018 on the your company has fully complied with proposed revisions to the 2016 Code.
the principles and provisions of the 2016 The Board welcomes the new reporting UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 legislation around stakeholder disclosure Code throughout the year.
The pages and executive remuneration and the that follow will illustrate how your Board Corporate Governance Code revisions ensures that Centrica has effective that have been implemented.
Many of corporate governance in place to the initiatives being promoted by the FRC, support the creation of long-term including those relating to corporate value for shareholders and for culture and values, diversity and inclusion, stakeholders more generally.
strengthening the stakeholder voice and Corporate governance adopting and operating appropriate At Centrica we recognise the importance remuneration structures, are areas of Rick Haythornthwaite of effective corporate governance in focus for the Board in 2019 and beyond.
Chairman supporting the long-term success and The Directors and Corporate Governance sustainability of our business.
Sound Report which follows explains how we corporate governance enables clear and are approaching these important issues.
consistent delegation of authority from the Board refreshment and Board to senior management and beyond in order to promote robust, informed succession planning and transparent decision-making.
It also The Board and the Nominations promotes effective stewardship to ensure Committee devoted considerable time the delivery of strategic objectives and to succession planning during the year.
We strive to maintain As part of a structured and continuous a robust and effective governance process of Board refreshment, 2018 saw a framework which supports the application number of changes to the Board.
Centrica and execution of our strategy and remains embraces the importance of diversity and consistent with Our Values and behaviours.
inclusion in all Board recruitment and The Board sets the right tone for the supports the recommendations of the organisation including the right culture, Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews values and behaviours that are intended in relation to gender and ethnic diversity.
to protect and promote the long-term Despite our intention to appoint females success of the business.
There has to the Board and the search criteria being been considerable focus on corporate sufficiently wide so as to encourage a governance recently and we expect diverse range of candidates, no females this to continue.
were appointed to the Board during the Disappointingly, well publicised failures year.
However, we announced in January in corporate culture, governance and 2019 the appointment of Pam Kaur as performance, again dominate the media a Non-Executive Director.
Businesses should be held Lesley Knox who stepped down from to account for these failings, but it is the Board at the end of 2017. important to recognise that these failures are few in number.
Considerable progress has been made in improving standards of corporate governance across the business sector in recent years.
66 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Jeff Bell, Group Chief Financial Officer, stood down from the Board in October and in July, Mark Hanafin, Chief Executive, Governance at a glance Centrica Business, announced his retirement.
I am pleased to The Board is responsible for promoting the overall welcome their successors, Chris OShea and Richard Hookway, success of the Company.
In doing so, it delegates certain who were appointed to the Board in November and December, responsibilities to Board Committees and executive respectively.
In December, we announced that Mark Hodges, management.
Details of the Board Committees and their Chief Executive, Centrica Consumer would be stepping down activities during the year are set out on pages 80 to 91. from the Board in February 2019.
I am delighted to welcome The Board delegates authority to the Group Chief his successor, Sarwjit Sambhi, an internal candidate, to the Executive for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day Board in March 2019.
I would like to thank Jeff, Mark and management of the Group.
The Board oversees, guides Mark for their significant contributions to Centrica.
and challenges executive management in the execution During the year, a search process was initiated for a Non-Executive of these activities.
Director to succeed Margherita Della Valle, Chairman of the Audit The Board is supported in its role by Centricas Committee, who will step down from the Board in 2019 having Governance Framework, which is set out on page 73. completed her nine-year term in office.
I am pleased to report The five sub-committees of the Board provide detailed that Kevin OByrne will join the Board in May 2019 and will focus to different areas of the Boards work, with their replace Margherita as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
specific responsibilities and authority set out in their Having served as a member of the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference.
The Board regularly reviews the since 1 January 2011, Margherita stepped down from the remit, authority, composition and Terms of Reference Committee with effect from 17 October 2018 and was of each Committee.
2016 UK Corporate Governance Code In May 2018 I announced my intention to step down from the Board during the course of the next 12 months after serving Effective corporate governance provides an essential approximately six years.
I am delighted that, following a robust foundation for the long-term success of the Company.
process led by Stephen Hester, our Senior Independent Director, This report sets out the key elements of Centricas corporate I will be succeeded by Charles Berry who joined our Board in governance arrangements, including how we have sought October.
Charless breadth of international energy and engineering to apply the principles and provisions of the 2016 Code knowledge and a long track record of successful leadership of during the year.
The Board confirms that, up to the date businesses across industrial, minerals, telecommunications and of this Report, it fully complied with the 2016 Code.
retail sectors over the last 20 years, stand him in an excellent The 2016 Code and associated guidance are available position to succeed me and to lead the Centrica Board.
Charles on the Financial Reporting Council website at frc.
also has extensive experience in both the UK and the US of the The index on page 111 sets out where to find each of the regulatory framework of the energy and service markets.
I would required disclosures in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 like to thank Stephen for his leadership of the process to identify and Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
1. and appoint Charles to the role and I wish Charles and the Centrica Board every success.
Culture and Values The Board recognises the importance of its role in setting Board effectiveness review the tone of Centricas culture and values.
Our Code, which The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its effectiveness.
replaced Centricas former Business Principles and codes Having undertaken internal evaluations in the previous two years of conduct, was launched globally on 31 January 2018. and in accordance with the 2016 Code, an externally facilitated During the year, the Board had a number of opportunities evaluation was completed in 2017 18.
The results of this review to engage both formally and informally with colleagues from are set out on page 77. across the business enabling a better understanding of the extent to which Our Values care, delivery, collaboration, Conclusion agility and courage have been embedded throughout the The Directors and Corporate Governance Report which Group.
Our Code along with Our Values underpin everything follows has been prepared in order to provide shareholders that we do.
with a comprehensive understanding of Centricas governance framework under the 2016 Code, the UK Listing Rules and Looking forward the Disclosure and Transparency Guidance.
I hope that you The Board intends to maintain high standards of corporate find the Report informative and engaging.
governance across the Group and believes this is integral to the delivery of our strategy.
The Board remains focused on creating sustainable long-term value for the benefit of Rick Haythornthwaite our shareholders and stakeholders.
Chairman 20 February 2019 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Full biographies can be found at Chairman Disclosure Remuneration Denotes C DC RC of the Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman centrica.
com board Audit Nominations Safety, Health, Environment, AC NC SC Committee Committee Security & Ethics Committee Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2013.
He was appointed Chairman of the Board on Rick Haythornthwaite Iain Conn Chris OShea 1January 2014 and was Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He stepped down from the Board on 20 February 2019.
Skills and experience Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the energy industry and has significant board experience, both as an executive and non-executive director.
He led the rescue of Invensys from 2001 to 2005 and the defence, turnaround and subsequent Charles Berry Margherita Della Valle Joan Gillman sale of Blue Circle Industries from 1997 to 2001.
He has served on the boards of Network Rail as chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and Land Securities as a non-executive director.
External appointments Chairman of the board of MasterCard International, QIO Technologies and Arc International and an advisory partner at Moelis & Company.
Richard Hookway Stephen Hester Mark Hodges Iain Conn Group Chief Executive Iain was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the Disclosure Committee.
Skills and experience Pam Kaur Carlos Pascual Steve Pusey Iain possesses a deep understanding of the energy sector built up over a lifetime in the industry and has demonstrated strong commitment to customers, safety and technology.
Iain was previously BPs chief executive, downstream BPs refining and marketing division a position he held for seven years.
Iain was a board member of BP for 10 years from 2004 and had Scott Wheway previously held a number of senior roles throughout the organisation in trading, exploration and production and the management of corporate functions such as safety, marketing, technology and human resources.
External appointments Non-executive director of BT Group plc.
68 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chris OShea Charles Berry Margherita Della Valle Group Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chris was appointed Group Chief Charles joined the Board as a Non-Executive Margherita joined the Board on 1 January Financial Officer on 1 November 2018.
Director on 31 October 2018 and was 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit appointed Chairman of the Board Committee.
Margherita will step down Skills and experience and Nominations Committee on from the Board on 12 May 2019.
Chris is an experienced listed company 21 February 2019.
Skills and experience chief financial officer with considerable Skills and experience experience of complex, multi-national Margherita brings considerable corporate organisations, not only in the energy sector Charles brings a wealth of international finance and accounting experience and but also in technology-led engineering energy and engineering knowledge and she has a sound background in marketing.
Prior to joining a track record of successful leadership She was chief financial officer of Centrica, Chris was group chief financial of businesses across the industrial, Vodafones European region from April officer of both Smiths Group plc and minerals, telecommunications and retail 2007 to October 2010 and chief financial Vesuvius plc, and a non-executive director sectors.
He also has extensive experience, officer of Vodafone Italy from 2004 to 2007. of Foseco India Ltd, an Indian-listed in both the UK and US, of the regulatory Previously she worked for Omnitel Pronto supplier to the foundry industry.
From 2006 framework of the energy and service Italia and held various consumer marketing to 2012 Chris held various senior finance markets.
Charles is chairman of The Weir positions in business analytics and roles with BG Group plc, including chief Group PLC.
He previously held chairman customer base management before financial officer of Europe and Central Asia, roles at Senior plc, Drax Group plc, EAGA moving into finance.
prior to which he held a number of plc and Thus Group plc.
Charles has also External appointments senior roles with Royal Dutch Shell plc held executive roles at Scottish Power plc Group chief financial officer of Vodafone in the UK, the US and Nigeria, and with and Pilkington plc.
Group Plc and member of the Ernst & Young.
External appointments Chairman of The Weir Group PLC and Chairman of the Tax Committee of the member of the steering group of the 100 Group of UK Finance Directors.
Joan Gillman Richard Hookway Stephen Hester Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Chief Executive, Centrica Business Richard was appointed Chief Executive, Centrica Business on 1 December 2018.
Joan joined the Board on 11 October 2016.
Stephen joined the Board on 1 June 2016 Skills and experience and is the Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience Richard worked in the energy sector Skills and experience Joan is a former executive vice president for 35 years at BP plc.
His last role was of Time Warner Cable, as well as chief Stephen has wide-ranging experience, serving as group chief operating officer operating officer, Time Warner Cable particularly in customer-facing businesses, forGlobal Business Services and IT.
Media and president, Time Warner Cable together with recognised expertise in Prior to this Richard spent seven years as Media LLC.
Prior to its acquisition by transforming business performance.
CFO for BPs Downstream division which Charter Communications, Time Warner He has a deep knowledge of operating includes customer-facing businesses, Cable was the second-largest cable within highly regulated businesses and refining and marketing and the P&L for company in the United States, operating over 30 years experience in financial BPs oil trading activities.
He previously in 29 states and generating over $23 billion services and FTSE 100 companies.
held a number of senior commercial roles in annual revenue.
Joan led one of the Stephen was previously chief executive both in the UK and in North America companys three operating divisions, officer of Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc including head of the Natural Gas Liquids doubling revenues and overseeing the where he led their largest-ever corporate business based in Houston and the companys big data strategy.
Commercial and Industrial Marketing External appointments External appointments business for Europe.
He also held positions Director of Airgain, Inc. InterDigital, Inc. Group chief executive of RSA Insurance in trading, exploration and production, and Cumulus Media, Inc. Group plc.
petrochemicals and in group functions.
External appointments Non-executive director of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Group Limited representing Centrica.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report Mark Hodges Pam Kaur Carlos Pascual Chief Executive, Centrica Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Consumer Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015 Pam joined the Board on 1 February 2019.
Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015. and will step down on 28 February 2019.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Pam has extensive experience in audit, Carlos has held a number of senior Mark brings a strong understanding of business, compliance, finance and risk positions in the energy industry as well as the UK consumer market and a track management, having previously held being a prominent public figure in energy record in improving business performance.
various senior roles at global financial geopolitics and economic and commercial He is experienced in working in a institutions including Citigroup, Lloyds development.
Between 2011 and 2014 regulated environment, driving significant TSB, the Royal Bank of Scotland and Carlos established and directed the US improvements in customer service and Deutsche Bank, and has worked with State Departments Energy Resource managing efficiency, offer innovation, regulators and supervisory boards across Bureau.
Until August 2014 Carlos was major IT and change projects.
Pam has an MBA in finance special envoy and coordinator for group chief executive officer of Towergate and a BCom Hons from Panjab international energy affairs, acting as Partnership.
Prior to this he spent over 20 University in India and is a qualified senior adviser to the US Secretary of State years with Norwich Union and Aviva plc in chartered accountant.
He has also served as a variety of finance, planning and strategy US ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
He was a member of Avivas board External appointments and executive committee.
A Group Managing Director and Group Head of Internal Audit at HSBC Holdings Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on External appointments plc and Chair of the Financial Services Global Energy Policy, Columbia University Director of Energy UK representing Faculty Board.
and senior vice president for global energy Centrica.
Steve Pusey Scott Wheway 2018 Board changes Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jeff Bell stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2018 Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015 Scott joined the Board on 1 May 2016 Charles Berry joined the and is Chairman of the Safety, Health, and is Chairman of the Remuneration Board on 31 October 2018 Environment, Security & Ethics Committee.
Chris OShea joined the Skills and experience Skills and experience Board on 1 November 2018 Steve has a wealth of international Scott is a senior business leader with a Mark Hanafin stepped down from experience as a senior customer-facing mix of deep retail and consumer expertise.
the Board on 30 November 2018 business technology leader.
He has a long He has considerable knowledge gained track record in the telecommunications in both the retail and insurance sectors, Richard Hookway joined the industry, in both the wireline and wireless together with a strong understanding Board on 1 December 2018 sectors, and in business applications and of operating within highly regulated solutions.
Steve has worked for Vodafone, businesses.
Scott worked in retail for 2019 Board changes Nortel and British Telecom and is a almost 30 years both in the UK and Pam Kaur joined the Board on graduate of the Advanced Management internationally and has over 10 years 1 February 2019 Program at Harvard University.
experience as a non-executive director within the financial services industry.
Rick Haythornthwaite stepped down External appointments External appointments from the Board on 20 February 2019 Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc. Chairman of AXA UK plc and senior Mark Hodges will step down from independent director of Santander UK plc.
the Board on 28 February 2019 Sarwjit Sambhi will join the Board on 1 March 2019 Margherita Della Valle will step down from the Board on 12 May 2019 Kevin OByrne will join the Board on 13 May 2019 The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for reappointment at each Annual Read more about the Board Changes in the Nominations Committee General Meeting AGM.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Report on Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by Pages 88 to 89 shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
70 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board Composition Board diversity by gender by nationality by tenure Male 83% American 17% 03 years 43% Female 17% British 75% 36 years 43% Italian 8% 69 years 7% 10 years 7% Data as at 31 December 2018 Skills and experience Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Energy Sector Geopolitics Emerging Markets Financial Services Technology Engineering Safety Consumer services Government Regulatory Finance M&A data as at 31 December 2018 Board attendance Joint Audit 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nominations SHESEC SHESEC Disclosure Number of meetings 11 4 8 11 5 3 Rick Haythornthwaite 11 11 10 10 Charles Berry 2 2 2 2 Iain Conn 11 11 10 10 2 Jeff Bell 8 9 7 9 2 Margherita Della Valle 7 11 4 4 5 6 6 11 3 5 2 2 2 Joan Gillman 11 11 10 11 5 5 2 2 Mark Hanafin 10 10 Stephen Hester 11 11 4 4 2 2 11 11 2 Mark Hodges 9 11 Richard Hookway 1 1 Chris OShea 2 2 1 1 2 Carlos Pascual 10 11 7 8 9 11 5 5 2 2 2 Steve Pusey 10 11 4 4 11 11 5 5 2 2 2 Scott Wheway 9 11 8 8 11 11 5 5 2 2 Grant Dawson 10 10 1 During the year there were 11 Board meetings, of which nine were scheduled meetings and two were called at short notice.
2 All absences were due to Directors having unavoidable diary clashes.
3 Rick Haythornthwaite did not attend the Nominations Committee meeting that discussed his successor.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report Senior Executives Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com seniorexecutives Charles Cameron Grant Dawson Director of Technology Group General Counsel & Engineering and & Company Secretary Centrica Innovations Charles was appointed Director of Technology Grant was appointed Group General Counsel & Engineering on 1 January 2016 and Chairman & Company Secretary in February 1997 of Centrica Innovations on 1 May 2017.
Charles Cameron and will retire from the Company at the Skills and experience end of March 2019.
Charles has extensive technology and Skills and experience engineering experience and has held corporate Grant joined British Gas plc in October 1996 roles in marketing, planning and M&A.
Before and has been Group General Counsel & joining Centrica, he was head of technology, Company Secretary of Centrica plc since the downstream at BP plc and was a member demerger of British Gas plc on 17 February 1997. of the downstream executive team.
He was called to the Bar in 1982 and has spent Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 years most of his career in industry, joining the legal with the French Institute of Petroleum and their department of Racal Electronics plc in 1984, Grant Dawson catalyst, technology licensing and engineering then STC plc as legal adviser in 1986 until it was service business, Axens.
taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom Limited.
Between 1991 and 1996, he was the associate general counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Jill Shedden, MBE Mike Young Group Human Resources Director Group Chief Information Officer Jill was appointed Group Director, Human Mike was appointed Group Chief Information Jill Shedden Resources on 1 July 2011.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate in 1988 Mike brings a wide range of experience in and has since held a wide range of senior HR managing global information systems functions roles across the Group.
Prior to her appointment in partnership with customer-facing units and as Group HR Director Jill was HR Director in using big data and digital technologies to British Gas Business, British Gas Energy and drive revenue growth and improve the customer Centrica Energy.
In 2017 Jill was awarded an experience.
Before joining Centrica he was MBE for services to women and equality in group chief information officer with the media recognition of her work with, amongst other and digital marketing company Dentsu Mike Young organisations, the Womens Business Council.
External appointments Non-executive director Thames Water Utilities Limited.
2019 Senior Executive changes Grant Dawson will retire from the Company on 31 March 2019 Justine Campbell will become Group General Counsel & Company Secretary andmember of the Disclosure Committee on 1 April 2019 72 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Framework The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
With due regard to the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, it provides leadership and direction including establishing the Groups culture, values and ethics, setting strategy and overseeing its implementation, ensuring only acceptable risks are taken and being responsible for corporate governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
Matters reserved exclusively for the Board There are certain key responsibilities that the Board does not delegate and which are reserved for its consideration.
The full Schedule of Matters Reserved is available on our website, butkey features include: the development of strategy and major policies: approving interim dividend payments and recommending final dividend payments: and approving the annual operating plan, Financial Statements and major acquisitions and disposals: the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
Read more about our Read more on how we Read more on Our Strategy Stakeholder Engagement on manage our Risks on and Our Business Model on Pages 52 to 55 Pages 41 to 51 Pages 14 to 17 Board composition and roles Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Responsible for the leadership and management Responsible for the executive leadership Responsible for providing strategic financial of the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for and day-to-day management of the Company, leadership of the Company and day-to-day promoting high ethical standards, ensuring the to ensure the delivery of the strategy agreed management of the financefunction.
effective contribution of all Directors and, with by the Board.
support from the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, best practice in corporate governance.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Group Executive Directors Company Secretary Responsible for contributing sound Acts as a sounding board for the Responsible for executive leadership Adviser to the Chairman and the judgement and objectivity to the Chairman and serves as a trusted and day-to-day management of Board on matters of corporate Boards deliberations and overall intermediary for the otherDirectors, relevant business units in support governance, induction, training decision-making process, providing as well as shareholders as required.
of the Group Chief Executive and and the efficient management of constructive challenge, and monitoring the delivery of the strategy agreed Board and Committee meetings.
the Executive Directors delivery of the by the Board.
Responsible for ensuring the strategy within the Boards risk and effectiveness of Centricas governance structure.
Committees Audit Disclosure Nominations Remuneration Safety, Health, Committee Committee Committee Committee Environment, Security and Ethics Committee For more information For more information For more information For more information For more information Pages 80 to 84 Page 87 Pages 88 to 89 Pages 90 to 109 Pages 85 to 86 The role and responsibilities of each Committee are set out in its Terms of Reference found on the Companys website at centrica.
com boardcommittees Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report In 2018, these discussions included: Board meetings The Board held 11 meetings in 2018, seven of which were Strategic reviews for Connected Home: fide&P: EM&T: UKB: delivery services growth in UK and NA: in person and four by scheduled telephone conferences.
Each year the Board seeks to combine one or two meetings Spirit Energy Nova Field Development: with visits to the Groups operations and in 2018 visited North Group Brand Architecture and Reputation: America Business in March and Bord Gis Energy, Dublin, IT, Technology and Innovation: inSeptember.
Details of these visits can be found on page 76. the Competitive Landscape: During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Exploration & Production portfolio and pipeline: Chairman, met frequently without management present.
North America Site Visit review North America progress against risks issues identified in Internal Audit: Board activity Board Evaluation: During the year, the Board considers a comprehensive programme of regular matters covering operational and financial performance Process Safety: reporting, strategic reviews and updates and various governance People, Culture and Capability: reports and approvals.
In addition, each Board meeting features Governance, Risk & Regulation: and deep dives into a specific operation or topic.
Our governance in action Centricas governance framework is designed to support timely, effective decision-making throughout the organisation.
The effectiveness and rigour of this system of governance is evident in the process the Board followed before approving Spirit Energys acquisition of 50% of Hurricane Energys Greater Warwick Area, part of the Rona Ridge fractured basin in the West of Shetland: strong and aligned leadership from the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive in convening meetings of the Board at short notice and facilitating open, yet focused, debate and appropriate challenge: flexibility and speed of decision-making with two additional and unscheduled Board meetings held on successive days and the transaction signed and completed within a month.
This enabled Spirit Energy to acquire a rig, for the well programme, for site surveys to be undertaken and for long lead-time items to be procured in time for drilling to commence in the first quarter of 2019: a clear understanding of the strategic rationale for the proposed acquisition and of the risks associated with the project and an evaluation of alternative investment opportunities: rigorous challenge and independent oversight from the Non-Executive Directors who brought diverse experiences and an external perspective to the discussions and who constructively challenged the strategic rationale for the proposed investment: and timely, accurate and well-considered information and support from the Executive and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
This transaction is expected to significantly strengthen Spirit Energy and will enable it to participate in the early phases of resource maturation in one of the last known world-class oil development opportunities in the UK.
Read more about Drilling for the future West of Shetland on Page 34 74 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors independence and conflicts All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be Non-Executive Director induction independent against the criteria in the UK Corporate Governance On joining the Board as Non-Executive Director and Code 2016 the 2016 Code and free from any business interest Chairman designate, Charles Berry was provided with which could materially interfere with the exercise of their a comprehensive induction programme which was judgement.
In addition, the Board is satisfied that each designed to ensure that he gained a full understanding Non-Executive Director is able to dedicate the necessary of the Group, including the business, culture and values, amount of time to the Companys affairs.
strategy, markets, governance and financial position.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the This programme is set out below.
Companys Articles of Association, directors are required to Centricas business report actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board for One-to-one meetings were held with Executive Directors, consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation.
If such conflicts other Non-Executive Directors and members of the exist, directors recuse themselves from consideration of the Executive Committee to discuss Centricas business, relevant subject matter.
The Company maintains a schedule strategy and operations.
of authorised conflicts of interest which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Site visits were undertaken to a number of Centricas principal businesses including UK Home Staines, UK Directors induction Business Leicester, Connected Home London, Energy All new directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive Marketing & Trading London, North America Business induction programme which is led by the Chairman and supported New Jersey and Distributed Energy & Power New by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
This programme is tailored Jersey.
Further visits to Group operations are scheduled.
to meet each individuals needs and is structured and designed Meetings were held with Centricas key external advisers to ensure that new directors are equipped with the requisite including its brokers, Goldman Sachs and UBS, and its information and knowledge about the Group and its markets external auditors, Deloitte: and to contribute meaningfully and effectively to Board discussions Charles also met with other stakeholders including as soon as possible.
The programme includes briefings from customers and major shareholders.
members of the Executive, and management teams covering key areas of the business, an overview of the Groups Risk Board and governance structure Management processes, the Internal Audit function and the Meetings were held with the Chairman of the Board corporate governance framework within Centrica.
The induction and the Chairs of the Boards principal Committees: programme also includes a series of site visits for new directors Charles was briefed on the findings and to familiarise themselves with the Groups businesses.
recommendations of the latest Board and Committee On completion of the induction programme, all new directors effectiveness review.
should have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the Centricas Group functions business to effectively contribute to strategic discussions Meetings were held with various senior managers and the oversight of the Group.
of the Group to discuss: Training and development for directors Group strategy: Ongoing training is provided for all directors, including formal and Centricas people strategy its culture, organisation informal briefings, meetings with management and visits to the and engagement and remuneration architecture: Groups operations.
As part of this approach, two formal insight Marketing and Brand Architecture: and training sessions are held each year.
In July 2018, a session Legal and Regulatory issues facing the Group: was held which focused on the Groups pension schemes and, Health and Safety: specifically, the financial position of the UK defined benefit pension scheme and the investment, funding and security strategy Investor Relations: triennial review.
This was followed in November by a presentation Internal Audit and Risks: and on commodity and non-commodity risk in the energy portfolio.
In addition, the directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, It is essential for a Non-Executive Director who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, to gain a thorough knowledge and on corporate governance matters.
Directors are also able to seek understanding of the business to make independent professional advice at the Companys expense in a valuable contribution.
The induction respect of their duties.
programme has provided me with an excellent start in gaining the knowledge, information and insight on Centrica that I need to make an effective contribution as Chairman and in the boardroom.
Charles Berry Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate Appointed 31 October 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report The conference considers ideas for the potential opportunities, Board diversity risks and actions over the next three years.
In particular, the Board Centrica recognises the benefits of diversity and inclusion discussed plans to deliver growth in key business units such as in all its forms, at Board level and throughout the Group.
Connected Home, Distributed Energy & Power and our in-home As at 31 December 2018, 17% of the Board were women and services businesses.
They also evaluated proposals for improving comprised directors from the UK, US and Italy with a wide range how we deliver for customers in our various energy supply and of backgrounds and expertise.
Following the appointment of asset based businesses.
Valuable insights were gained from the Pam Kaur on 1 February 2019 and as at the date of this Report, conference and these were subsequently used to update business the percentage of women on the Board has increased to 25%.
Centrica supports the recommendations of the HamptonAlexander and Parker Reviews in relation to gender and ethnic Site visits diversity and is continuing to develop the skills, experience While the bulk of the Boards work is conducted around the and knowledge of a diverse talent pipeline.
Our Nominations boardroom table, Directors recognise the importance and Committee is dedicated to ensuring and promoting a diverse benefits gained by visiting the Groups operations.
During 2018, blend of skills, backgrounds and nationalities on the Board and the Board visits included Centricas operations in the US New further details on the Committees activities in this regard are York in March and the Republic of Ireland Dublin in September.
set out in the Nominations Committee report on pages 88 to 89.
In March 2018, the Board visited Centricas North America Business headquarters in New Jersey.
The visit comprised a Read more about our employee diversity on scheduled Board meeting and discussions with the North America Page 62 Business leadership team on strategy and performance.
It gave the Board an opportunity to understand the root causes of the Board Planning Conference performance issues the business faced in 2017 and to satisfy Each year Centricas Board meets for two days to review, discuss, themselves that the enhancements to the control environment debate and approve the Groups strategy.
This is both an were appropriate.
opportunity for the Board to reflect on progress made to date and In September 2018, the Board visited Bord Gis in Dublin.
helps shape Centricas plans for the coming years.
It also provides The visit comprised a scheduled Board meeting and discussions an opportunity for the Board to discuss and challenge proposed with the Board Gis leadership team on strategy and performance.
and alternative investment choices, growth options and portfolio In addition, the visit provided the Board with an opportunity to moves, as well as providing a forum for the Board to assess meet people involved with Bord Giss operation, ranging from whether or not the Group has achieved the right balance of a senior external stakeholder to members of staff with significant challenge and conservatism in its strategic ambitions.
The Board discussed the strong Ahead of the Board Planning Conference this year the Board performance of the business since its acquisition in 2014, and was provided with a comprehensive set of supporting information.
the way that Bord Gis is leveraging its position within Centrica This included information on: as well as contributing to the overall Group.
Particular topics that the key external trends impacting Centrica and our markets: were showcased were Bord Giss customer-centric operational approach and its sector-leading customer loyalty scheme.
the possible impacts Brexit may have on the Group: the proposed strategic plans for our Consumer, Business and Asset divisions: how technology is impacting, and will impact, our markets and how we are responding: and our progress in deploying digital technologies to better serve our customers and drive efficiency.
During the Board Planning Conference, the Group Executive and senior business leaders presented their strategic plans for each business area.
These plans were reviewed and challenged by the Non-Executive Directors who contributed insights and perspectives drawing on their diverse backgrounds and business experiences.
Specific time was also set aside in the agenda to provide for a discussion of: the strategic choices and issues for each business area: the resulting financial outlook expected for the Group: and the capabilities people, process and technologies required to deliver the next phase of Centricas strategy.
76 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board Evaluation Evaluation of the Board and its Committees The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve its performance.
The performance and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is subject to formal review through the annual evaluation process.
In accordance with the 2016 Code, Centricas annual evaluation of Board effectiveness is facilitated by an independent third-party at least once every three years.
As we reported last year, for 2017 18 an independent third party evaluation was conducted by Independent Audit IA.
The process that was followed for this review and the conclusions of this evaluation, are set out below.
2017 18 Performance Action plan agreed Evaluation Process evaluation outcomes for 2018 19 Stage 1: Each Director and the The 2017 18 performance Review the Board meeting Group General Counsel & programme to ensure that the review highlighted the Company Secretary completed Boards attention is focused strength in the composition a detailed online questionnaire on the most material issues and the diverse experience produced by IA facing the Group and expertise of the Board, which has undergone Responsibility: Chairman and significant change in recent Group General Counsel Stage 2: IA conducted a review of years to enable it to support & Company Secretary Board and Committee papers Centricas strategic direction.
In discussing the findings of the review, the Board Review and enhance Board considered its performance Stage 3: Interviews were held with papers and presentations to each member of the Board and generally and concluded that promote high quality input, debate, certain members of the Executive the Board and its Committees support and challenge at Board Committee including the continued to discharge their meetings Group General Counsel duties and responsibilities & Company Secretary Responsibility: Chairman and effectively.
Group General Counsel A number of opportunities for & Company Secretary improvement in the way the Stage 4: IA attended and Board operates were also observed meetings of the Board identified and these are set and Committees in February 2018 Review the use of operational out under the action plan Key Performance Indicators in agreed for 2018 19.
Board reports to enhance the level and clarity of insight provided to the Board Stage 5: The results of Stages 1 to4 were collated and analysed by Responsibility: IA and a report was prepared Group Chief Financial Officer anddiscussed with the Chairman Consider whether further Stage 6: The results were discussion on business presented and discussed by the performance should Board at its meeting in March be incorporated into future 2018.
An action plan, listing areas Board agendas of focus from the 2017 18 evaluation, was agreed Responsibility: Group Chief Financial Officer Chairmans performance Individual performance The Senior Independent Director, Stephen Hester, conducted The Chairman held performance meetings with each Director the evaluation of the Chairmans performance through a series to discuss their individual contribution and performance over the of individual discussions with Directors and Senior Executives.
year and their training and development needs.
Following these Stephen then discussed the feedback and areas of development meetings, the Chairman confirmed that each Director continued with the Chairman.
to make an effective contribution to the Board and the Company.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Governance I Directors and Corporate Governance Report Shareholder engagement The Board is committed to maintaining open channels of Workforce engagement communication with all of the Companys stakeholders.
The Board recognises that the success of the long term An important part of this is providing a clear explanation of the strategy to transition the Company to customer-facing Companys strategy and objectives, and ensuring feedback is businesses depends on a fully engaged workforce acknowledged, considered and, where appropriate, acted upon.
As a critical step, the Board expanded its commitment to the employees by appointing a Meetings, roadshows and conferences Non-Executive Director, Joan Gillman, to the role of We typically offer meetings with senior management to our major Employee Champion.
Joan brings to the role wide-ranging institutional shareholders twice a year, following the Companys experience in leadership and operations in the media and Preliminary and Interim Results.
These meetings are attended communications sector and fully understands and supports by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial the importance of engagement, teamwork and diversity.
Officer, and also sometimes divisional Chief Executives, and are In 2018, Joan undertook a review of key employee matters intended to ensure shareholders have the opportunity to hear and during the year participated in Board visits and directly from management on the Companys performance and employee sessions in Dublin, England and the US, two progress.
In addition, senior management are also available to dozen 1:1s, Yam Jam a collaborative online employee meet on an ad hoc basis with major shareholders if requested, communication tool and listening sessions with employees.
while management and or Investor Relations attend a number The following summary of key topics were discussed of investor conferences throughout the year, giving shareholders at length: further opportunity to meet and get updates directly from how to define the Employee Champion role: Company representatives.
what defines success: In April, our largest investors and leading proxy advisers how employees can best share their ideas or feedback: and were invited to attend the Chairmans Governance meeting.
This provided insight into the key focus areas and considerations How the Company can maximise the voice of the of the Board and its committees and allowed a better employee to improve culture, communications, understanding of the governance framework operating across customer service.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director, The conversations have been very productive and further Committee Chairmen, Group Chief Executive and Group demonstrated the commitment of the employees to the Chief Financial Officer attended this meeting.
success of their teams and the role they play in the success of the Company.
Their voice is critical to our success.
Engagement themes with The high level of participation in the employee engagement our institutional shareholders survey in 2018 also demonstrates how eager the employees During the year, engagement themes included: are to see Centrica succeed in serving our customers, The external political environment: operating in our communities and supporting our North American accounting issues: employees.
In addition to participation, many of the Climate change: measures in the survey show that areas of focus in 2018, The Companys share price and shareholder return: including safety, values and communications, show Customer service and customer retention: and improvement.
The same survey has provided us the feedback to focus on areas for further improvement in the Cyber security.
Last but not least, we are in the very early stages of defining the Employee Champion role.
Employee By putting decentralisation, digitisation and engagement is improving however, this is a long term decarbonisation at the core of its operations, commitment to bring about positive results for the Board Centrica is making a real difference in tackling and employees.
The success of the role will require an climate change and empowering businesses ongoing commitment and engagement from the employees, the executives and the Board to work constructively and to be more efficient and sustainable.
collaboratively to shape a role that is both effective in the Carlos Pascual short-term and sustainable for the long-term.
Non-Executive Director Its an honour to be the Employee Champion for the Board.
2018 has been a year of defining this important role and setting out our ambitions.
In doing so, I have thoroughly enjoyed spending time with employees across the Group.
I am grateful for the insights in shaping the role of Employee Champion and the agenda and dialogue in the Board room.
Joan Gillman Non-Executive Director 78 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key investor relations activities during the year included Q1 JanMar Q2 AprJune Q3 JulSep Q4 OctDec Preliminary results Annual Report published Half-yearly results Trading update Post-results investor Chairmans Post-results investor meetings Governance Meeting meetings AGM Trading update Meetings between the CEO and CFO and the Companys major shareholders Chairman and Senior Independent Director meet with major institutional shareholders Press releases available on Centrica.
com Annual General Meeting AGM Share Dealing Programme Our AGM is attended by our Board and Executive Committee We continue to run our popular annual share-dealing programme members and is open to all our shareholders to attend.
for shareholders with shareholdings of up to 5,000 shares, giving A summary presentation of financial results is given before them the option to sell or increase their shareholdings at a fixed the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders who sold their shares had a further option to Shareholders present during the meeting can question the Board.
donate the proceeds to UK Charity ShareGift, resulting in over Representatives from Investor Relations and customer services 325,000 being donated since 2010. are available before and after the meeting to answer any additional Centrica.
com questions that shareholders may have.
Our 2018 AGM was very Our website, centrica.
com, contains up-to-date information for well supported, the level of support for the resolutions carried shareholders and other interested parties including annual reports, ranged from 89.35% to 99.92%.
shareholder circulars, share price information, news releases, The 2019 AGM will be held at the QEII Centre, Broad Sanctuary, presentations to the investment community and information on Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday 13 May 2019. shareholder services.
Further information is available in the Notice of AGM see centrica.
com agm19 Read more about Shareholder Information on Page 234 Reuniting our shareholders with unclaimed dividends Since 2009, together with our Registrar, Equiniti, and its partner ProSearch, Centrica have run an asset reunification programme.
This seeks to reunite shareholders with uncashed dividends and share entitlements.
To date, we have successfully reunited 25.2 million of share and dividend assets with shareowners.
The Company proposes to adopt new Articles at the 2019 AGM which will provide the Company with greater control and flexibility in relation to its treatment of untraced shareholders, the procedure for the payment of dividends and the holding of combined physical and electronic general meetings.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
