Strategic Report Exploration & Production Securing energy supplies for the future Our more focused Exploration & Production division is exploring new prospects and breathing new life into existing assets.
Drilling for the future West of Shetland A new offshore prospect has the potential to Its not often that you get the double Spirit Energys current production.
opportunity to work on something In its first major deal as a newly created business, Spirit Energy like this.
It could become the is funding a $180 million 139 million drilling campaign in the frontier region 60 miles West of Shetland, seeking to exploit oil cornerstone asset of Spirit stored in a non-traditional rock formation, a fractured basement.
Energy for the next 20 years.
The project could transform the business, as well as securing Viv Harvey important new energy supplies for UK customers.
Manager Geology TA, Spirit Energy In fractured basins, oil resides within cracks in the volcanic rock, unlike more conventional UK reservoirs where its found in the pores of sandstone rock.
Fractured basement production presents a new This opportunity has the potential to be one of the last world-class opportunity for Spirit Energy and for the UK.
developments in the UK, holding an estimated 2 billion barrels of oil across four licences.
In everyday terms, thats the same Example of a similar rock sort of size as Centricas Morecambe Bay field, which at its peak formation in the Shetlands produced enough gas to supply a fifth of all UK households.
Working with Hurricane Energy, the licence operator, three test wells will be drilled into two of the licences, Warwick and Lincoln.
If the tests are successful, and the field moves towards full development, Spirit Energy will become the licence operator, cementing its position as one of Europes leading oil and gas companies.
2 billion estimated barrels of oil 34 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 80 jobs safeguarded 2.5m UK homes supplied with gas New lease of life until 2030 and beyond How were working with others to secure the future of one of the UKs key gas processing sites.
In 2018 Centrica Storage Limited CSL won a landmark contract worth more than 200 million to process gas from the Tolmount field, one of the biggest recent discoveries in the Southern North Sea.
Tolmount marks a significant milestone for the future of the Easington terminal and clearly shows CSL is open for business as a gas processing hub for the Southern North Sea gas basin.
Greg McKenna Chief executive officer, CSL From the outset we were impressed The contract will extend the life of our Easington gas by the can-do mentality of the terminal until at least 2030, safeguarding around 80 jobs.
Centrica Storage team as well as their With production from the former storage facility at Rough due to run out by 2022, securing this contract was vital management of the existing facilities.
to the future of Easington.
Together we completed detailed and The Tolmount field development project a joint venture complex negotiations in record time, between HGS, Premier Oil and Dana Petroleum could produce enough gas to supply around 2.5 million UK enabling our Tolmount gas field to homes for 10 to 15 years.
So, Easington will play a key be sanctioned and breathing new part in keeping UK customers supplied with gas for many years to come.
life into the Easington terminal.
Hundreds more jobs will be created over the next two Robin Allan Chief operating officer, Premier Oil years as extensive modifications are made to the terminal to receive and process the gas, which will arrive through a new pipeline.
The Tolmount platform will be an unmanned facility which CSL will control remotely from Easington.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35
