Governance Audit Committee In 2019, key areas of focus for the Committee will be the continued oversight of the maintenance and development of our control environment, continued review of IT controls and IT systems evolution and the integration of recently acquired businesses.
Margherita Della Valle The Committee plans to conduct reviews of the control environment Committee Chairman of Centrica Business, Centrica Consumer and Spirit Energy.
I believe that the Committee has performed effectively in 2018.
Compliance with the 2016 Code, including the risk management and the viability statement requirements, is set out on pages 41 to 51.
Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Areas of focus I hope that you find the report which follows an interesting explanation of our work during the year.
North America Business controls This report aims to outline how we discharged our duty to and accounting processes support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in reviewing Challenged the use of manual processes and requested the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting, system improvements: and internal controls and risk management.
discussed and supported improvement plans and The Committee met six times in 2018, twice jointly with the Safety, monitored subsequent actions.
Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee SHESEC.
I have appreciated the contribution from the members of the Committee, management team and auditors in facilitating Finance Transformation Programme an open discussion and in taking the important work of the and Controls Maturity Committee forward.
Regularly reviewed progress and continues to monitor The Committee has developed its agenda to enable, over the plans to deliver enhanced financial control and insight course of a year, active oversight of all key areas of responsibility through a standardised operating model: and and to facilitate deeper dives into topics of particular importance collaborated with management to oversee improvements or pertinence.
In 2018 this agenda included regular reports on in management information and remediation of control Risk, Control and Assurance, Internal and External Audit, together weaknesses.
with periodic items reviewed at fixed points annually such as the interim and year-end financial results and internal and external audit plans.
In addition, there were deep dives during the year Energy Marketing & Trading Financial Risk as set out in the table opposite.
Received an update on the controls in place, current risk These deep dive discussions produced good debate and a profile and delegations of authority in the business: and challenging dialogue between management and the Committee following discussion, agreed that an audit on the integration members, supporting continued progress in those key areas.
of Neas Energy, including the results of assurance activities, Following the reassessment of the historic recognition of unbilled will be completed in 2019. power revenues, identified in late 2017 in North America Business, the Committee has had significant focus on the control environment in that business unit, where a number of enhancements to internal User Account Management controls, summarised in an 18-point plan, have been implemented Update received on improvement initiatives and investment with continued oversight from the Committee.
plans: and Furthermore, we have had continued dialogue and debate ongoing monitoring of improvement milestones and key with management in relation to their Finance Transformation deliverables.
programme, which aims to deliver top quartile levels of both service and cost performance as well as strategic agility, enhanced financial control and insight benefits.
The Committee Post-Acquisition Integration has been supportive of improvement plans and is focused on and Controls Framework the need to maintain strong controls.
The aims of this programme Reviewed the Groups approach to post-merger integration were endorsed by the Committee at the beginning of 2018 and and the accompanying control frameworks and considered we have closely monitored progress over the course of the year.
lessons learned from previous experiences: and The involvement of the Committee has been significant and the endorsed the approach being taken to integrate newly programme forms part of the regular agenda.
The Committee also met twice with SHESEC to jointly consider the Groups System of Risk Management and Internal Control: in the first quarter to assess the systems effectiveness and in Exceptional Items Policy the fourth quarter to look prospectively at plans for 2019.
Following a Committee challenge and discussion with More detail on the key issues considered by the Committee management, the policy was subsequently reviewed in 2018 are given below.
and updated with a revised materiality threshold.
80 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness of the Committee Membership and meetings The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-Executive The Board and its Committees are subject to a formal annual Directors, Margherita Della Valle, Stephen Hester and Steve Pusey.
evaluation process and, in accordance with the requirements of the 2016 UK Code, every three years the Board appoints an Margherita Della Valle, as Group Chief Financial Officer of independent third party to perform this review.
The last external Vodafone Group Plc, is considered by the Board to have recent review was conducted by Independent Audit IA for 2017 18 and relevant financial experience as required by the 2016 Code.
and included completion of a detailed questionnaire, IA review The Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources of papers, interviews with Directors and IA attendance at Board and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Audit Committees effectiveness Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of was considered as part of this evaluation process and the the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial review concluded that the Audit Committee was fully effective Officer, the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, in discharging its duties and continues to operate well.
Further the Group Head of Corporate Finance and the Head of Internal details on the IA performance evaluation are set out on page 77.
Audit, Risk & Control, none of whom do so as a right.
Other Senior Executives will attend as required to provide information Risk management and internal controls on matters being discussed which fall within their area of Internal Audit responsibility.
The external auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the also attended each meeting.
The Committee meets individually operation and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, with the external auditors, the Group Chief Financial Officer including its independence, strategic focus, activities, plans and and the Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Control at each meeting resources.
The appointment and removal of the Head of Internal without other Executive Directors present.
Audit, Risk & Control is also a matter for the Committee.
Committee activity The Committee approved the Groups annual Internal Audit plan.
The plan is developed in response to those risks identified Role of the Committee through the Enterprise Risk Management processes, using the The Committees Terms of Reference are available on centrica.
independent insight and experience of the Internal Audit team com.
The core responsibilities of the Committee are to: and their advisors.
It incorporates assurance over all aspects support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to maintain of our Group Risk Universe, including the Principal Risks in effective governance and oversight of the Companys the categories of Strategic, Financial, Operational and Legal financial reporting, internal controls and risk management: & Regulatory risk.
As part of its consideration of the plan, the provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report Committee reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to ensure and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and these were appropriate and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
understandable and provides all the necessary information The triannual External Quality Evaluation of Internal Audit will be for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, conducted in 2019, following a positive outcome in 2016.
Further business model and strategy: information on the Principal Risks is available on pages 41 to 51. monitor and review the operation and effectiveness of the During the year, the Committee received regular reports Groups Internal Audit function, including its independence, summarising the findings from the Groups Internal Audit strategic focus, activities, plans and resources: functions work and action plans to resolve any highlighted areas.
facilitate the appointment and, if required, the removal of the The Committee monitored the progress of the most significant Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Control: action plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
manage the relationship with the Groups external auditors Review of the System of Risk on behalf of the Board including the policy on the award Management and Internal Controls of non-audit services: Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of the System 10 years and make appointment recommendations to the of Risk Management and Internal Controls, including compliance Board: and with Our Code, and policies are assessed.
In addition, we have consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues, a comprehensive programme to assess the Groups Entity Level specifically in relation to financial reporting and controls, and Controls.
The results of the annual process, together with the together with SHESEC, maintain oversight of the arrangements conclusions of the internal reviews by Internal Audit, enable the in place for the management of statutory and regulatory Audit Committee and SHESEC, on behalf of the Board, to form compliance in areas such as financial crime.
and report their view on effectiveness.
Areas of focus and training During 2018 there has been intensive activity to improve the An annual schedule of training is designed to provide Directors financial and commercial controls, particularly in North America with practical training and insight into specific areas of interest.
Business, but also across the Group.
These improvements In 2018, these sessions covered the Centrica Pension Schemes have been discussed within the Audit Committee and SHESEC in July and, in November, a briefing on the expected impact of the throughout the year to provide support and guidance to our introduction of IFRS 16 and a wider Board session on commodity management teams.
We conclude that the System of Risk and non-commodity risk in the UK energy supply market.
Management and Internal Control is effective, whilst recognising the need for ongoing and continuous improvement.
We have confidence in the work of Internal Audit and the functional assurance teams, alongside our management teams, to identify issues that arise and remediate where necessary control gaps in line with our risk appetite.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Governance I Committee Reports Fair, balanced and understandable In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors As part of the Committees determination, on behalf of the Board, and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 2016 issued by the and understandable and provides the information necessary for Accounting Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Deloitte has confirmed its independence as auditors of the business model and strategy, the Committee considers the Company.
Together with Deloittes confirmation and report on processes and controls involved in its production and the financial its approach to audit quality and transparency, the Committee reporting responsibilities of the Directors under section 172 of the concluded that Deloitte demonstrated appropriate qualifications Companies Act 2006 to promote the success of the Company and expertise and remained independent of the Group and that for the benefit of its members as a whole.
There is a robust the external audit process was effective.
governance framework around the production of the Annual Non-audit fees Report to ensure it is critically reviewed and signed off by the key To preserve the independence of the external auditor, the teams in the relevant businesses and functions and the Committee Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit was satisfied that the process was effective and confirmed to the services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available Board that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, was fair, on our website.
The current cap on non-audit work is 2.75 million, balanced and understandable.
which is assessed annually for appropriateness against external guidance and regulation.
This cap is significantly below the EU External auditors The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups regulation of 70% non-audit fees compared to the three-year average of statutory audit fees.
Non-audit fees for 2018 totalled external auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers annually the scope, fee, audit plan, performance and 1.2 million a ratio of 16%.
All non-audit work within this policy is detailed and reviewed by the Committee at the next meeting.
independence of the external auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
The Committee last led a formal All significant non-audit work is tendered and where Deloitte was appointed, it was considered that its skills and experience not only audit tender process in 2016, the details of which can be found in the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts.
made it the most appropriate supplier of the work but also there was clear evidence that another firm could not be used without The Board considers it of prime importance that the external adversely impacting the business.
auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard against this being compromised, the Committee implemented Audit information and monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of This policy details the process for the appointment of the external the Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte is the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Groups choice of external auditors.
information and to establish that Deloitte is aware of that information.
Deloitte was appointed as the Companys auditor at the beginning of 2017 and will this year perform their second full audit.
The re-appointment of Deloitte as auditors was approved Margherita Della Valle by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2018.
Committee Chairman The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of Deloitte, primarily looking at the key areas of audit quality, capability and competence, past performance and independence.
This assessment included a review of the report issued by the Audit Quality Review AQR team regarding Deloitte and separately an internal questionnaire was completed by the Chairman of the Board, Committee members and senior members of management on their views of Deloittes performance.
The questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit scope and approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and objectivity and robustness of the challenge of management.
The feedback received was reviewed by management and reported to the Committee and the Board.
The Committee also received an update from Deloitte on the progress of the FRC AQR review to their 2017 audit.
The final AQR report has been received on February 20th, 2019 and the Audit Committee will now review the detailed findings, which were raised in two areas of the audit, and understand how Deloitte intend to respond to those findings in future audits.
The Committee was satisfied with the external auditors commitment to audit quality, the robust and professional working relationship with management and demonstration of strong technical knowledge and professional scepticism.
82 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key judgements and financial Audit Committee reviews reporting matters in 2018 and conclusions Determination of long-term commodity prices and The Committee reviewed and challenged the proposed commodity their use valuing commodity trades and other long-life assets curves versus those of external third parties.
Long-term commodity price forecasts are derived using internal The Committee observed that the long-term commodity price forecasts valuation techniques based on available external data.
A significant had reduced year on year and were now more closely aligned to these number of judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future third-party views.
The assumed length of UK Capacity Market commodity curves.
These forecasts are benchmarked against suspension was also noted.
other third-party forecasts and, where appropriate, are adjusted Deloitte also provided detailed reporting and held discussions with to ensure they lie within the range of a reasonable market participant.
the Committee on the impact of the commodity curves.
The long-term commodity price forecasts are then used in determining the fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Following review and challenge, the Committee were comfortable Europe.
They are also a key input in the Groups impairment valuation.
the curves and consequent valuations were appropriate.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair values is provided in note S6 on pages 195 to 197.
Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to changes in price forecasts are provided in note 7 on pages 147 to 148.
Impairment and or write-back, including The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying related onerous contract provisions and recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether estimates used.
It noted that the Exploration and Production E&P the carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
In particular, the asset net write-backs were primarily due to an increase in liquid main assets under consideration are goodwill, upstream gas and oil, prices alongside reductions to expected decommissioning costs, offset power generation, connected home and distributed energy and power by a reduction in longer-term price forecasts.
These judgements include primarily the achievement of observed that the power station impairments and onerous provision Board-approved business plans, long-term projected cash flows, were linked to the assumption around the length of UK Capacity Market generation and production levels including reserve estimates and suspension and longer-term reductions in forecast future peak other economic assumptions such as the growth and discount rates spark-spreads power prices.
The Committee noted that no impairment and long-term commodity and capacity market auction prices used was reflected for the Nuclear investment and that the recoverable in the valuation process.
In the forecasts, where forward market prices amount was based on a value-in-use VIU calculation rather than are not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs on a sales basis, and that the held for sale criteria had not been met.
The Committee requested addition disclosure in the Annual Report to note that any future sales proceeds may be lower than this VIU.
At the year-end, pre-tax net impairment write-backs of Exploration and Production E&P assets of 90 million were booked, relating to The Audit Committee challenged management and Deloitte on the UK and Norwegian assets including the impact of decommissioning key inputs to the impairment models including price and discount updates.
Pre-tax impairment write-offs of 18 million in relation to rates, and were comfortable with the conclusions reached the remaining gas turbine power stations and a 44 million onerous see also Determination of long-term commodity prices above.
contract provision in relation to the Spalding tolling arrangement, were The Committee also reviewed the long-term projected cashflows used also recognised.
No impairments were reflected for Nuclear investment in valuing the Connected Home and Distributed Energy and Power or the Connected Home and Distributed Energy and Power businesses.
businesses, benchmarked to external valuations and concurred with managements assessment that no impairment was required for these assets.
Further detail on impairment and or write-backs arising and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages 146 to 148 and 175 to 186.
Classification and presentation of exceptional items and During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups policy on certain re-measurements including own use assessment exceptional items and challenged a number of definitions.
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business As a result, an updated policy was approved which included greater performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to clarity and specificity around eligibility of costs, particularly in the provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of area of restructuring, as well as a revised materiality threshold.
certain re-measurements of financial instruments and exceptional At the year-end, the Committee challenged the items classified as items are reported separately in a different column in the Group exceptional items, considering their size, nature and incidence and Income Statement.
in the context of the Group policy.
The Committee concluded that The classification of items as exceptional and specific trades as separate disclosure of these items as exceptional was appropriate certain re-measurements or conversely own use or proprietary trades in the Financial Statements.
are subject to defined Group policies.
These policies are reviewed The Committee also noted that the Group policy on certain annually by management.
re-measurements and the assessment of own use and or proprietary At the year-end, exceptional items included the impairments, trading remained unchanged from previous periods and that this write-backs and onerous provisions noted above, as well as presentation allowed underlying performance to be reflected on restructuring costs related to phase 2 of the Groups cost efficiency a consistent and comparable basis.
programme of 170 million, debt repurchase costs associated with the Further detail is provided in note 7 on pages 146 to 148.
Groups liability management programme of 139 million and a past service cost related to Guaranteed Minimum Pension of 43 million.
Certain re-measurements totalled a 220 million charge.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Governance I Committee Reports Key judgements and financial Audit Committee reviews reporting matters in 2018 and conclusions Energy supply revenue recognition The Committee has reviewed the level of unbilled revenue accrual The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate and provisions made during the year and discussed with management of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter and the external auditors.
reading and the year-end meter reading.
It is estimated through the The Committee noted that the unbilled accrual had followed the same billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customerestimation process as in previous years and that Deloitte had managed by-customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts to independently reperform this calculation to within an immaterial and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and difference.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are More details of accrued energy income and provision for credit loss likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow is provided in note 17 on pages 159 to 160. to the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
Estimated revenue is restricted to the amount the group expects to be entitled to, in exchange for energy supplied.
At the year-end, unbilled energy income for the supply businesses was 1,542 million 2017: 1,585 million.
Pensions The Committee received training on the Centrica Pension Schemes The assets and liabilities, and the cost associated with providing in July.
The Committee reviewed, challenged and approved the benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately key assumptions and disclosures in the Financial Statements.
for each of the Groups schemes.
Judgement is required in setting The Committee noted the consistent year-on-year methodology the key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation which determines used to derive the key defined benefit assumptions and that the the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially rates were within comparator range.
given the length of the Groups expected liabilities.
Independent actuaries are consulted on the appropriateness of the The net Group pension deficit was 79 million 2017: 886 million.
assumptions and discussions are also held with the external auditors.
The UK defined benefit schemes used a nominal discount rate of Further details on pensions are set out in note 22 on pages 165 to 169.
Going concern, viability statement and liquidity risk The Committee reviewed and challenged managements funding The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position forecasts and sensitivity analysis and the impact of various possible due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
adverse events including significant commodity price movements To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains and credit rating downgrades.
The Group regularly prepares an The external auditors also provided detailed reporting and held assessment detailing these available resources to support the discussions with the Committee.
going concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
Following the review, the Committee recommended to the Board The Group also models various possible downside scenarios the adoption of the going concern statement in the Annual Report to show the longer-term viability of the business and to support and Accounts 2018 and concurred with the Viability conclusion.
Further details on sources of finance are set out in note 24 on pages 171 to 173.
The Going Concern section is in Other Statutory Information on page 112 and the Viability statement in Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 51.
New Accounting Standards The Committee reviewed and challenged the Groups assessment The Group was required to adopt IFRS 9: Financial Instruments and of the accounting impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 and also discussed IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers in 2018.
Following the approach and conclusions with the external auditors.
a detailed review of Groups relevant transactions and positions, The Committee concurred with the conclusions reached on adoption no material adjustments were required.
In 2019, the Group will be required to adopt IFRS 16: Leases, bringing The Committee noted the likely impact of IFRS 16 on the future all leases on balance sheet and increasing net debt by c. 420million.
reporting of the Group and also the possible change to Revenue If ratified, it will also need to reflect a tentative IFRIC interpretation on and Cost of Sales from the IFRIC interpretation.
the Physical settlement of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item, Further details on the new accounting standards are included in note 1 in 2019.
This interpretation would change the way the Group presents on pages 129 to 132.
Revenue and Cost of Sales although with no change to Gross Profit.
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement The Committee reviewed the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement Statement and the key judgements and disclosures made in its Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS for Ofgem which breaks preparation.
down our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, The external auditor also provided a detailed report and held domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is reconciled to our externally reported International Financial The full CSS and the independent audit opinion approved by Reporting Standards Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group the Committee for publication are set out on pages 222 to 233. publishes the CSS at the same time as the full year Annual Report and Accounts and the CSS is independently audited.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
84 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee awareness of Speak Up and prompted a notable increase in the use of the line with 1.16 reports per 100 employees now being received external benchmarks: 1.4 reports per 100 employees.
As well as the key activities undertaken or overseen by the SHESEC Steve Pusey during the year through the Committees structured forward Committee Chairman programme, this report shares insights into our discussions.
Membership and meetings The Committee comprises Steve Pusey Chairman, Margherita Della Valle, Joan Gillman, Carlos Pascual and Scott Wheway.
All of the Dear Shareholder Committees members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Safety, SHESEC members bring a wide range of sector experience, insight Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee and stakeholder perspectives.
This experience is used to challenge, SHESEC report for the year ended 31 December 2018. shape and provide oversight of the SHESECs agenda, supporting I hope that you find this report an interesting explanation the Board to monitor the Groups work.
Details of the matters of both our work and SHESEC performance during the year.
discussed at Committee meetings are set out later in this report.
The SHESEC is now in its third full year of operation and during During the year the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief 2018 continued to develop its agenda.
During the year the Executive, the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Committee provided constructive challenge to the management the Group HR Director, the Group HSES Director and the of risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the control framework Group Head of Internal Audit, Risk and Control attended related to safety, health, environment, security and ethics.
all Committee meetings, as did other key executives.
The Committee continued to prioritise safety, and in particular The Committee met five times during 2018, with each meeting process safety, as a key focus area.
During the year there were having a distinct agenda to reflect the particular matters for the considerable improvements in process safety performance with SHESECs consideration.
The Committee also met twice with Centricas process safety incident frequency rate Tier 1 and 2 the Audit Committee: further details on these two meetings are reducing to 0.06 per 200,000 hours worked 2017: 0.14.
Whilst included in the Audit Committees report.
improving safety performance remained an ongoing priority, The SHESECs forward programme is developed with the Group during 2018 we experienced one Tier 1 process safety event, General Counsel & Company Secretary and is regularly reviewed.
a gas release on the J6A platform within our Spirit Energy The SHESEC and Audit Committee worked together, through their joint venture 2017 Tier 1 events: 0.
Following the gas release, Chairmen and secretaries, to ensure that agendas did not overlap Centricas Chief Engineer led an event investigation, the findings or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
of which, including the action plan, were reviewed by the At each meeting the Committee receives reports from Group Spirit Energy Board, Centricas Executive Management HSES, Group Ethics & Compliance and Group Internal Audit & and the SHESEC.
Enterprise Risk, in addition to deep dives on key areas of focus.
Our Spirit Energy joint venture is required to comply with Centricas health, safety, environment and security HSES Role of the Committee policies, and is accountable to the Spirit Energy Board for its The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the HSES performance.
Spirit Energys Boards assurance of policy adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls compliance is provided through Spirit Energys HSES function and risk management systems related to safety, health, and through Spirit Energys Internal Audit team.
Centrica assures environment, security and ethics in respect of: Spirit Energys performance through: the Centrica-appointed People: Engagement, Culture and Behaviours: directors on the Spirit Energy Board: regular Centrica Executive Sourcing and Supplier Management: Management and Centrica Board reviews of Spirit Energy Infrastructure, Equipment and Practices affecting Health, HSES performance: and, where necessary, through the right to Safety, Environment and Security: independently audit Spirit Energys performance and compliance Information Systems and Security: and with our HSES policies.
Legal, Regulatory and Ethical Standards Compliance.
The implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and Centricas GDPR Readiness Programme was another Committee effectiveness key area of focus during 2018.
The Committee provided challenge Read more about the Committees effectiveness, which was and received assurance on the delivery of the Programme through considered as part of the Board evaluation process, set out regular Programme updates during the year.
The Committee on page 77. will consider this phase of the Programme in February 2019 and the Data Governance Council will assume ongoing responsibility Steve Pusey for further phases to ensure longer-term compliance.
Committee Chairman Following the Committees 2017 briefing session on Our Code, the replacement for Centricas former Business Principles and Read more about our process safety performance codes of conduct that existed across the Group, Our Code has in our Key Performance Indicators on been successfully rolled out across the Group and more than Pages 18 to 19 96% of all employees have trained and certified against Our Code.
Read more about Our Code and the Speak Up helpline In addition, the Committee oversaw the re-launch of Speak Up, a centrica.
com ourcode Group-wide online and phone-based helpline for the confidential Included in PwCs limited assurance engagements.
reporting of violations of laws, regulations or company policies.
com assurance for more details.
This re-launch, together with Our Code training, has improved Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Governance I Committee Reports Areas of focus Modern Slavery Act MSA Statement Cyber Security Outcome: 2017 MSA Statement reviewed and Outcome: Monitoring the programme of work recommended to Centricas Board for approval to respond to the evolving cyber security threat Procurement and Supplier Management Safety Critical Maintenance Outcome: Reviewed and challenged Centricas Outcome: Monitoring of safety critical maintenance procurement and supplier management work practices performance and reviewing the implementation of a in support of Centricas compliance with the MSA 2015 new system to monitor the integrity of safety critical hardware barriers in order to improve overall process safety performance Safety Leadership Outcome: Safety leadership activities monitored and Task Force on Climate-related the impact these have on progress across the Group in reducing customer injuries and employee injuries, and Financial Disclosures TCFD in improving process safety performance, reviewed Outcome: TCFD recommendations reviewed People & Culture Occupational Safety Review Outcome: Overseeing the launch and monitoring Outcome: Review of, and programme to address, interactions with Our Code, including the roll-out musculoskeletal injuries evaluated of a training module Outcome: Monitoring confidential reporting to the Speak Up helpline Environmental Strategy Outcome: Progress on the Environmental Strategy deliverables, environmental performance and GDPR Readiness Programme mid-term and longer-term plans reviewed Outcome: Overseeing of the delivery of the Groups GDPR Readiness Programme Improving Driver Safety The World Health Organisation WHO reported in 2016 that 1.4 2017 we introduced an operations-led global Driver Safety million people are killed on the worlds roads annually, making Forum to ensure that we monitor and learn from driving roads the tenth leading cause of death, and the highest cause behaviours, improve our communications when promoting of death from injuries.
Putting this into perspective, the leading safer driving and implement good practices identified both cause of death, heart disease, resulted in 9.4 million deaths in internally and externally.
Our focus on driver safety continues 2016 and there are 490,000 malaria-related deaths annually.
to improve our safety performance relating to road traffic events and in the 18 months since the introduction of the At Centrica, our engineers drive in all weather conditions, day Driver Safety Forum we have seen a 31% reduction in and night, ensuring our customers energy systems are reliable reported events.
and that breakdowns are resolved quickly.
We recognise the hazards associated with driving and manage this risk by using vehicles with high safety ratings, deploying vehicle telemetry systems to monitor driver behaviour and delivering training 0.21 programmes to improve skills such as defensive driving.
Accidents in 2018 Both the WHO and the Royal Society for the Prevention of per 1,000,000 km driven Accidents have recognised the risk associated with the use 2017: 0.32 of mobile devices for example, telephones and tablets when driving and in 2011 Centrica prohibited the use of mobile devices while driving.
Since then improvements in telematics and mobile telephone GPS systems have helped us better understand how driving behaviour has changed.
Thus, in early 86 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Disclosure Committee Areas of focus Iain Conn Results Announcements Group Chief Executive Review of results announcements to determine scope and content of disclosure Dear Shareholder Confidential Projects Review specific confidential projects to determine On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the whether there was inside information requiring Disclosure Committee report for the year ended disclosure 31December 2018.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the disclosure controls and procedures of the Group and for ensuring that Centrica meets the regulatory requirements when disclosing information concerning the Company.
Management and Disclosure of Inside Information What the Committee did in 2018 Systems and controls in respect of management Reviewed the preliminary results announcement, the annual and disclosure of inside information report and accounts, the interim results and the trading statements and advised on the scope and content of disclosure: considered the release of regulatory and industry announcements: Committee effectiveness reviewed announcements regarding Board and key management changes: and Read more about the Committees effectiveness which was considered specific confidential projects to determine whether considered as part of this evaluation process, set out on page 77. there was inside information about the Company that would be required to be disclosed.
Iain Conn Group Chief Executive Membership and attendance at meetings The Committee is comprised of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Committee met 10 times during 2018, with each meeting having a distinct agenda to reflect the particular matters for the Committees consideration.
Role of the Committee The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the design, implementation, operation, monitoring and periodic evaluation of systems and controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and specifically the Market Abuse Regulation and the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committee resolves questions about the materiality and treatment of information and considers and determines whether certain issues or events give rise to inside information about the Company which requires disclosure and or the creation of insider lists.
The committee, in conjunction with its advisers, will also, in certain exceptional circumstances, consider whether the conditions for delaying disclosure of inside information about the Company are satisfied and, where appropriate, will implement and monitor the delay procedure.
The Committee has scheduled meetings each year to approve the interim and preliminary results announcements and trading statements and meets as required to review other matters falling under the Committees remit.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Governance I Committee Reports Nominations Committee During the year, a search process was initiated for a Non-Executive Director with the potential to succeed Margherita Della Valle, Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman, who will step down from the Board in 2019 having Rick Haythornthwaite completed her nine-year term in office.
Russell Reynolds, the Chairman executive search consultancy, which has no other connection with Centrica, was appointed to conduct the search and on 15 January 2019 we announced that Kevin OByrne will join the Board in May 2019 replacing Margherita as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Dear Shareholder Executive Directors On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the After serving three years as Group Chief Financial Officer, Jeff Bell Nominations Committees report for the year ended announced his intention to step down from the Board.
I hope you will find the report that Mark Hanafin, Chief Executive, Centrica Business, announced his follows interesting and informative.
retirement after serving 10 years on the Board.
Spencer Stuart, the executive search and leadership consultancy who support The year has been particularly busy for the Committee Centrica more generally in relation to its executive succession in relation to succession planning and, specifically, planning, was appointed to initiate a search for both roles which refreshing the executive and non-executive membership involved a comprehensive assessment process against agreed of the Board.
The Committee has also been active in Executive Director profiles.
Both internal and external candidates internal talent development and has conducted a were considered for the roles.
Assessment against these role rigorous externally facilitated review of its performance.
profiles confirmed that Chris OShea and Richard Hookway would be valuable additions to the Centrica Board in the respective roles Board succession of Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive, Centrica Throughout the year, the Committee focused on Board Business.
Following consideration of both individuals, the succession.
Succession planning within Centrica is continuous Nominations Committee recommended, and the Board approved, and pro-active and arrangements are in place to ensure that their respective appointments.
Both have extensive experience changes to the membership of the Board are well managed.
gained across a range of industries, including the energy sector, The Committee embraces the importance of diversity and this broad business and commercial knowledge will assist and inclusion in all Board recruitment and supports the the Board considerably in its future plans.
recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews In December 2018, Mark Hodges, Chief Executive, Centrica in relation to gender and ethnic diversity.
The Committee remains Consumer, announced that after nearly four years with the committed to achieving a broader, more diverse Board and broad Company he would be stepping down from the Board on 28 search criteria is used to encourage a diverse range of candidates.
I am pleased to announce that Mark has been Non-Executive Directors succeeded by an internal candidate, Sarwjit Sambhi, Managing During the year, a search process was initiated to identify a Director of Centricas Consumer Division.
potential successor to Lesley Knox who stepped down from Senior Executives the Board in December 2017.
A suitable female candidate was In December, we announced that Grant Dawson, Group General approached during 2018 for the position but was unable to Counsel & Company Secretary, would retire from the Company accept the role owing to an emerging conflict with her existing in March 2019 after serving 22 years.
I am delighted to report commitments.
The search process continued and on 15 January that, following an assessment by Spencer Stuart, Grant will 2019, we announced the appointment of Pam Kaur as a be succeeded by an internal candidate, Justine Campbell in Non-Executive Director, effective 1 February 2019.
Justine has been with Centrica since 2013 and has In May 2018, after having served nearly six years on the Board, considerable legal and regulatory experience in both the energy five of these as Chairman, I announced my intention to step and telecommunications sectors.
The Committee agreed the role profile for my successor and determined that, in line with good Committee Memberships corporate governance, Stephen Hester, the Senior Independent In addition, the Nominations Committee has overseen changes to Non-Executive Director, should lead the search process on behalf the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Having served of the Committee and the Board.
Following a review of potential as a member of the Remuneration Committee since 1 January search firms, the Committee agreed to appoint the international 2011, Margherita Della Valle stepped down from the Committee executive search consultancy, Korn Ferry, which has no other with effect from 17 October 2018.
Stephen Hester succeeded connection with Centrica, to support the recruitment process.
Margherita as a member of the Remuneration Committee with Following a comprehensive search process, the Committee effect from the same date.
recommended, and the Board approved, the appointment of Charles Berry as Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate Talent development with effect from 31 October 2018.
Charles will be appointed Internal talent development and the ability to attract, retain and Chairman after I step down from the Board on 21 February 2019. develop skilled, high potential individuals within Centrica is an area that the Committee has again focused on.
Working with the Group HR Director, the Committee reviewed the strength of the succession plans in place for Executive Directors and certain senior management roles.
The Committee recognises the importance of and the benefits to the Company by developing a pipeline of diversity as it continues to work with senior management to develop internal talent.
88 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Membership and attendance at meetings We were very pleased with the process The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-Executive to appoint Charles as Centricas next Directors, Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman, Charles Berry, Chairman.
After thorough internal Margherita Della Valle, Joan Gillman, Stephen Hester, Carlos Pascual, Steve Pusey and Scott Wheway.
The Board is satisfied discussion and key shareholder that the Committee has the resources and expertise to fulfil its consultations, our brief met good responsibilities.
response with a well qualified and During the year, meetings of the Committee were attended by the Group Chief Executive and Group HR Director, none diverse shortlist.
Charles was the of whom do so as a right.
Other Senior Executives attended unanimous choice of the Nominations as required to provide information on matters being discussed which fall within their area of responsibility.
The Committee met 11 times during 2018, with each meeting Stephen Hester having a distinct agenda to reflect the particular matters for Senior Independent Director the Committees consideration.
Role of the Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Areas of focus Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience to effectively lead the Company both Succession planning of Non-Executive in the present and the future.
This is achieved through effective Directors succession planning, the identification and development of Female successor to Lesley Knox: internal talent and a clear understanding of the competencies and Chairman designate to succeed Rick Haythornthwaite: and capabilities required to support the delivery of Centricas strategy.
Audit Committee Chairman to succeed Margherita The Committee continually reviews the leadership needs of Della Valle.
the Company, both executive and non-executive, to ensure the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace, and keeps fully informed of the strategic issues and Succession planning of Executive Directors commercial changes affecting the Company and the market in Successors to the Group Chief Financial Officer and which it operates.
the Chief Executive, Centrica Business: and The Committee plays an important role in promoting diversity internal candidate to succeed the Chief Executive, and inclusion on the Centrica Board.
In identifying and nominating Centrica Consumer.
candidates to fill Board vacancies, the Committee considers candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, assessing them on merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender and ethnicity.
Talent Development Reviewed succession plans: and Committee effectiveness internal candidate to succeed the Group General Counsel Read more about the Committees effectiveness which was & Company Secretary.
considered as part of this evaluation process, set out on page 77.
Rick Haythornthwaite Committee Membership On behalf of the Nominations Committee Change in membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89
