Strategic Report Centrica Consumer Here for you when you need us most Through the commitment of our people and digital transformation we are in a better position to meet our customers needs.
Protecting our customers during the Beast from the East Thousands of our customers were hit by ferocious winter weather conditions.
Faced with unprecedented demand #winterheroes for help, our colleagues showed unwavering commitment Engineer Steve Jackson walked for more than a mile to keep them safe and warm.
through the snow with his tools in a backpack to reconnect From 28 February to 4 March 2018 blizzards, high winds, drifting a customer who had been without heat and water for snow and sub-zero temperatures caused major disruption across two days.
He then walked back to his van and made the length and breadth of the UK.
The Beast from the East more customer visits.
Steve walked home at the end brought some of the most testing weather conditions experienced of the day after having to abandon his van in the snow.
for many years and created unprecedented demand from Dave Shipp our customers.
@daveshipp19 @BritishGas Your engineer We received three times as many calls as we would on a typical Steve 17249 has just repaired our boiler.
winters day and customer breakdown demand was around What a hero!
Walked some distance in 150% higher than usual, with many breakdowns caused by -12 to get here.
At the same time as this surge in customer demand, we had to close two of our call centres in Scotland, 02 Mar 2018 as colleagues were unable to get into work safely.
Despite the challenges faced, our people showed unfailing commitment to our customers, going above and beyond the call of duty to keep them safe and warm, and living up to Our Values of Care, Courage and Collaboration.
Jackie Robertson worked two unscheduled nightshifts at her customer contact centre, While we could not get to every customer as quickly as we would have liked, the office teams and field managers worked tirelessly in addition to her normal dayshift.
to help customers fix their own problems if possible and direct them to self-fix videos on social media platforms.
Over 6,000 I always think What if thats my fan heaters were distributed to vulnerable customers, making mum or dad thats struggling.
sure they had a temporary heat source until an engineer Especially in that weather if they could get to them.
I put myself Self-fix videos in their shoes.
I wouldnt want Find out more: Preparing for heavy snow them left with nothing.
com preparingforsnow Jackie Robertson Find out more: How to thaw a condensate pipe Customer Service Advisor centrica.
com condensatepipe 500,000 150% incoming calls from increase in boiler customers in one breakdown demand 45-minute period 30 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65% 25% reduction in time to reduction in calls service each claim per claim 30% increase in renewals Good prompt service.
All issues always resolved in a timely and professional manner.
Automated claims process online is awesome!!
Sandra Pate Customer Transforming customer experience at Home Warranty of America Leah Barton Vice President, Home Protection, at Centrica Consumer explained HWAs drive to provide better service to customers who make claims for home repairs and breakdowns.
Unexpected issues at home are stressful.
Something has gone wrong: your family is affected, and you want to make things right as quickly as possible.
With our new claims system, were able to get the right contractor to a customers home, communicate more clearly to them and get their homes back in order quickly.
If you go back 18 months, our customer experience was not where we wanted it to be.
The problem was that when a customer placed a claim, it would be assigned to an independent contractor with little visibility to the customer or to us about whether the job would be accepted, or what the claim status was as it progressed.
This resulted in frequent customer calls and long times to service not the effortless experience we desired.
We decided we had to fix it.
In mid-2018 we launched a new online automated claims system.
Now, our customers receive a link to track the status of their claim online.
Its easier for contractors to accept jobs and communicate with us, and we can take action if we dont see a claim progressing smoothly.
As a result, weve seen a reduction in time to service and in the The electrician went above and number of touchpoints required to resolve a claim.
Customers are beyond in evaluating not only calling us less often and getting their issues resolved more quickly.
The better service has also helped our efforts to improve renewal for the issue I called him out on rates, which are up from 35% last year to over 45% now.
but also on things he noticed that Everyones happier.
We have a much clearer understanding across I should know.
our customers, contractors, contact centre agents and back office Larry Wallace colleagues about whats happening at any given time.
Customer Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
