Strategic Report Our Business Model Our business model is designed to deliver returns and growth through a shift of resources toward our customer-facing businesses.
Our Energy Supply, Services, Connected Home, Distributed Our customer-facing businesses are supported by the common Energy & Power and Energy Marketing & Trading businesses are operating functions of Customer Operations and Field Operations.
organised into two global customer-facing divisions: Centrica These functions are where we interact with the customer and Consumer is designed to support the needs of residential are fundamental to our success.
consumers and Centrica Business is designed to support the Our exploration and production businesses, Spirit Energy needs of the business customer.
Each division has a strategic and Centrica Storage, are focused on Europe.
framework built around five pillars and these are set out in the To ensure our model remains efficient and scalable, all businesses diagram below.
are supported by a number of centre-led Group Functions that Our Central Power Generation business is included within the are responsible for setting boundaries and standards which Centrica Business division, given its role in the management allow us to effectively manage risk and ensure a strong system and optimisation of central power generation and its interface of internal control.
Our strategic frameworks Centrica Consumer 1.
H ome automation Gas supply servicing Home insurance management Home control Electricity supply Cover products Home security Energy insight Appliance control protection plans, and monitoring Energy efficiency warranties Remote diagnostics Energy optimisation On demand repair Energy solutions and maintenance Installation heating and air con Centrica Business 1.
E nergy solutions Gas supply Energy resource Multi-technology energy optimisation Trading partner management Asset optimisation solutions Electricity supply and monitoring Design, install, Energy commodities Aggregation and and risk products Operational insights optimisation of maintain and service from energy data distributed energy Central power Business services resources Preventative generation maintenance Access to energy, capacity and flexible markets Exploration & Production 1.
Balance sheet strength production 16 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Group Priorities We are focused on five key priorities to deliver Safety, compliance Cost efficiency our strategy and we align performance and and conduct and simplification risk management processes around these, including our Key Performance Indicators.
Customer satisfaction People and building and operational excellence capability Read more about Our Strategy on Pages 14 to 15 Cash flow growth and strategic momentum Our Responsible We will focus on: Business Ambitions Delivering for Enabling all our We are determined to use our capabilities to our customers customers to make a positive impact.
That is why in 2019, use energy we are launching our 2030 Responsible more sustainably Business Ambitions a set of 15 goals that contribute to a more sustainable world.
Our Ambitions are underpinned by our Responsible Business Foundations Building the workforce Creating stronger that ensure we operate with integrity.
of the future communities Read more about Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions on Pages 56 to 65 Our financial goals Targets Metric Our financial goals are delivered through a Adjusted operating 3-5% underlying growth p. a. on average clear financial framework that enables us to cash flow deliver long-term shareholder value through Dividend Progressive in line with adjusted returns and growth.
operating cash flow The risks to achieving the Groups strategy are monitored and reported regularly.
1 Controllable costs Operating cost growth inflation For more information on managing our Capital Investment 70% of adjusted operating cash flow exposure to risk see Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 41 to 51. re-investment Limited to 1.2 billion p. a. in 2018-20 Our priorities also ensure that progress Credit rating Strong investment grade Baa1 BBB or above in delivering performance in Safety, Customer Satisfaction, Operational ROACE At least 10-12% Excellence and People is a core part of the overall Group performance, which is then measured through individual employee scorecards.
1 Further information on controllable costs can be found in Additional Information Explanatory Notes on page 235.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
