Strategic Report Our Strategy In 2015 our Strategic Review was founded on an analysis of market trends and sources of growth, and the capabilities and efficiency necessary to pursue them profitably.
To deliver for the changing needs of our customers Strategic context We identified three fundamental trends To deliver long-term shareholder which are changing the energy landscape: value through returns andgrowth decentralisation, shifting of power to the To be a trusted corporate citizen customer and digitisation.
To be an employer of choice To be a 21st century energy and services company Decentralisation Globally, as a result of the need to tackle climate change, we require lower carbon and more efficient solutions.
This is driving the energy system to become decentralised with technologies such as renewable generation, batteries, and demand response available and viable, close to the customer.
Power to the customer As a result of increased choice and alternatives, the customer is becoming more powerful.
Owning the relationship with customers and satisfying their needs is fundamental.
Digitisation Technological developments, both physical and digital, are accelerating the pace of change.
Capability in these areas is key to keeping up with customers and their changing needs.
These trends demand decentralised propositions, customer intimacy and service, agility and technology capability as the customer becomes increasingly powerful.
That is why, at Centrica, our purpose is to provide energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers, and this is at the heart of our strategy.
14 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our divisions Strategic approach In 2017, we reorganised the Group around the customer, creating To deliver the strategy we announced two new, customer-facing divisions: Centrica Consumer and in July 2015, we set ourselves anumber Centrica Business, which address global customer needs that of medium-term objectives to 2020 go beyond energy supply and target those areas where we and focus areas of long-term growth.
Alongside this, we refocused Our strategic objectives our Exploration & Production business.
Customer-led growth Smaller and more focused Centrica Consumer E&P business Market trends: Customer needs: 1.5 billion resource reallocation from Global demographic Value for money E&P and Central Power Generation to changes Solutions not just products customer-facing businesses 2015 20 Adoption of technology Frictionless service 1.25 billion p. a. efficiency programme Mobile first Trusted brands delivery by the end of 2019 and a Self-service Responsible use of data further 500 million p. a. beyond 2019 Traditional competitive Strong financial discipline within boundaries blurring a clear framework Growth of data and analytics Adjusted operating cash flow growth of 3-5% p. a.
Read more about Centrica Consumer on Pages 20 to 23 and 28 to 31 Our focus areas for long-term growth Energy Supply Centrica Business Services Connected Home Market trends: Customer needs: Distributed Energy & Power Volumes per customer Reduced cost and increased Energy Marketing & Trading reducing productivity Margins under pressure Supply security and resilience Gas becoming global An expert partner to guide them through complexity Mega-trends impacting Section 172 Directors Duties energy sector A trusted and credible counterpart The Directors continue to have regard to the Electricity system Not to be distracted from interests of the Companys employees and becoming more local their main activity other stakeholders, including the impact of its activities on the community, environment and the Companys reputation, when making Read more about Centrica Business on decisions.
The Directors, acting fairly between Pages 24 to 26, 28 to 29 and 32 to 33 members, and acting in good faith, consider what is most likely to promote the success of the Company for its members in the long term.
Exploration & Production Read more about our Stakeholder Engagement on Exploration & Production E&P is nowmore focused, providing diversity Pages 52 to 55 of cash flows and is asource of balance sheet strength.
Following our Read more about Delivering our divestment programme, theformation of Spirit Energy, and conversion of Responsible Business Ambitions on the Rough field to a producing asset, the E&P business is focused on Europe.
Pages 56 to 65 Read more about how we manage Risks on Read more about Exploration & Production on Pages 41 to 51 Page 27 and pages 28 to 29 and 34 to 35 Read more about our Governance on Pages 66 to 112 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 15
