OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY DELIVERING ON OUR PURPOSE OUR VISION OUR PURPOSE To be The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
To provide our customers with a choice of how to watch a movie, in modern state-of-the-art cinemas with the latest technology and a variety of retail offerings, allunderpinned by great customer service.
Latest technology markets andbrands We are technological leaders in the industry, offering our customers The geographic spread of our the latest audio and visual technology.
business reduces exposure to volatility We have seven different formats in in individual markets.
It also provides which our customers can watch a movie: opportunities across both mature regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, ScreenX, and growth markets.
Premium Large Format Superscreen and RPX and VIP auditoriums.
We set our prices according to the format the customer chooses and not the movie they choose.
Enhance we do well existing estate We have optimal management We optimise our portfolio through selected structures supported by effective refurbishment and new sites, ensuring we staff planning in our cinemas allowing deliver a consistently high quality offering teams to be focused on operational across the Group.
Innovation excellence and maximising face time construction programme is at the heart with customers.
Webelieve its the We are always striving to bring of our strategy.
Tiny Noticeable Things our people the latest innovation to our cinemas do which make the difference.
not only through technology but through the design of our new Read more page 28 and refurbished sites and retail offerings.
We achieve this through the considerable in-house experience we have across our teams.
12 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements OUR BUSINESS IS UNDERPINNED BY THE VALUE WE SHARE CUSTOMERS By delivering our vision to be The Best Place toWatch a Movie, we are ensuring that our customers feel more and OUR PEOPLE OUR TRUSTED will want to come back to our Our people are the face COMMERCIAL cinemas again and again.
They are RELATIONSHIPS focused on ensuring that our Delivering a high quality customers feel more from film slate is one of the 2.6% the very start of their cinema key external drivers of admission growth year on year experience.
While we WIDER COMMUNITIES training and development do not have control over programme is used to the content, our close and We give back to our local maintain and continually long-standing relationships communities through a range improve standards.
with the film distributors of activities and initiatives such are fundamental to as partnering with distributors providing the best and on charity screenings, providing most varied selection free shows for organisations for our customers at the and working with local schools right time.
are important to our commercial partners, $5m helping to deepen our donated by the relationships with the film Regal Foundation distributors, retail suppliers, advertisers and landlords.
EMPLOYEES The investment we make in ourpeople, particularly through learning and development, and the way we operate are key to maintaining our happy and motivated workforce.
OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH RISK MANAGEMENT 12 years Focus on cost enables us to AND GOVERNANCE average length of maintain healthy margins, Maintaining and monitoring manager service which in turn drive the cash an effective system of risk flow needed to continue to management and internal INVESTORS invest in and expand our control ensures that our We remain focused on estate.
This continued business, people and assets driving revenues, increasing investment ensures that we are safeguarded and that earnings and prudently are able to reach as many material financial errors managing our cash position, customers as possible with and irregularities are to ultimately provide returns to the high quality experience prevented or detected.
We create value we believe in.
We manage for shareholders through our investment in our estate focus on continually aiming to in conjunction with the enhance the experience for our maintenance of a strong customers.
We share the value Balance Sheet, making the we generate by reinvesting in business financially secure, the business and expanding our flexible and able to make offer to customers, rewarding returns to shareholders.
our employees and paying dividends to our shareholders.
9.4% Adjusted Pro-forma Read more page 31 EBITDA growth Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
