Regulators External Audit provided by KPMG ACCOUNTABILITY ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDIT AND FINANCIAL The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code: The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a there is an ongoing and robust process for identifying, fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the financial position and prospects.
The detailed work to ensure Group for more details please see Principal Risks and this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27 : statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
the Companys systems of risk management and internal control have been in place for the year under review, are RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL regularly reviewed by the Executive Directors and the The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, Board, and are deemed to be effective with no monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk significant weaknesses identified: and management and internal control.
These systems provide the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded management, internal control and related financial and that material financial errors and irregularities are business reporting.
prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
The Group approach is implemented using the principles of the Three Lines of Defence model, as illustrated in the diagram below.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the During the year, the Board has directly, and through Executive Management Team, has overall responsibility delegated authority to the Executive Management Team for implementing an effective risk management approach.
and the Audit Committee, overseen and reviewed the The Group approach is governed by its Risk Management performance and evolution of the approach to risk Framework which has been updated to incorporate the management and internal control.
acquisition of Regal that sets out the policy, oversight The ongoing review and evaluation of risk management and structure, accountability and processes for monitoring internal control is undertaken by the Risk and Assurance team and reporting of risk within the Group, and facilitates the whose key responsibilities are: following objectives for risk management: Risk Management to identify, measure, control and report on business risk that would potentially undermine the achievement of the Group Internal Audit strategic objectives, both strategically and operationally, Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention through appropriate analysis and assessment criteria: to better allocate effort and resources for the management Insurance of key and emerging risks: to drive business improvements and improve intelligence for key decision-making: and to support and develop the Companys reputation as a well governed and trusted organisation.
OUR THREE LINES OF DEFENCE BOARD AND COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OPERATIONS SUPPORT US FUNCTIONS UK CEE 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line Process and control implementation Group and territory Independent challenge to the and development at cinemas oversight monitoring and levels of assurance provided by strategy policy setting management on the effectiveness Operationalise: of governance, risk management Cinema operating manuals Support and review: and internal controls policies and processes Operational performance reviews Challenge and assure: Regional district manager Executive Directors oversight and Risk-based audits oversight challenge Financial controls reviews Training and development Group Board and Committee oversight and challenge Cinema compliance assurance Regulation and Compliance programme Financial oversight and review Health and safety assurance Risk Management Framework programme design and implementation Insurance inspections Assistance in process and control development Fraud and loss prevention monitoring Management self-assessments PCI Testing Customer satisfaction surveys IT and information security assurance activity 48 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements The application of the key components of the Risk Each cinema in the UK and ROW has been risk assessed Management Framework have been as follows: based on financial, operational and management information to determine which cinemas would be included in the audit Oversight structure and accountability The risk management programme for the year.
For the US, the Group approach is oversight and accountability structure which is in the process in the process of being embedded.
of being fully embedded in the US has ensured that risk consideration is from both a top-down and bottom-up Quarterly management reporting of key themes and trends perspective.
The Group maintains a Principal Risk Register help support the Group to make continued improvements.
as well as operational risk registers for support functions, In addition to the programme of on-site reviews conducted by cinema operations and specific projects.
the Risk and Assurance team, an annual self-assessment audit Ongoing process At each level the risk assessment process is undertaken by each cinema in the UK and ROW.
is based on five key steps: Fraud detection and loss prevention To support the Group 1.
Risk identification using cause and effect analysis in fraud detection and loss prevention, ongoing analysis of our key data sources is undertaken to swiftly identify any irregular 2.
Assessment of inherent risk severity transaction activity that could indicate instances of fraud, loss 3.
Identification of existing controls and assessment or failure of procedural compliance.
Specialist software to of effectiveness support the analysis is in place in the UK and is in the process of being rolled out across the Group.
Assessment of residual risk severity External audit The External Auditor provides a supplementary, 5.
Development and implementation of risk mitigation independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of Details of the Groups principal risks and how they are being the internal control system which it assesses in the course of managed or mitigated are provided on pages 22 to 27. its work.
Its findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
As part of this process, risk appetite is considered by the Operational controls The Executive Directors, on a day-toBoard annually for each of the principal risks, allowing the day basis, are involved in reviewing the key operations of the Board to clearly set out the nature and extent of the risk business through their interaction with their Senior Management the Group is willing to accept, and the level of investment teams across the Group and their discussions on operational in control in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
Escalation, monitoring and reporting A clear escalation Financial control The Group has internal control and risk policy is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are management arrangements in relation to the Groups financial notified up through the governance structure as required.
reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated Risk leads are identified for all risks and have the responsibility accounts.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the for ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect and the progress against the implementation of further transactions, to enable the preparation of financial statements mitigating actions.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, as appropriate, with reasonable There is a cycle of ongoing monitoring and reporting activities assurance, and that require reported data to be reviewed and in place with risk information being presented to the Board reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the and Audit Committee.
Culture To support embedding the application of the Risk Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of reporting to the Executive Directors and monthly reporting the Group, ongoing training and communication have been to the Board.
Capital investment and all revenue expenditure delivered by the Risk and Assurance team.
is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with post-investment and period end reviews as required.
INTERNAL CONTROL A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the system of internal control to the Executive Management Team.
The Other assurance activities A programme of health and detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the safety food safety audits delivered by outsourced providers Audit Committee.
Senior Management within each part of the takes place in each of the countries.
Group are responsible for internal control and risk management As a result of the introduction of GDPR in the year, additional within their own area and for ensuring compliance with the assurance activity focused on reviewing the maturity of the Groups policies and procedures.
Group in the application of the regulation has been undertaken.
The Audit Committee has oversight of the programme of In line with our requirements under PCI, an independent assurance activities to allow for its ongoing review of the security assessor provided a report on our compliance.
The delivery of this assurance programme is undertaken by the Risk and Assurance team, Policies and procedures The Group has in place a range of which is supported by specialist advisors as required.
governance related policies which are regularly reviewed and communicated to employees.
These include Whistleblowing, Details of the activities the Audit Committee during 2018 Gifts and Hospitality, and Health and Safety.
For more details are set out on pages 50 to 53. of the Groups policies see the Resources and Relationships Internal audit The internal audit plan is a combination of section on pages 28 to 30.
Group-wide risk-based reviews providing assurance over the key controls relied upon for the principal risks, financial controls testing and additional specific reviews requested by management.
The Risk and Assurance team has been supported by PwC for the UK and ROW and LBMC for the US to deliver the plan.
Cinema compliance The Cinema Compliance programme has operated across the Group with reviews being undertaken to understand the application of the key controls within the operational procedures in the areas of cash, retail, payroll HR and operations.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has had an important focus this year, following the fundamental changes to the Group flowing from the Regal acquisition.
Chair Julie Southern Commitee members Alicja Kornasiewicz Dean Moore Number of scheduled meetings 5 held in 2018 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee As is further described in the Accountability section on DEAR SHAREHOLDERS pages 48 to 49, a significant amount of work has been I am pleased to present this report on the activities of the dedicated to embedding Group processes and procedures Audit Committee for 2018. across Regal, in addition to our ongoing review work to The Committee has had an important focus this year, following ensure our systems of risk management and internal control the fundamental changes to the Group flowing from the Regal remain sufficiently robust.
As a Committee, it has been important to refresh Following on from the review work carried out by the our view of our role in the context of the new Group, to fully Committee in respect of the acquisition itself, we spent understand the changes to our areas of responsibility and a significant amount of time in 2018 reviewing the work focus, in particular in relation to internal controls, systems, of the External Auditor and Management on acquisition and risk management.
Indeed, a number of the work-streams emanating The existing structural strength of the assurance framework from the work on acquisition accounting directly link with and risk management systems, involving the Group Finance the Committees consideration of areas of significant risk in Team, the Risk and Assurance Team, the external auditor, relation to the financial statements, and the development of and the supporting Management teams across the Groups our understanding of how these would be addressed.
More territories, meant that we were well-positioned to expand information on how we considered and assessed these areas processes and procedures to cover the new US element of is set out on pages 52 to 53. the business.
Indeed, the strength of the Group team and the In addition, we have spent time preparing for the implementation ability of the UK and US teams to work productively together of new accounting standards, in particular IFRS 16, and monitoring was demonstrated by the successful extension of the existing the preparatory work being carried out by the Management US Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system across the UK team in this regard.
Further details may be found on page 98. business, a substantial project that completed in the early part The Committee will continue to monitor this project, to ensure of 2019. a smooth transition to the new rules.
In order to continue the evolution in our approach to Internal Lastly, on 12 March 2019, it was announced that I will be Audit, towards the end of 2018 we undertook a tender exercise stepping down as a Board Director and Chair of the Audit to find a partner to support the Risk and Assurance Team in Committee at the conclusion of the AGM in May 2019. the delivery of internal audit plans for the coming three years.
DeanMoore, who is currently a member of the Committee, As a result of the exercise, the Group has decided to appoint will become Chair of the Audit Committee when I step down.
BDO as our Internal Audit supplier, working with the Team to Iwish Dean and the Committee every success for the future.
ensure the Audit Committee receives the requisite assurance on the effectiveness of risk management and internal control within the business.
Julie Southern CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 50 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements received and discussed in the absence of management, COMPOSITION where appropriate reports from the External Auditor in For the duration of the year, the Committee comprised three respect of its review of the interim results, the internal audit Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Julie Southern plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These Chair, Alicja Kornasiewicz, and Dean Moore.
Both Julie and reports included the scope for the interim review and annual Dean are Chartered Accountants, and are considered by the audit, the approach to be adopted by the External Auditor Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The to evaluate and conclude on key areas of the audit, its Committee as a whole is considered to have competence assessment of materiality, the terms of engagement and relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
raising awareness to the Committee of the likely impact of As announced on 12 March, Julie Southern will not be future changes to regulation and accounting standards: seeking re-election at the 2019 AGM, and will step down monitored the performance of the Risk and Assurance team at the conclusion of the meeting.
It is planned that including input from PwC, and reviewed the effectiveness of Dean Moore will become Chair of the Audit Committee the Groups internal financial controls together with its broader following Julies departure.
internal control and Risk Management Framework, to ensure The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief consistent and appropriate financial controls across the Group: Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other Directors considered the combined Prospectus and Circular in relation and Senior Executives, the Head of Risk and Assurance, the to the acquisition of Regal and, following the completion of Internal Auditor and the External Auditor may be invited to the transaction in February 2018, monitored the acquisition attend meetings, but are not members.
accounting work of Management and the External Auditor: THE ROLE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES reviewed the accounting papers provided by management OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE on the upcoming changes to IFRS accounting standards and The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are set out their potential impact on the Groups financial statements: in its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys monitored the implementation of the Groups internal website www.
com en about-us corporateaudit plan for 2018, including further embedding the Risk governance.
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its Management Framework, the risk-based assurance plan responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, the control for the financial control environment, and the Group-wide environment, the work of the External and Internal Auditors, and cinema compliance programme: the Risk and Assurance team, including: reviewed the results of non-financial audits including food monitoring the financial reporting process: hygiene and fire safety and where applicable agreed reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Interim Reports, enhancements to procedures and reviewed remedial actions: including reviewing significant financial judgements therein: made recommendations to the Board with regard to reviewing the Groups risk assessment process, the output of continuing the appointment and remuneration of the that assessment and the associated risk management systems: External Auditor, oversaw the Groups relations with the External Auditor, determined its independence and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls: monitored the effectiveness of the audit process: considering the scope of the Internal and External Auditors discussed the requirements for a longer-term viability activities, and the work of the Risk and Assurance team, their statement and the related assessment work to enable reports and their effectiveness: the Board to make such a statement: reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work continued to monitor the ongoing requirements regarding undertaken by the External Auditor: and audit tender: and advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
reviewed the Committees terms of reference and carried The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the out a performance evaluation as required by the Code.
Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
The results of the evaluation confirmed that the Committee is performing satisfactorily and providing strong support WHAT THE COMMITTEE DID IN 2018 to the Board.
The Committee met five times during the year, during which time it: GOING CONCERN In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis for monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed preparing the financial statements, the Committee considered the interim and annual financial statements including the business activities, as well as the Groups principal risks the preliminary announcement with particular reference and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 to 27, the financial to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and together with significant estimates and financial reporting borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies judgements and the disclosures made therein: and processes for managing capital, as described on pages considered the interim results and the Annual Report and 31to 35 and the financial risk management objectives, details Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing papers to credit risk and liquidity risk as set out in Note 24 to the prepared by management with regard to this principle.
This included reviewing the documents to ensure that the description of the business agrees with the Committees own understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern the Group, the discussion of performance properly reflects the relevant period, and there is a clear link between all the areas of disclosure: Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACCOUNTING FOR JOINT ARRANGEMENTS VIABILITY As part of the Regal acquisition the Group acquired a Part of the Committees work in the year has been to discuss significant share in Digital Cinema Implementation Partners and consider the requirement under the Code for a longerDCIP, a joint arrangement with other US exhibitors set up term viability statement, and the related assessment work to collect and administrate Virtual Print Fee VPF income needed in order to enable the Directors to make such a received from studios to compensate exhibitors for their statement.
The Directors Viability Statement, together investment in digital projection equipment.
Through a long with details of the assessment work, is set out on page 27 term leasing arrangement with DCIP, the exhibitors retain with a summary on page 37, Board Statements.
control over the projection equipment it has acquired.
In addition, the Group determined that under the terms of the SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED IN leasing arrangements and the associated minimum rental RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS charges expected to be made, it has a joint obligation for During the year the Committee, management and the External the debt taken out by DCIP to finance the acquisition of Auditor considered and concluded what the significant risks the projection equipment.
and issues were in relation to the financial statements and how these would be addressed.
In relation to the 2018 Group Under the requirements of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements financial statements, following the acquisition of Regal, management had to assess whether the joint arrangement additional significant risks have been identified which are agreement in relation DCIP should be accounted for as a joint outlined as follows: venture or as a joint operation.
Management prepared an analysis of the DCIP arrangement against IFRS 11 which was ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING FOR REGAL presented to the Committee.
Based on the Committees review On 28 February 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of and discussions with management and the external auditors Regal Entertainment Group by means of an acquisition of the we concurred that, with joint control over the material assets entire issued, and to be issued share capital of Regal.
and liabilities of DCIP, it should classified as a joint operation.
An exercise to identify and establish the fair value of the total Further details of this arrangement can be found in Note 13 net identifiable assets of the acquired business was undertaken to the Financial Statements.
purchase price allocation PPA with the preliminary results The Group also acquired the National Cinema Media NCM presented in the 2018 Interim Report.
Given the complex joint arrangement as part of the Regal acquisition.
Within nature of the valuation exercise, and the judgemental nature the NCM arrangement the advertising contract requires an of assumptions which were sensitive to change, the fair estimate in respect of its fair value to the Group.
In estimating value assessments were presented on a provisional basis in the the fair value management have made a number of key Interim Report.
This exercise was refined and finalised during assumptions, being the fair value of advertising revenue per the second half of the year.
The refinements made impacted attendance and the level of attendance over the contract the fair value of property, plant and equipment PPE and period.
Management have presented their methodology, onerous lease provisions most significantly.
The process assumptions and rationale to the Committee.
The Committee resulted in a final goodwill recognised of $4,625.8m.
has satisfied itself that the approach applied was appropriate, Full details of the assessed fair values are discussed further in the assumptions reasonable and adequate disclosure around Note 18 to the financial statements.
Based on the Committees the valuation has been provided in the financial statements, enquiries of management and the review of work performed by including sensitivity analysis.
Further details can be found in external valuation experts, the Committee satisfied itself that: Note 12 to the Financial Statements.
the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets VALUATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT with particular reference to the identification and valuation As detailed in Note 10 to the financial statements, there of intangible assets, PPE fair value assessments and the is a significant inherent risk that elements of the Groups accounting for investments was consistent with the advice considerable PPE balances may prove to be irrecoverable, received from external experts: due to fluctuations in the underlying performance of cinemas or one-off events.
Given the number of factors involved in the fair value exercise was thorough and included all predicting the performance of cinema sites operated by the categories of assets and liabilities including all lease Group, in multiple countries, this gives rise to an element of contracts, revenue contracts and provisions : judgement being applied to the potential level of impairments management have performed a detailed balance sheet to be recognised on a cash generating unit CGU basis, review and are satisfied that the classification of assets and predominantly at cinema site level.
liabilities is correct and that recognition is appropriate: and At each Balance Sheet date, management prepares an the subjectivity of the valuation process, including the extent assessment which estimates the value in use of the CGUs to of fair value adjustments, was appropriately disclosed in the which the tangible fixed assets are allocated.
Where individual annual financial statements.
sites cash flows are not considered independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one site, they may be combined into a single CGU.
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of one-off events, expected cost increases and discount rates are updated to reflect managements best estimate.
When considering the appropriateness of the discount rate, management assess the territory specific discount rates, and ensure that they are updated for current market information and the Groups current leverage.
52 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements At the year end management prepared their valuation INDEPENDENCE, APPOINTMENT AND TENDER models for the Committees consideration, together with The Committee last conducted a tender process in February their proposed site impairments, and drew the Committees 2016 and, following that process, decided to recommend to attention to any specific judgements taken within the models, the Board that KPMG be reappointed as External Auditor.
including focusing particularly on one site in Israel with a large The Company will continue to comply with the relevant carrying value, which is expected to mature over a longer tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable period than most of the Groups sites.
Management confirmed under UK and EU regulations, which require the next external to the Committee that they have applied a consistent Groupaudit tender to occur by 2026.
In addition, the External Auditor wide methodology in the preparation of the valuation models.
will be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the The Committee satisfied itself that the approach was appropriate, Group audit every five years and, as a result, the current lead the assumptions reasonable and the impairments proposed audit partner will be required to change in 2021.
The Committee were complete and accurate.
The Committee also satisfied continues to review the auditor appointment and the need to itself through enquiry of management and review of the Board tender the audit.
papers that all significant events which may have impacted on the valuation of PPE had been appropriately captured in The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess managements assumptions and reflected in the valuation whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and models and that appropriate disclosures, including in relation confirm this to the Committee.
KPMG has provided this to sensitivities, had been included in the financial statements.
In addition, the Company considers it has complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys EXTERNAL AUDIT Statutory Audit Services Order.
The Committee reviews the appointment of the External Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences and NON-AUDIT SERVICES in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes note of The Committee considers the independence of the External the quality of the service received, the proposed fees and the Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to Auditors independence.
Management and all members of the consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the Committee are consulted during the process.
Further details External Auditor to perform non-audit services.
In particular, of these processes are set out below.
under its terms of reference, all non-audit work and the associated fees need to be approved by the Committee if EFFECTIVENESS the value of such work is likely to be greater than 30,000.
During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed its effectiveness as The only non-audit service subject to Audit Committee External Auditor.
The effectiveness of the 2017 audit was approval provided by KPMG to the Group during 2018 related assessed by reference to the following: to its review of the Groups interim statement, for which fees of 0.06m were agreed.
the effectiveness of the lead audit, engagement partner, including the support provided to the Committee: The Committee is satisfied that the above work was best undertaken by KPMG and that its objectivity and independence the planning and scope of the audit including identification as auditor has not been impaired by reason of this further of areas of audit risk and communication of any changes work.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees may be found to the plan, and changes in perceived audit risks: in Note 5 to the financial statements.
the quality of communication with the Committee, including the regular reports on accounting matters, INSURANCE governance and control: It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group has in place an insurance the competence with which the External Auditor handled programme to help protect it against certain insurable risks.
key accounting and audit judgements and communication The portfolio of insurance policies is kept under regular of those to management and the Committee: review with the Companys insurance broker to ensure KPMGs reputation and standing, including its independence that the policies are appropriate to the Groups activities and objectivity and its internal quality procedures: and and exposures taking into account cost, and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
Further, at the conclusion of each years audit, the Committee discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers considering areas such as the quality of the audit team, business understanding, audit approach and management.
Where appropriate, actions are agreed against points raised and subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no significant findings from the evaluation this year.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the External Auditor was effective.
In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and its independence and objectivity is not compromised due to the safeguards in place.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
