MARKET DRIVERS ADDRESSING OUR BIGGEST OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES Technology Property GDP and the andinnovation marketand economic development environment Developments in technology The rate of new cinema The cinema industry have brought new innovative openings is often dependent is dependent on the audio and visual experiences on local market conditions.
customer choosing to to the cinema industry.
Planning laws, the economic spend disposable income environment and the ability on watching a movie.
THE IMPACT of developers to finance their Technology impacts the THE IMPACT projects are factors which whole customer journey from Value for money remains impact cinema location.
booking tickets to purchasing an important factor and concessions, as well as the THE IMPACT cinema has tended to be audio and visual experience.
The local market conditions a less expensive form of impact the rate and feasibility entertainment in the wider The digitalisation of cinemas of new openings as well as leisure market in which the has resulted in both a greater which sites can be refurbished.
range of films being offered Historical trends and and the streaming of live HOW OUR STRATEGY IS patterns show that cinema events such as opera, theatre OPTIMISED TO RESPOND attendance is most closely and ballet.
The Group has been related to the quality of the successful in opening 108 HOW OUR STRATEGY IS movies rather than the gross new screens over the past OPTIMISED TO RESPOND domestic product GDP year.
As the estate is generally Investment in technology of a territory.
older in the mature markets, is a key pillar of the Groups refurbishment of existing HOW OUR STRATEGY IS strategy we want to be cinemas, in particular in the OPTIMISED TO RESPOND leaders in this field.
The US and the UK, is a key focus The Group monitors local and Group was the first to launch for the Group.
Where there national markets to ensure ScreenX in Europe and the are site closures, especially ticket and concession prices US this year and 4DX in the of older sites in the US and remain a competitively priced UK in 2015, and continues to the UK, this also provides form of entertainment.
The invest and open more 4DX, further opportunities for Group invests in both the ScreenX, IMAX and Premium new investments.
estate and technology to Large Formats every year.
ensure customers receive a The Group is continually positive experience during reviewing and analysing the every visit while getting latest technology available value for money.
to ensure the right technology is selected.
The Group is also evolving its IT systems to provide customers with the ability to book online more easily and through mobile applications.
10 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Competing mediaand leisureactivities Market Competing Consolidation Cinematic maturity mediaand ofthe industry window leisureactivities Where a market is in the Throughout the decades The cinema industry There have been maturity phase this impacts the cinema industry has globally has recently seen ongoing discussions for the level and trend of cinema always faced competition an increase in acquisition a number of years about admissions per capita.
from other forms of media activity and consolidation the cinematic window, delivering content, for within the market.
the period between the THE IMPACT example video, video release of a film in a cinema The more mature markets THE IMPACT on demand VOD, and on any other platform.
such as the US, UK and Israel In 2018, Vue bought German DVD and Blu-ray.
tend to be characterised cinema group Cinestar, and THE IMPACT by higher admissions per THE IMPACT in 2016 AMC Entertainment A material reduction in capita, higher average ticket Although online streaming acquired Carmike in the US, the cinematic window prices and a lower population and the downloading of films Odeon in the UK and the could reduce the cinema per screen ratio.
Growth at home are increasingly Nordic Cinema Group in the admissions per capita.
markets have the opposite popular, an outing to the Nordics.
In the US, outside of HOW OUR STRATEGY IS characteristics and provide cinema provides a unique the top three chains, the rest OPTIMISED TO RESPOND great expansion potential experience which cannot be of the market is represented There is no expectation for the Group.
replicated at home, especially by smaller, independent that the current cinema with superior experiences cinema chains which operate HOW OUR STRATEGY IS window will change offered by technologies such in fewer countries and states.
OPTIMISED TO RESPOND significantly in the near as IMAX, 4DX and ScreenX.
The geographic spread of the HOW OUR STRATEGY IS future: however, the Group A trip to the cinema is a Group provides diversification OPTIMISED TO RESPOND continually monitors the social occasion and watching benefits and opportunities The Groups strategy status of this and regularly a movie on a large state-ofacross both the more mature includes identifying engages with the distributors the-art screen with superb and growth markets.
This potential profitable to discuss the subject.
sound is attractive to all age includes the opportunity opportunities to grow and groups.
Visiting the cinema to open new sites as well expand the business.
This remains a convenient, as refurbish older sites, has included the acquisition affordable out-of-home particularly in the more of Regal, making the Group activity, especially when mature markets where the the second largest operator compared with other leisure estate is generally older.
in the world by number activities such as concerts of screens, and previously and sporting events.
the acquisition in the UK HOW OUR STRATEGY IS of the six Empire cinemas.
OPTIMISED TO RESPOND The Group continues to invest in new technology to ensure the experience is unique while remaining an affordable activity for the whole family.
Going to the cinema has also become more than just watching a movie, and that is why the Group has invested in its retail offerings such as Starbucks in the UK and our VIP offering.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
