Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION At the start of the year, the Board was composed of ten Towards the end of the year, a performance evaluation was members, five of whom were considered independent.
On carried out in respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration 19 July 2018, Camela Galano was appointed to the Board and Nomination Committees and each individual Director, as an Independent Non-Executive Director and Renana including the Chairman.
As an external facilitator had been Teperberg, the Companys Chief Commercial Officer, was engaged for the 2016 performance evaluation, the Board appointed to the Board as an Executive Director.
At the decided to carry out the exercise without external assistance end of the year, the Board was therefore composed of in 2018.
The process adopted involved the completion of twelve members, six of whom are considered independent.
assessment questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee members.
The results were then collated by the For a FTSE 350 company, the Code recommends that at least Company Secretary, and a summary presented to the relevant half the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman should Committee and the Board.
The process was constructive comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board and confirmed that the Board and its Committees are to be independent.
The Board considers that Camela Galano, operating effectively.
Alicja Kornasiewicz, Dean Moore, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat and Julie Southern were, for the year or the portion of the ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION year for which they served as Non-Executive Directors, All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves Independent Non-Executive Directors.
for re-election at this years AGM, apart from Julie Southern The Board is satisfied that Dean Moore meets the requisite who will not be seeking re-election and who will stand down criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his at the conclusion of the AGM.
Directors appointed since the previous interim employment within the Group, given the last AGM will be offering themselves for election.
Biographical nature of the role he performed in the ten month period details of all the current Directors are set out on pages 38 from March 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the and39.
In view of the performance evaluation, the Board is Chief Financial Officer succession planning process.
satisfied that each Director standing for election or re-election continues to show the necessary commitment and continues Scott Rosenblum is not viewed as independent because to be an effective member of the Board due to his or her skills, of his previous business dealings with the Greidinger family expertise and business acumen.
and its interests, and as he is the Global City Theatres B. V. appointee under the Relationship Agreement as described RE-ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN on page 68 of the Directors Report.
The Board believes that the re-election of Anthony Bloom as The names of the Directors at the year end, together with Chairman of the Board is in the best interests of shareholders.
their biographical details, are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Anthony has a comprehensive understanding of the Groups business and operations and played a key role in the Companys The terms and conditions of appointment of the Noncombination with Cinema City in 2014 and, more recently, the Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment acquisition of Regal.
He also brings to the role extensive and are made available for inspection by any person at board-level and chairman experience in a range of companies, the Companys registered office during normal business sectors and jurisdictions.
As announced on 17January 2019, hours, and will be available at the AGM.
Further details of Alicja Kornasiewicz has been appointed as Deputy Chair, and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors will become Chair of the Board at the conclusion of the 2020 and the service contracts of the Executive Directors AGM, following the planned retirement of Anthony Bloom.
can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy as published in the 2017 Annual Report available on CHAIRMANS COMMITMENTS the Companys website.
The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective but the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere viewpoint and range of experience to the Group and ensure with the performance of the Chairmans duties to the Group.
that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Boards decision-making.
They play a key role in reviewing proposals and providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in respect of strategy.
They also ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
All the Non-Executive Directors have access to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board and following the agreed procedure.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS The Directors value contact with the Companys AND RESPONDING TO THEIR NEEDS institutional and private investors.
An Annual Report is sent to all new shareholders and is otherwise made available to shareholders via the Companys website unless they have specifically requested that a copy is sent to them.
Presentations are given to shareholders and analysts following the announcement of the interim results and the preliminary announcement of the full year results.
EMPLOYEES Trading updates are typically issued in advance Nurturing talent is a key part of the full year results and the interim results.
of our people strategy and, in Separate announcements of all material events support of our growth strategy, are made as necessary.
we are proud that over the last In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, 12 months more than 50% of Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial cinema management positions Officer, who have regular contact with shareholders, were filled by internal applicants.
the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet with shareholders as and when required.
Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
The whole Board is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes in the Companys share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are available at the AGM WIDER to answer questions, and that all Directors attend.
COMMUNITY Our work with charities, schools, The Companys website www.
com and community groups across all provides an overview of the business.
Major Group our territories is very important announcements are available on the website and to us.
We are involved with a new announcements are published without delay.
wide range of activities including All major announcements are approved by the working with distributors on charity Chairman and Executive Directors and circulated to screenings, providing free shows for the Board prior to issue.
The Group also has internal organisations and working closely and external checks to guard against unauthorised with local schools.
SHAREHOLDERS The Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors.
44 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Our customers are key to our CUSTOMERS success.
We focus on ensuring that they have a positive experience every time to increase the likelihood of repeat visits.
INDUSTRY BODIES We work closely with industry bodies throughout our territories.
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND RESPONDING TO THEIR NEEDS ENVIRONMENT SUPPLIERS Being a multisite business, the We work hard at developing and Group is conscious of its total maintaining good relationships with a energy consumption and amount range of film studios and distributors.
of waste materials generated, and is Strong relationships with our principal actively working on reducing both.
retail suppliers enable us to work together on promotions that help drive retail sales.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 EFFECTIVENESS: NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT It has been a busy year for the Committee, involving a number of important developments in the composition of our Board.
Finding a successor for the Chairmanship was one of our key tasks.
Chair Rick Senat Committee members Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Number of scheduled meetings 2 held in 2018 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee Following the extensive review process, it was decided that DEAR SHAREHOLDERS Alicja was the outstanding candidate, with an exceptional I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination background, and remarkable business acumen.
The Committee Committee and its activities during the year.
wishes Alicja every success going forward, and would also It has been a busy year for the Committee, involving a number like to acknowledge the exceptional value, dedication, and of important developments in the composition of our Board.
stewardship of outgoing Chairman, Anthony Bloom.
Finding a successor for the Chairmanship was one of our In addition, in July 2018, we announced the appointment key tasks and, in January of this year, we announced that Alicja of Camela Galano and Renana Teperberg to the Board as Kornasiewicz has been appointed as Deputy Chair, and will Independent Non-Executive Director and Executive Director become Chair of the Board at the conclusion of the 2020 AGM, respectively.
Renana has a long history with the business, and when current Chairman, Anthony Bloom, will be stepping down.
will no doubt lend considerable value and strength to the The process was carefully planned and, with the help of Board.
Camela is an experienced international film executive, external advisors, the Committee thoroughly considered with valuable experience and knowledge of the US market.
the attributes required for such an important leadership role, On 12 March 2019, we announced that Julie Southern will not especially taking into account the new challenges and changes be seeking re-election at the AGM in May and will step down to the business as it embarks on its next chapter following the at that point.
Dean Moore will become Chair of the Audit Regal acquisition.
A number of candidates were interviewed Committee, and Alicja Kornasiewicz will become Chair of the by me, and my fellow Committee members.
Remuneration Committee, following Julies departure.
Plans for the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director are under way, a process that will be led by the Nomination Committee.
More details of our diversity policy may be found on page 47, however I am pleased to note that the Company received a positive rating in the 2018 Hampton-Alexander Review, which reviews the pipeline of female talent below Board level.
Rick Senat CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 46 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements COMPOSITION RECRUITMENT PROCESS FOR During the year, the Committee comprised three Non-Executive BOARD DIRECTORS Directors namely Rick Senat Chair, Scott Rosenblum, and It was announced on 19 July 2018 that Renana Teperberg, Arni Samuelsson.
While Rick Senat and Arni Samuelsson the Companys Chief Commercial Officer, had been appointed are considered to be independent, Scott Rosenblum is not.
to the Board as an Executive Director.
It was also announced The majority of the Committee are independent as required that Camela Galano had been appointed to the Board as an by the Code.
With regard to the appointment of Camela, the services of an external search THE ROLE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES agency were not required, as Camela was nominated by OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE an internal source.
This initial nomination was followed by The Committee assists the Board in discharging its a rigorous and independent interview process, led by the responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
With regard to the recruitment responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and process for the Chairmanship, Board advisers AGM Transitions experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition were engaged.
AGM Transitions has no connection with the of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and Company, other than the succession planning advice which replacement Directors, and the independence of Directors, and it has provided to the Company over the past three years.
it makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
It is also responsible for ensuring that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties on appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the financial year and held a number of additional meetings as required on an ad hoc basis, including in relation to succession planning for the Chairmanship.
THE RIGHT SKILLS ANDEXPERIENCE Due to the important role that the Directors play in the All Directors have a good understanding of the markets, success of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend countries, regulatory and risk management frameworks meetings, and does so, except when his own position or within which the Group operates, as well as the technology his successor is being discussed.
The biographies of the Directors highlight the skills and experience each Director brings to the Board.
During the year the Committee reviewed its own performance, reviewed the structure of the Board and the three Committees, 1 and discussed succession and diversity issues.
Balance of the Board Length of tenure of 1 Non-Executive Directors BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY While the Committee considers diversity to be important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, it believes that the single most important factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role.
It is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
As part of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds, including different ethnic backgrounds, should be considered and, where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise Chairman 1 0-2 years 2 candidates of different genders.
Executive Directors 4 3-6 years 4 Non-Executive Directors 7 7 years 2 1 As at 31 December 2018.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
