CHAIRMANS LETTER A TRANSFORMATIVE YEAR Anthony Bloom CHAIRMAN The Groups UK and ROW operations also continued to perform OVERVIEW well, against a bar set very high by 2017s record year in Europe.
2018 was a transformative year for the Cineworld Group.
Iam pleased to report that the UK achieved revenue growth of The acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group Regal 3.3% with the figure for ROW revenue growth being 3.6%.
on 28 February made us into a global operator and the second largest cinema chain in the world.
By the end of 2018, Following the combination with Cinema City International N. V. the Group was operating 9,518 screens in 790 sites across Cinema City in 2014, the Board and Executive Management 10countries.
This significant achievement would have been Team adopted a Strategic Operating Plan which consists of: difficult to imagine when we began operations in 1996. the opening of new cinemas in areas considered to have the Since that time, both profits and dividends have increased potential for double digit growth rates: each year, and in the UK alone over 5,000 jobs have been the pursuit of suitable acquisition opportunities: created.
The Group is very proud of this record and I am confident its growth will continue in the future.
the refurbishment of the existing estate by introducing state-of-the-art design and installing the latest cutting So it gives me great pleasure to present shareholders with edge screening and other technology: this Annual Report, being the Groups first inclusive of the results of our US operations.
As you will see, the acquisition a consistent focus on cost reduction: has proved very successful commercially as regards the the implementation of a programme to continuously integration of the business.
optimise the customer experience: and Group Pro-forma revenue for the year increased by 7.2% to always living up to our vision to be The Best Place $4,711.4m 2017:$4,394.5m, and Adjusted Pro-forma EBITDA to Watch a Movie.
The growth was driven by the inclusion of the US operations, where on a Pro-forma During this landmark year in the Groups development, this basis, revenue and Adjusted EBTIDA for the Regal business Strategic Operating Plan remained the focus for generating grew by 8.6% and 13.2% respectively.
These broad objectives remain relevant for the Group and going forward will be extended to encompass The US now represents 74.8% of revenue on a Pro-forma the operations of Regal.
basis with the UK representing 14.8% and the Rest of the World ROW 10.4%.
As the US is by far the largest segment of the Groups operations, the Board has decided that the Groups results should be reported in US dollars to provide a more meaningful picture of its activities: this Annual Report is the first in that currency.
02 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
