REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION For the duration of the year, the Companys Remuneration Committee comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Dean Moore Chair, Rick Senat, and JulieSouthern.
As announced on 12 March 2019, it is planned that Alicja Kornasiewicz will become Chair of the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
The Committee met for four scheduled meetings during the year and, in addition, held a number of adhoc meetings to deal with specific issues.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The activities of the Committee are covered in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 66, and are incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors, and monitoring and approving the remuneration of Senior Management below Board level.
The Committee appointed PwC as external advisers in September 2017 and took advice from them during the year.
PwC has no other connections with Cineworld except the provision internal audit support to the Risk and Assurance Team.
The Committee is comfortable that the PwC engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
On appointment as advisors, the Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were no conflicts or potential conflicts arising.
The Company receives advice in relation to the Remuneration Policy and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management.
The terms of engagement with PwC are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions by invitation except when his own position is being discussed.
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of the Group, the Chairman of the Board is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 55 to 66.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
By order of the Board Anthony Bloom CHAIRMAN 28 March 2019 54 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
