Our business model Our unrivalled breadth of service and global reach, delivered 24 7, 365 days a year, spans 50 offices in 23 countries, and is supported by over 1,500 employees.
It enables us to be where our clients need us to be.
24 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Clarksons is the worlds leading provider of integrated services and investment banking capabilities to the shipping and offshore markets, facilitating global trade.
Founded in 1852, we offer our diverse and growing client base an unrivalled range of shipbroking services, sector research, on-hand logistical support and full investment banking capabilities in all key shipping and offshore sectors.
We are committed to providing our clients with outstanding service, offering them unique market insights supported by our up-to-the-minute data analysis and deep sector expertise.
Our advanced technology platform continues to differentiate our business as we drive innovation across the shipping industry.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 25 e d a r t l a b o l G g n i k o r B s F t r e e s i g s h A t F i y T n e g c o l a h o n Our business model continued The resources and How we create value relationships we need to create value Employees Our people are our most important asset, with our success dependent on the strength of our teams across the business.
See more in resources and relationships on pages 32 to 37.
Clients We build and nurture strong Research relationships with our clients, whilst Smarter continuing to provide them with our decisions.
Powered by See more in resources and relationships intelligence.
Market insight Our research team are the global market leaders, producing and validating data, analysis, key insights and valuations across all sectors of the shipping and offshore markets.
See more in our markets on pages 18 to 23.
Technology and innovation Our cutting-edge technology is driving innovation in the industry and enables us to provide unique solutions for our Our value-creating activities are underpinned by clients, so they can make informed decisions efficiently.
Our values Our culture Through our values integrity, Our culture promotes an See more in resources and relationships excellence, fairness and inclusive I want to work here on pages 32 to 37. transparency we drive ethos and our flat management behaviours which deliver the structure means employees have highest quality service to clients access to senior management, Financial strength whilst ensuring we conduct encouraging open We are listed on the London Stock business in an ethical, honest communication across the Exchange.
We have a strong balance and professional manner.
Group and fostering strong sheet, no bank borrowings and are business performance.
cash-generative, enabling us See more on page 33. to fund growth.
See more in the financial review Our governance Our technology on pages 60 to 63.
We adhere to high principles of Our investment in technology corporate governance to ensure ensures we remain at the good decision-making and forefront of the shipping industry sustainability of the business.
and continue to innovate and develop new services for clients.
26 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report n n o h l o c c g e i T y a l O o w g r n a e C r s t r o p p u S e d a r t l a b o l G Strategic report Our key stakeholders and the value we generate Employees We are focused on hiring and retaining the best people, providing them with the right support, tools and training to enable their success.
Number of employees with over five years service 47% Clients We provide our clients with the most relevant data and unique market insights aided by innovative technological solutions, arming them with the tools and information needed to make key business decisions efficiently.
Viewings of Shipping Intelligence Network in 2018 5.2m Society Our skills and knowledge help to support the continuation of world trade in an effective manner, ensuring that countries receive the raw materials necessary to develop and grow whilst people have access to essential food and goods.
Tonnes of cargo shipped per person per year 1.6 Shareholders We continue to deliver value to our shareholders through our progressive dividend policy, whilst maintaining a solid financial standing and strong balance sheet to take advantage of market opportunities.
Years of consecutive dividend growth 16 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 27
