Our strategy Market Our strategy is to create long-term sustainable trends value for all of our stakeholders by building on our strong performance, which allows us to maintain and develop our position as the global market leader in shipping services.
World seaborne trade Strategic objective Strategic objective Strategic objective Expanding Extending Stronger 43% our breadth to our reach understanding better tailor our to support of clients World population integrated offer clients globally needs With an expanding and Our global presence enables Our client base ranges 11% industry-leading range us to meet client needs from oil majors, raw material of products and services wherever and whenever producers and longthat span the maritime and they arise.
With 50 offices established shipowning Seaborne trade financial markets, we are in 23 countries, and growing, families.
We have worked per capita uniquely positioned to deliver we share understanding, with many of our clients for bespoke commercial culture, IT systems and generations, building a deep solutions to our clients.
high standards of corporate understanding of their 28% governance across businesses and providing our business.
the services that have helped them to prosper.
We have Global fleet in dwt terms more touch points across the industry than anyone else, 64% enabling us to offer unique and tailored solutions to meet our clients needs.
Changes based on the ten-year period between 2009 and 2018.
See more in our markets on pages 18 to 23.
What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 We have welcomed a new We completed our first year We have continued to invest renewables team, re-entered of operations in South Korea, in IT, as we improve and the wet FFA market and expanded our team and expand the applications and established a new offering in Japan and tools we use both internally convertible bond desk, established a subsidiary and externally in order to as well as expanding our in Canada to introduce enhance our client offering.
presence in the LNG market.
our Securities services to the Canadian market.
28 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Strategic objective Strategic objective Strategic objective Empowering Maintaining Growing people to trust in our business fulfil their shipping to improve potential intelligence performance We are committed to As a globally-respected We are a consistently attracting and retaining the market leader in the provision profitable and cashbest people, providing them of data and intelligence generative business with the tools and training across shipping, trade, that is focused on creating that empower them to fulfil offshore and energy, our long-term value for our their potential.
research is trusted across the shareholders.
shipping industry to inform effective decision-making.
Our database tracks over 140,000 ships and 7,000 offshore oil and gas fields.
Last year, Shipping Intelligence Network was viewed more than five million times.
What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 We held another successful Our wide-ranging and We have increased our tanker training week in proprietary database dividend for the 16th Dubai, as well as offering continued to expand with consecutive year, whilst our employee training an ongoing focus on market remaining cash-generative in a variety of formats relevance, depth and and increasing our free to suit individual needs.
was supported by our data analytics team, deriving a range of additional data utilising innovative techniques.
Strong investments into the underlying architecture and functionality of our digital offer took place in 2018.
These investments helped capture the benefits of our expanded database and utilise new technologies, including data visualisation and customisation tools.
