Effectiveness Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder At a glance I am pleased to introduce my first Nomination Committee Comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors: report since my appointment as Chair of both the Board and 1 Bill Thomas, Chair this Committee on 13 February 2019.
Due to the temporary Peter Backhouse, Senior Independent Director absence of James Hughes-Hallett from the Board during Marie-Louise Clayton, independent Non-Executive Director 2018 as he recovered from illness, the majority of Nomination James Hughes-Hallett, independent Non-Executive Director Committee meetings were chaired by Ed Warner other than 2 Dr Tim Miller, independent Non-Executive Director where succession to the chairmanship was being discussed.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ed for his stewardship of the Committee during this period and Regular attendees at meetings include the CEO, CFO & COO James for serving as Chair of the Nomination Committee and Group Company Secretary.
in the three years prior to that.
I am delighted that James remains a member of the Nomination Committee given James Hughes-Hallett was Chair of the Nomination his knowledge of Clarksons governance arrangements.
Committee until Ed Warner assumed the role on 26 March 2018 when he was appointed as Acting Chair of the During 2018, the Nomination Committee has dedicated Company.
Ed stepped down as Chair of the Nomination a significant amount of time to our Board succession plans, Committee on 13 February 2019 on the appointment including overseeing the searches for new Directors.
Whilst of Bill Thomas as Chair.
we continue to appoint our Directors on merit against objective criteria, we believe that an effective board is The Nomination Committees key role is to oversee the Board one which is diverse in the broadest sense and represents composition and effectiveness of the Board to support a wide range of backgrounds, skills, experience, expertise planning for its progressive refreshing.
Diversity therefore goes hand-in-hand with succession planning, and was an important factor Held two scheduled meetings during 2018, and six in the Director searches conducted this year.
Attendance at the scheduled meetings is set out below.
It was reported last year that a process to identify a new Non-Executive Director had been initiated.
This was driven Unscheduled meetings were convened principally to review in part by the need to replace Ed Warner as Chair of the progress in the appointments of a new Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee, in light of him having served nine and Chair.
Peter Backhouse, as Senior Independent Director, years on the Board in June 2017.
The Nomination Committee chaired the meetings concerned with the Chair search.
was supported by an external search agency during this process, which culminated in a recommendation to the Board Scheduled meeting attendance in May 2018 to appoint Dr Tim Miller as a Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member Peter Backhouse of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
2 2 Tim has an extensive amount of relevant expertise gained 3 Marie-Louise Clayton across both his executive and non-executive career, which 1 2 the Board and all of its Committees are able to benefit from.
James Hughes-Hallett 2 2 During 2018 it was also announced that, as part of our 2 Dr Tim Miller 1 1 succession planning, the Board had determined that it was appropriate to commence a search for a new independent Ed Warner 2 2 Non-Executive Director, with a view to that person taking on the chairmanship in due course.
Following the search process, I was privileged to be asked to join Clarksons 1 Appointed on 13 February 2019. as the Chair.
3 Unable to attend due to an important prior commitment but Marie-Louise Clayton reviewed the papers beforehand and provided feedback to the Looking ahead to 2019, we recognise that developing the Committee Chair.
right talent and capabilities in the level below the Board is critical to our continued success.
The Nomination Committee will therefore be strengthening its focus on executive succession planning.
We will also be reviewing the diversity and inclusion policy for the Group as a whole, along with the initiatives which support this policy.
Finally, a key area of focus in the second half of the year will be the appointment of an external firm to facilitate an external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Bill Thomas Nomination Committee Chair 8 March 2019 Read about the annual review of the Nomination Committees effectiveness on pages 90 to 92.
84 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and its Committees, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Formulate and recommend to the Board succession plans for both the Board and senior management, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Lead the process for nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise.
Recommend the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their term of office.
Prior to recommending their re-election to shareholders, review annually the continued independence of each Non-Executive Director.
Oversee the annual effectiveness review of the Board and its Committees.
From left to right: Standing Peter Backhouse, James Hughes-Hallett Seated Dr Tim Miller, Marie-Louise Clayton, Bill Thomas Provide the Board with guidance on the treatment of Directors conflicts and conduct an annual review of the Register of Directors Conflicts.
Looking ahead to 2019, we recognise that developing the right talent and capabilities in the level below Board is The Nomination Committees critical to our continued success.
Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available at Bill Thomas www.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 85 Effectiveness continued Key topics discussed at Nomination Committee meetings in 2018 Annual effectiveness review Appointment reappointment Board composition Output of the 2017 annual of Directors Annual review of the structure, effectiveness review of the Board Extension of the appointments size and composition of the Board and the Nomination Committee, of James Hughes-Hallett and and its Committees, including including progress against Birger Nergaard for a further the balance of skills, knowledge, action plans.
three-year term and of Ed Warner experience and diversity of Approach and timescales for for a further one-year term, the Directors.
the 2018 process for reviewing following review of their both Board and Committee performance and independence.
effectiveness and performance Search for a new Non-Executive of the Non-Executive Directors.
Director and the recommendation to the Board of the appointment of Dr Tim Miller including Board Committee memberships.
Succession planning Diversity Governance Succession planning for both Review of the Board Diversity Impact of the UK Corporate Executive and Non-Executive Policy and recommendation Governance Code 2018 on Directors.
to the Board for approval.
Initiation of the search for a new Annual review of the Committees Chair, including agreement of job Terms of Reference, including how specification, selection of search the Committee had discharged agency and review of candidate its responsibilities during the year.
profiles which culminated in the appointment of Bill Thomas in February 2019.
86 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Succession planning In addition to his considerable Non-Executive Directors leadership and Board experience, The Nomination Committee reviews succession planning for Bill will make a significant the Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the tenure of the Directors is an important factor, the Nomination Committee is cognisant contribution with his experience that this cannot be reviewed in isolation.
Non-Executive Director succession planning is therefore considered of international people-intensive within a wider context which includes the size, structure and organisations, customer-focused composition of the Board: provisions under the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding Board Committee composition: service industries and the benefits of refreshing the membership of the Board relationship-based transactions Committees: and the current balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and whether it is with major clients.
appropriate to continue to challenge management and support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Peter Backhouse Senior Independent Having reviewed the factors listed above, and taking account of feedback from the last effectiveness evaluation of the Non-Executive Director Board, the Nomination Committee drew the following conclusions during 2018: The tenure of the Directors which is set out below does Chair not give rise to any immediate concerns as five of the six During 2018, the Company announced that, in light of James Non-Executive Directors will not reach the end of their Hughes-Halletts temporary absence from the Board due to second three-year term until 2020 at the earliest.
The illness, and as part of its succession planning, the Board had appointment of Bill Thomas has improved the tenure profile.
determined that it was appropriate to commence a search for None of the Non-Executive Directors have any plans a new independent Non-Executive Director, with a view to that currently to step down from the Board in the short term.
person taking on the chairmanship at the appropriate time.
The size of the Board is conducive to an effective debate, We have recently announced that Bill Thomas has been being large enough to bring a broad and diverse range appointed as Chair and, following a further review of the of backgrounds, perspectives and experiences, but not situation, that this appointment would take effect immediately so large as to be unwieldy.
The structure of the Board from 13 February 2019.
Further detail regarding Bill Thomas remains appropriate.
appointment can be found on pages 88 to 89.
The Company complies with all provisions under the Code in relation to Board Committee memberships.
To ensure that an effective Chair is in place at all times to lead The current balance of skills, knowledge, experience the Board, and that the Board will be able to act quickly when and diversity which is reviewed on an ongoing basis a search for a new Chair needs to be undertaken in the future, through a skills matrix remains appropriate.
Some areas the Nomination Committee will establish a framework for were identified where, in the medium term, the balance of Chair succession in 2019.
This will outline the process to skills, knowledge and experience could be strengthened.
be followed, as well as confirming any arrangements to These will be taken into account in any future search be implemented in the event of the Chair being temporarily for a Non-Executive Director.
Succession planning will continue to be monitored on an ongoing basis and further consideration will be given Executive positions to actions to be taken across a number of planning horizons At the direction of the Nomination Committee, the CEO once our newly appointed Chair has been able to observe has been developing his pipeline of potential successors, the operation of the Board and form his own views.
and efforts have been made to provide opportunities for these individuals to engage with the Board.
Increased focus and formality will be brought to the development of the right talent and capabilities in the level below Board during 2019.
See more on the appointments of Bill Thomas and Dr Tim Miller on pages 88 to 89.
Clarkson PLC Board tenure Expired term Unexpired term 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Bill Thomas Peter Backhouse Marie-Louise Clayton James Hughes-Hallett Dr Tim Miller Birger Nergaard Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 87 Effectiveness continued Appointments The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding appointments of new Directors and membership of Board Committees, as well as reviewing the reappointment of Directors at the end of their terms.
Appointment of Dr Tim Miller Appointment of Bill Thomas Independent Non-Executive Director Chair Our six-stage process New Remuneration Committee Chair Search driven by both succession Board decision to initiate to be identified due to Ed Warner planning and James Hughes-Halletts search process made on approaching nine-year tenure.
temporary absence from the Board the recommendation of the due to illness.
Nomination Committee Search firm chosen taking Following a selection process Following a selection process account of those firms who involving a number of firms, Spencer involving a number of firms, Spencer are signatories to the Voluntary Stuart who have no other connection Stuart who have no other connection Code of Conduct for Executive with the Company were engaged.
with the Company were engaged.
Search Firms Search firm provided with objective Experience of serving on Chair or committee chair of a criteria to assess potential a remuneration committee.
listed company, or who had played candidates against A strong understanding of the the role of a senior advisor and nuances of a people business.
A strong and independently-minded Strong track record of dealing individual who would be able to with institutional investors lead the remuneration agenda by and public markets.
Exposure to businesses with a strong emphasis on deal processes.
Proven ability to promote a collaborative, open culture.
Ability to act as a wise counsel to the CEO whilst being comfortable to challenge constructively.
Longlist debated by Nomination Considerations: Committee Suitability against the job specification.
Ability to commit sufficient time to the role.
Dr Tim Miller nominated as preferred Bill Thomas nominated as preferred Interviews with those shortlisted candidate: candidate: and preferred candidate confirmed Tims skills and experience Bills skills and experience complemented the Board.
Tim serves on and chairs the Positive chemistry between both remuneration committee of other Bill and the Non-Executive organisations and therefore has Directors, and Bill and executive recent and relevant experience management.
Formal recommendation by Approved by the Board on Approved by the Board on Nomination Committee to Board 22 May 2018.
13 February 2019. and Board approval 88 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Appointments of Dr Tim Miller and Bill Thomas Election and re-election Dr Tim Miller was appointed Non-Executive Director, The Code sets out that all Directors should offer themselves Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member of the for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their Audit Committee and Nomination Committee with effect appointment, and for re-election on an annual basis thereafter.
from 22 May 2018, whilst Bill Thomas was appointed as Chair, Chair of the Nomination Committee and member of the The Nomination Committee leads the process for evaluating Remuneration Committee with effect from 13 February 2019. whether the Board should recommend the election re-election Details of the process followed for each search is set out of Directors to shareholders, and takes account of the on the opposite page.
performance, time commitment and independence of each Non-Executive Director in forming a recommendation Our Board biographies are on pages 76 to 79. to the Board.
The appraisals of the Executive Directors are also considered by the Board prior to their re-election Reappointments being recommended.
During the year, the Nomination Committee recommended the reappointments of James Hughes-Hallett and Birger Nergaard Director performance evaluations for a further three-year term, and Ed Warner for a further The process by which the performance of the Directors is one-year term, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
evaluated is set out on page 93.
The evaluations concluded This followed confirmation of their continuing and effective that each of the Directors continues to perform effectively contribution to the Board, and that they continued to commit and to demonstrate commitment to their role.
sufficient time to the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities fully.
Director performance evaluations are discussed in more detail on page 93.
In considering James reappointment, the Nomination Time commitment and independence Committee highlighted feedback from his 2017 performance Although the letter of appointment of each Non-Executive evaluation which confirmed that he led the Board in such Director includes an anticipated time commitment, the letter a way to ensure its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, also states that Directors are expected to commit sufficient and in maintaining effective communication with shareholders.
time to their directorship to discharge their obligations to the Company.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the time that In making its recommendation in respect of Birger, the each Non-Executive Director commits to the Company and Nomination Committee revisited the previous conclusion was satisfied that this was sufficient to discharge their duties that Birger was deemed to be an independent Non-Executive fully and effectively in each case.
The Nomination Committee Director notwithstanding that he had served as the Deputy also considered the external directorships and other Chairman of RS Platou ASA Platou for seven years prior commitments of each Director, and noted in particular that Bill to its acquisition by the Group.
In assessing whether Birger Thomas membership of the International Advisory Board of remained independent at the current time, the Nomination FireEye, Inc. was in an advisory capacity only.
Following this Committee considered whether his prior service on the Platou review, the Nomination Committee confirmed that the external Board should be aggregated with his three years service on directorships and time commitments of the Directors did not the Companys Board.
However, taking account of both the give rise to any concerns that each Director would not be able changes in the composition of the Platou executive team over to commit sufficient time to their directorship in the future.
the period and the relationship of Platou with the Company prior to Birgers appointment to the Clarksons Board, the The Nomination Committee assesses the independence Nomination Committee remained satisfied that he should of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria set out in continue to be treated as independent in both character the Code, which highlights that to be classed as independent, and judgement.
non-executive directors should be independent in character and judgement and free from any relationships or Ed Warner reached nine years tenure on the Board in circumstances which may affect that judgement.
As reported in last years annual report, in order assessment is made on an annual basis prior to recommending to ensure stability and continuity on the Board during a period the election re-election of the Directors, but the Nomination of change, the Board had approved Eds reappointment for Committee also revisits its assessment as and when there a further one-year term.
In making a recommendation to the are any changes in circumstances which could impact on Board in this regard, the Nomination Committee determined independence.
In recommending the election re-election that Ed remained independent in character and judgement.
of the Directors at the 2019 AGM, the Nomination Committee At that time, the expectation was that Ed would step down took account of the factors reviewed in recommending the from the Board following a suitable handover with a newly reappointments of James Hughes-Hallett and Birger Nergaard appointed Remuneration Committee Chair.
However, for a further term as described on this page, and satisfied due to the illness of the then Chair James Hughes-Hallett, itself that there had not been any changes in circumstances the Company announced on 26 March 2018 that Ed would which would impact on the previous assessment that all take on the role of Acting Chair whilst James recovered from Non-Executive Directors were independent.
his illness, in order to provide the Board with stewardship through a further period of uncertainty.
Cognisant that this Conclusion was a temporary arrangement, in June 2018 the Nomination The Board approved the Nomination Committees Committee recommended to the Board that Eds appointment recommendation that each Director should be proposed be extended by a further year.
On the recent announcement for election re-election at the 2019 AGM.
Further information that Bill Thomas has been appointed as Chair, Ed stepped about the Directors, which highlights their skills and areas down from the Board with immediate effect.
The decision to of expertise, is set out on pages 76 to 79. extend a Non-Executive Directors term beyond the nine years set out in the Code would only be taken by the Board under exceptional circumstances, and we were pleased to have received positive feedback from a number of our investors that they supported the approach taken by the Board.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 89 Effectiveness continued Board and Committee effectiveness that we continue to perform effectively.
In line with the Code, The Board is cognisant that changes in strategy, personnel an external evaluation is undertaken at least once every three and the external environment may need to drive changes in years.
The last external review was completed in 2016, and the way that we operate in order to maximise our effectiveness.
we are planning for the 2019 review to be externally facilitated.
We therefore recognise the benefits of regularly evaluating The timing of this review aligns well with the appointment of our own effectiveness and that of our Committees at least our new Chair, who may wish to delve into specific areas annually so that we can take any actions necessary to ensure within that review.
2017 review The key actions arising from the 2017 review, along with an update on progress against the actions, is provided below: Area Action Update Induction programme Refresh the induction programme A structured programme was for new Non-Executive Directors developed for Dr Tim Miller, which to ensure that they are able to gain included opportunities to visit an understanding of the Group and overseas units.
Whilst induction have access to senior management should be tailored to the individual, across the business.
the revised programme will provide a robust framework for any future inductions.
A tailored induction programme is in the process See more on pages 94 to 95. of being designed for Bill Thomas.
Meeting programmes Review the structure of Board The Secretariat function reviewed the and Committee calendars to ensure programme of meetings and, together agendas are focused on appropriate with the Chair Committee Chairs, matters and therefore promote developed forward-looking agendas effective and constructive debate.
to ensure discussions allowed for a balance of strategy, performance See more on page 82. and governance items.
Information flows Assess adequacy and timeliness A Board portal was implemented of information given to the during 2018 and papers are now Board Committees to ensure distributed electronically.
improved security and provided for more efficient circulation.
A new template for papers is being tested by Secretariat the use of the template is to ensure papers focus on key issues and flag decisions to be made.
Subject to further discussion with the Chair and Committee Chairs, the template will be rolled out for other See more on page 94. meeting submissions.
Senior management engagement Promote engagement with senior There were a number of Board succession planning management below Board level, presentations during the year which will provide opportunities to map by senior executives and this will internal talent and therefore provide continue to be a feature in forward See more on page 94. support to succession planning.
90 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance 2018 review Board and Committee effectiveness review process The Nomination Committee leads the annual review, and December 2018 considered the process and areas of focus for the 2018 review.
Approach and areas of focus agreed The review took the form of questionnaires which were issued by Nomination Committee.
to all Board and Committee members, and which covered a wide range of areas including the balance of skills, experience and diversity on the Board: Board dynamics both within the boardroom and outside it, and between executive and non-executive management: the quality of information flows December 2018 to January 2019 to the Board: and the support provided by the Secretariat Questionnaires completed and output analysed.
The output from the questionnaires was supplemented by one-to-one meetings between the new Chair and each Director in order to gain further insight into Board dynamics, and to allow the Directors to expand on any points that they had raised through the questionnaires.
January to February 2019 The Nomination Committee reviewed the output from the Outputs discussed with Chair and Committee Chairs Board evaluation and agreed a draft action plan which was and areas of focus for 2019 agreed.
Each Committee also reviewed the output of its own evaluation process and agreed actions where appropriate.
February to March 2019 The review concluded that the Board and its Committees One-to-one meetings between Chair and Directors.
continued to operate effectively although as would be expected at every evaluation, there were some opportunities to enhance effectiveness.
The Nomination Committee will monitor progress against the Board actions during the year, and an update will be provided in the 2019 annual report.
March 2019 An overview of the review process and timetable is provided Action plans approved by the Board and to the right, whilst further detail on the conclusions arising from its Committees where required.
the review is set out on the next page, along with the actions to be taken forward in 2019.
The review concluded that the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively although as would be expected at every evaluation, there were some opportunities to enhance effectiveness.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 91 Effectiveness continued Output from the 2018 review Area of assessment Output actions Board composition The composition of the Board was considered to be adequate, although it was acknowledged that a greater breadth of diversity and sector experience may be beneficial.
This will be considered as part of the Boards ongoing succession planning.
Boardroom dynamics Dynamics within the boardroom were agreed to be good, with Board members operating in a candid and open manner, fostering a healthy and constructive debate.
Members would welcome further opportunities to interact in a more informal environment with their See more on pages 80 to 81. fellow Directors, and this will be factored into the annual Board calendar.
Information flows Whilst Board agendas were driving focus on the most pertinent areas facing the Company, some enhancement of the way in which information was presented would aid the Board and its Committees in focusing on the key issues and decisions to be made.
The provision See more on page 94. of further information in months where the Board did not meet would also be of benefit.
Strategic oversight The Companys strategic direction was understood.
However, the Board would welcome the strategic planning and review process being revisited in order to allow the Directors to increase their focus on developing the strategy.
In 2019, additional time will be allocated See more on page 82. to discussions on strategy.
Succession planning Whilst progress had been made during the year on non-executive succession planning through the appointments of Dr Tim Miller and Bill Thomas, the Board recognised that succession plans for key executive roles required further development.
This will be an area See more on page 87. of focus for the Nomination Committee in 2019.
Risk management The Companys risk management and internal controls processes have continued to and internal controls evolve.
More detailed information will allow the Board to undertake a deeper review of their effectiveness and embedding, and this will be led by the Audit Committee in 2019.
Support A good level of support was provided to the Board by the Secretariat team, with the advice provided on corporate governance matters and the newly introduced electronic Board portal being particular highlights.
Directors felt that a more structured training programme See more on page 94. would be beneficial, and the Secretariat will work with the Chair to design this.
Committees The Board Committees were confirmed to be operating effectively.
Some of the areas highlighted above, such as the way in which information is presented, were also themes emerging from the Committee reviews.
These actions will be progressed within the wider Board action plan and rolled out to the Committees where appropriate.
92 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Diversity Director performance evaluations The Board recognises that diversity, in its broadest sense, In tandem with the Board and Committee effectiveness is a key driver of an effective board, being a board which reviews, the Nomination Committee agrees the approach comprises individuals with a broad range of backgrounds, to be taken to the annual review of the performance of skills, experience, expertise and perspectives, and which the Non-Executive Directors.
utilises these qualities in order to generate effective debate, challenge and decision-making.
Whilst the Chairs performance would ordinarily be evaluated led by the Senior Independent Director with input We have adopted a Board Diversity Policy which confirms from the other Non-Executive Directors, the Nomination that the Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom Committee concluded that, exceptionally, it would not diversity, of which gender is one important aspect.
be relevant to evaluate the performance of the Chair role However, it does not include a measurable target for gender in respect of 2018.
This was on the basis that James representation on the Board and explains that all appointments Hughes-Hallett had not been able to perform his duties are subject to formal, rigorous and transparent procedures since March 2018 due to illness, and that Ed Warner and should be made on merit against a defined job who had performed the role of Acting Chair from March specification and criteria.
The Company does not therefore 2018 to the end of the year was undertaking the role on consider it appropriate to set a measurable target for female a temporary basis and would be stepping down from the representation on the Board.
Female representation on the Board on the appointment of a successor to the role.
The performance of the other Non-Executive Directors was Going forward, there will be an increased focus on broader evaluated by way of a questionnaire which focused on the action across the Group regarding diversity.
key skills and experience that the Director brought to the Board: their interactions with both fellow Board members Conflicts of interest and management: and their commitment to the role.
Our Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 The questionnaires were completed anonymously, and the to avoid a situation in which he or she has or may have a direct outputs were collated into reports which were discussed or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the between the new Chair and each Director on a one-to-one interests of the Company.
Directors have a further duty under basis.
Where appropriate, development plans and ongoing the Companys Articles of Association to disclose to the Board training needs will be agreed on an individual basis.
any interest in a transaction or arrangement with the Company.
The performance of the Executive Directors was Directors are required to disclose any interests that could appraised by the CEO in the case of the CFO & COO and give rise to a conflict of interest either prior to appointment the President of Broking and Investment Banking, and this or as and when they arise.
Potential conflicts are considered feedback was presented to the Remuneration Committee by the Board on a case-by-case basis and, if satisfied that as part of the annual remuneration review.
The new Chair it is appropriate to do so, the Board is permitted under the was briefed by Ed Warner the former Acting Chair on the Articles to approve the conflict.
The interested Director does performance of the business and the CEOs leadership, not participate in the discussion regarding the conflict or vote and feedback was provided to the CEO.
The Board may impose any conditions on the authorisation of a conflict that it deems necessary, for example The evaluations concluded that each Director continues that the Director should leave the boardroom when certain to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment matters are discussed.
Once authorised, a conflict is recorded to their role.
in the Register of Directors Conflicts.
The Nomination Committee has recently assumed responsibility for providing the Board with guidance on the treatment of Directors conflicts and for conducting an annual review of the Register of Directors Conflicts.
During 2018, no potential or actual conflicts were raised for consideration by the Board.
Dr Tim Miller and Bill Thomas disclosed their external directorships prior to their appointments, and the Board was satisfied that these would not give rise to any conflict of interest.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 93 Effectiveness continued Induction and development All newly appointed Directors receive a comprehensive induction I have been struck programme which is tailored to their needs.
The Chair and the throughout my induction Group Company Secretary are responsible for designing an effective induction programme, with the objectives of facilitating by the aspirations of the the Directors understanding of the Groups businesses, executive and the wider markets and culture, and enabling their effective contribution to the Board as early as possible.
This is supplemented by team to excel in delivering access through the Board portal to a file of reference material, which covers areas including corporate governance matters for clients, and their and procedures, past financial performance, shareholder knowledge and expertise.
analysis and risk management systems.
Whilst new technology Details of Dr Tim Millers induction programme are set out is being embraced, the on the next page.
The induction programme for Bill Thomas is in the process of being agreed.
strong heritage of the business shines through.
A typical induction programme Dr Tim Miller Meetings with all Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary.
Briefings across nine to 12 months from senior managers on key businesses and functions: and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders, advisors and clients.
Site visits are also a critical element of the programme, enabling the Director to meet the local leadership team and build a deeper understanding of the business from an on-the-ground perspective.
As part of our ongoing development, the Board receives briefings on legal, regulatory and governance matters as they arise.
Senior managers make presentations to the Board on strategic matters and key industry and business developments, which is also an opportunity for us to engage with employees who may be considered as part of succession planning.
Information flows and support The Group Company Secretary, through the Chair, is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best practice.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating communication flows between the Board and its Committees, and the senior management team.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Group Company Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent advice at the Companys expense.
Board and Committee papers are delivered securely to the Directors using an electronic portal in advance of meetings.
Directors are able to seek additional information from senior management at any time, whether in relation to papers submitted for discussion or any other matters.
Should any urgent matters arise between scheduled meetings, Directors are briefed either individually or through a Board call.
94 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance A tailored induction programme for: Dr Tim Miller Non-Executive Director A tailored induction programme was designed which reflected the following objectives: Facilitating Tims understanding from both an internal and an external perspective of the Group, its people, key markets, operations on the ground and the most significant issues facing the Group.
Building on his considerable experience of remuneration matters gained within both an executive and non-executive context, in order to build an insight into the Groups own remuneration structures and to position him to lead the remuneration agenda.
Tims induction is ongoing, and is expected to be completed within the first half of 2019.
The programme has primarily taken the form of meetings and briefings as set out below.
Internal Business Managing Directors: to provide an overview of the business including history, challenges, opportunities, the competitive environment and the key risks and establish links with key personnel.
Functional leaders: to discuss the principal focus areas of the functions and how they support the strategy, whilst building relationships with key leaders.
Site visits: visit undertaken to the New York office while meeting US-based shareholders.
Other site visits will be completed when the opportunity arises for example in conjunction with meetings to the area for other purposes.
External Board Directors: to provide an insight into the key issues facing the Group from the Boards perspective.
Principal advisors: to build an understanding of the context within which the Group operates through meetings with the Groups external Auditor, corporate brokers and financial public relations advisors.
Remuneration Introductory meetings with major shareholders undertaken in conjunction with engagement with shareholders regarding remuneration matters.
Given his role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Tim also received a briefing pack on remuneration matters.
This provided relevant reference material, such as previous Directors remuneration reports which included the current Directors Remuneration Policy : details of previous shareholder consultations: proxy advisory reports: and documents to enable Tim to build up an understanding of how the remuneration for the Executive Directors is structured.
Dr Tim Millers biography is on page 79.
