Chairs review I am delighted to be joining Clarksons as the Chair.
With its heritage, strong financial position and outstanding executive management team focused on clients and innovation, this is an exciting time to be joining the business.
Bill Thomas Chair 12 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Overview People Despite a first quarter that saw difficult shipping and offshore Our people are what makes Clarksons a success and markets impact financial performance, the breadth, depth and we are grateful for their continued hard work, knowledge quality of Clarksons underlying business has proved robust and expertise in cementing our position as the global market against market challenges.
We finished the year in line with leader.
Recruiting, developing and retaining the best people market expectations and have made significant progress in is fundamental to our business as we remain committed to strengthening further our market-leading position, expanding providing our clients with a unique, tailored service to suit our presence geographically, introducing new products and their changing needs.
continuing to deliver first class solutions for our clients.
I would like to thank all of our colleagues for their hard work Clarksons focus on outstanding service, unique market and commitment during 2018. insights and deep sector expertise has enabled us to perform even in a challenging global marketplace.
Board We announced in March 2018 that Ed Warner would be Whilst technology enables us to revolutionise the way we taking on the role of Acting Chair whilst James Hughes-Hallett work with our clients and our advanced technology platform recovered from illness.
Subsequently, in our interim results remains a clear differentiator for our business, at our core it was confirmed that the Board had decided to commence we are a people business.
Our success depends upon the a search for a new independent Non-Executive Director, strength of our team to originate and execute on behalf of with a view to that person taking on the chairmanship at the our clients and we continue to work hard to hire and retain appropriate time.
I was appointed Chair on 13 February 2019 the best people in the industry.
and Ed stepped off the Board at that time.
On behalf of the Clarksons team, I would like to thank Ed for his contribution As we move into 2019, the macro-economic environment during his years on the Board and for extending his tenure continues to present uncertainty, but opportunities remain, whilst the chair process was underway.
We wish him every particularly as the market leader.
We have previously talked success for the future.
I am also pleased to report that about a market turnaround and we remain confident in the James has returned to the Board to resume his role as a economics of the shipping industry.
The rate environment has Non-Executive Director, whilst relinquishing the chairmanship, improved in a number of our markets and even in challenged thus we retain his immense knowledge of shipping, offshore markets, opportunities exist and we are well positioned to and world trade within the Clarksons Group.
capitalise on these as and when they occur.
I am delighted to be joining Clarksons as the Chair.
With its Results heritage, strong financial position and outstanding executive Underlying profit before taxation was 45.3m 2017: 50.2m.
management team focused on clients and innovation, this is Reported profit before taxation was 42.9m 2017: 45.4m.
an exciting time to be joining the business.
Underlying earnings per share was 105.2p 2017: 116.8p.
Reported earnings per share was 98.8p 2017: 104.4p.
During 2018, we welcomed Dr Tim Miller to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee As explained in the financial review on page 62, free cash and member of the Audit Committee and Nomination resources as at 31 December 2018 were 57.0m 2017: 54.1m.
Tim is an experienced Non-Executive Director and has significant expertise in the areas of HR and remuneration.
Dividend Clarksons is increasing its dividend for the 16th consecutive Finally, Peter M. Anker has expressed a wish to retire year in line with its progressive dividend policy.
The Board is from full-time employment on his 62nd birthday in July 2019, recommending a final dividend of 51p 2017: 50p.
Combined and consequently he has decided not to offer himself up for with the interim dividend of 24p 2017: 23p, the resulting full re-election as a Director at the AGM in May.
Peter has invested year dividend is up 3% to 75p 2017: 73p.
a huge amount of time and energy into the success of RS Platou, and the integration within the Clarksons Group, The dividend will be payable on 31 May 2019 to shareholders and on behalf of the entire Board I would like to thank him.
on the register at 17 May 2019, subject to shareholder approval.
Outlook As a cash-generative business with net free cash resources We start 2019 with a stronger forward order book.
Nevertheless, and a strong balance sheet, Clarksons continues to be in geo-political uncertainty, be it from trade wars, Brexit impacting a strong position to take advantage of opportunities as the exchange rates or the imposition of sanctions, is continuing markets recalibrate.
We remain committed to our progressive to have an impact on global sentiment.
This is causing delays dividend policy, whilst seeking to further expand our client in the ability for our financial segment to execute on awarded offering and consolidate our market-leading position.
mandates and also, combined with the effects of tragic natural disasters, is impacting the rate environment within the dry cargo segment.
Consequently, we believe our results in 2019 will be second half weighted as it will take a time for these headwinds to improve.
We are however confident that as we approach 2020 the fundamentals of the shipping market will continue to improve, and that Clarksons best in class offering and market-leading position leaves us well placed to take advantage of this opportunity.
Bill Thomas Chair 8 March 2019 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 13
