Relations with shareholders The Board is cognisant of Investor data Analysis as at 31 December 2018 its responsibility to manage the Company on behalf of our Shareholder by type shareholders, and understands that maintaining strong relationships and an open dialogue with investors underpins the long-term success of the Company.
Retail Corporate Nominee Number of shareholders: Number of shareholders: 885 66.44% 447 33.56% Number of ordinary shares: Number of ordinary shares: 6,062,587 19.99% 24,262,471 80.01% Investor calendar Shareholder by geography Total UK Rest of Europe January Pre-close trading update March Full year results announcement Number of Number of Number of shareholders: shareholders: shareholders: 1,332 100% 1,164 87% 94 7% March to April Number of ordinary Number of ordinary Number of ordinary Investor roadshow shares: 30,325,058 shares: 25,952,570 shares: 4,067,049 100.00% 85.58% 13.41% May Asia North America Rest of World AGM August Half year results announcement Number of Number of Number of shareholders: shareholders: shareholders: September 36 3% 16 1% 22 2% Investor roadshow Number of ordinary Number of ordinary Number of ordinary shares: 112,150 shares: 21,785 shares: 171,504 0.37% 0.07% 0.57% 104 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Shareholder engagement During 2018, the CFO & COO welcomed the UK Shareholders Association UKSA to the Companys London office.
The UKSA Institutional investors is a not-for-profit organisation set up to promote and protect Whilst the Chair is responsible for ensuring effective the interests of private investors and promote the wider communication with shareholders, the CEO and CFO & COO benefits of savings and investment in equities to society in act as the primary contact for institutional investors and engage general.
A presentation was made which provided an overview actively with both current and potential investors.
The Chair, of the Groups business model, market dynamics and an Senior Independent Director and all Non-Executive Directors introduction to Clarksons Cloud, our end-to-end digital shipping are available to attend meetings if requested by shareholders.
The presentation was well received by attendees, and provided a valuable opportunity for the Company to hear During the year, the CEO and CFO & COO held over 70 meetings directly from current and potential retail shareholders.
with both potential and current investors holding nearly 50% of the issued share capital to gain an understanding of their Employee shareholders views and concerns.
The Board recognises the benefits of encouraging employee share-ownership, and Group employees hold around 8% In response to the significant vote against the Directors of the Companys issued share capital, either through direct remuneration report at the 2018 AGM, the Remuneration interests or through restricted shares granted under employee Committee Chair engaged with shareholders through 2018 19, share plans.
Furthermore, the Company issues an annual meeting holders of around 35% of the Companys issued share invitation to employees in the UK, Norway and Singapore to capital.
Further details on the engagement can be found in join a ShareSave plan, which gives employees the opportunity the Directors remuneration report on page 110. to purchase shares in the Company at a discounted price, subject to certain conditions.
Take-up of the last invitation Retail shareholders reached 37% of eligible employees excluding employees Retail shareholders excluding employee shareholders already saving the maximum savings amount in prior invitations, hold around 12% of our issued share capital, and the with a number of employees already participating in previous Board recognises the value of maintaining a good level of invitations.
A similar plan will be offered to employees in the engagement with these investors.
This is achieved principally US this year, subject to shareholders approving the adoption through our website and the AGM.
Full year and half year of new plan rules at the AGM.
results announcements, the annual report and results presentations are all available on our website, as well as Employee shareholders and the workforce as a whole are information regarding financial performance and governance kept informed by the Group Company Secretary of publicly matters.
Further detail regarding our AGM can be found on available financial updates and governance changes such page 107.
Our Company Secretariat team and our registrar as new director appointments.
Computershare are also available to help retail shareholders with any queries they may have.
attend at least one Board meeting each year in order to present their views on market and economic conditions The CEO and CFO & COO regularly update the Board on and investors perceptions.
shareholders views, which reflects both their own direct engagement with investors and feedback from the Companys joint corporate brokers and financial public relations advisors.
An analysis of movements in the shareholder register and trading volumes is provided to each Board meeting, whilst analyst reports on the Company are made available to all Directors through the Board portal in order to enhance their understanding of how the Company is perceived in the market.
Investor engagement During the year, the CEO and CFO & COO held over 70 meetings with both potential and current investors.
Analysts brokers Board Internal We receive analyst reports through An open dialogue with investors of Our employee engagement our Board portal and review them, all types, and our ability to respond forum, which is being established, along with broker feedback, to their feedback, is the key to our will provide a valuable opportunity at our Board meetings.
for us to enhance engagement with the workforce including our employee shareholders.
Annual General Meeting We view the AGM as an opportunity to engage directly with all shareholders.
During the year, the CEO and CFO & COO held over 70 meetings with both potential and current investors.
106 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Annual General Meeting We view the AGM as an opportunity to engage directly with all shareholders but particularly retail shareholders on the key issues facing the Group and respond to any questions shareholders may have on the business of the meeting.
The Notice of Meeting is circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
All resolutions proposed to the meeting are voted on by way of a poll.
This allows all votes cast to be counted, rather than just those of the shareholders attending the meeting, which we believe is the most representative means of gauging the views of our shareholder base.
The number of proxies received is disclosed to shareholders in attendance at each AGM, and the voting results are announced to the London Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Votes were cast in relation to circa 72% of the issued share capital and, although all resolutions were passed by the required majority, the Board noted a significant vote against resolution 2 to approve the Directors remuneration report.
As mentioned on page 105, the Remuneration Committee Chair engaged with shareholders in response to this vote.
This years AGM will be held at 12pm on Thursday 9 May 2019 at the Companys London office at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF.
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The Chair, as well as the Chairs of the Board Committees, will be in attendance at the meeting to answer questions, and we will be available after the meeting to meet shareholders on an informal basis.
AGM 12pm, Thursday 9 May 2019 Commodity Quay St. Katharine Docks London E1W 1BF Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 107
