Key performance indicators We use financial indicators to monitor our progress in delivering against our strategy to create long-term sustainable value for all of our stakeholders.
30 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Revenue Underlying pro t Underlying earnings Broking forward order book m before taxation per share FOB at 31 December for m pence the following year US$m Reported profit before taxation Reported earnings per share for 2018: 42.9m for 2018: 98.8p Definition Definition Definition Definition Revenue in sterling Profit before taxation, Profit after taxation and Directors best estimate equivalent, translated at the exceptional items and before exceptional items of commissions invoiceable rate of exchange prevailing acquisition related costs as and acquisition related costs over the following 12 months on the date of the transaction.
shown in the consolidated divided by the weighted as principal payments We have four revenue income statement.
average number of ordinary fall due.
segments: broking, financial, shares in issue during support and research.
Why it is important Why it is important Why it is important Why it is important for Clarksons for Clarksons for Clarksons for Clarksons Revenue drives the business, The Board considers that this This measure shows The FOB gives a degree of resulting in cash generation measurement of profitability how much money the forward visibility of income.
provides stakeholders with Group is generating for information on trends and its shareholders taking into performance, before the consideration changes in effect of exceptional items, profit and the effects of acquisition related costs issuance of new shares.
and different tax regimes It is an important variable in around the world.
See more in note 3 of the See more in the financial review See more in note 7 of the See more in the financial review consolidated financial statements on pages 60 to 63. consolidated financial statements on pages 60 to 63. on page 150. on page 155.
