Accountability Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder At a glance I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report and Composed of independent Non-Executive Directors: would like to start by welcoming Dr Tim Miller as a new Marie-Louise Clayton Chair, independent member with effect from 22 May 2018 and also thanking Non-Executive Director Ed Warner who retired from the Board and Committee on Peter Backhouse, Senior Independent Director 13 February 2019.
Ed provided invaluable support to the 1 Dr Tim Miller, independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee during his tenure for which we are very 2 James Hughes-Hallett, independent Non-Executive Director grateful.
Finally on membership changes, I am delighted that James Hughes-Hallett has now become a formal member Ed Warner served as a member throughout 2018 of the Committee following his transition from Chair to a and stepped down on 13 February 2019.
The Board is satisfied that Marie-Louise Clayton meets A key area of work for the Audit Committee this year the requirement under the Code that at least one member was around the audit tender process which resulted in the of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, reappointment of PwC.
I led this process on behalf of the and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant Audit Committee but would like to thank my fellow members to the sector in which the Company operates.
and Jeff Woyda for their support.
Further detail on the tender process can be found on page 103.
In accordance Regular attendees at meetings include the CFO & COO, with PwCs rotation rules, our current Lead Audit Partner Group Financial Controller, Group Company Secretary John Waters will rotate off the audit after finalisation of this and the external Auditor PwC.
years audit, and we look forward to a smooth transition and working with Chris Burns, his successor.
I would like to offer Its key roles are to review the integrity of the financial my thanks to John for his contribution to the audit process reporting for the Group including managing the relationship over the last five years.
with the external Auditor and to oversee the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
Throughout the year, we have continued to focus on the fundamentals around our risk management and internal Held three scheduled meetings during 2018.
We implemented some changes to is set out below.
strengthen our approach to the annual risk assessment and undertook a comprehensive review of our risks, including Scheduled meeting attendance emerging risks.
We also value the compliance updates we receive from management as these provide the Audit Marie-Louise Clayton Committee with real insight into the maintenance of proper 3 3 and appropriate systems and controls.
Peter Backhouse 3 3 To further strengthen assurance on the effectiveness of 1 Dr Tim Miller our internal control environment, the Audit Committee has 2 2 appointed Grant Thornton to provide internal audit services.
Ed Warner We are currently working with Grant Thornton and the 3 3 business to develop a risk-based rolling plan.
This expands the internal audit activities across the Group, with Deloitte 1 Appointed on 22 May 2018. providing services to our Norwegian regulated operations.
Further detail on internal audit can be found on page 102.
The results from our annual performance review confirm that the Audit Committee is operating effectively.
However, I intend to ensure we continue to provide appropriate oversight, particularly as the demands of good governance continue to change.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
Marie-Louise Clayton Audit Committee Chair 8 March 2019 Read about the annual review of the Audit Committees effectiveness on pages 90 to 92.
96 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
Challenge the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies, and confirm whether the Group has adopted appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Advise the Board on whether the annual report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable: the adoption of the going concern basis of accounting: and the appropriateness of the viability statement.
Oversee the relationship with the external Auditor, including recommending their appointment and reappointment to the Board: approving their remuneration: reviewing the level of fees payable for non-audit services: implementing procedures to ensure that the external Auditors independence is maintained: and assessing annually whether these have been effective.
Keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, internal control From left to right: Standing Dr Tim Miller and risk management systems.
Seated Marie-Louise Clayton, James Hughes-Hallett, Peter Backhouse Review the adequacy of systems and controls for detecting and preventing fraud, bribery and money-laundering.
Monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance function.
Consider regularly any internal audit reports in relation to the Throughout the year, regulated banking business, we have continued to focus and the need for any internal audit activity in the wider Group.
on the fundamentals around our risk management and The Audit Committees internal control framework.
Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are available at Marie-Louise Clayton www.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 97 Accountability continued Key topics discussed at Audit Committee meetings in 2018 External audit Financial reporting Governance External audit reports on the Financial results and the Impact of the UK Corporate principal audit and accounting 2017 annual report, including Governance Code 2018 on the issues arising during the half year statements regarding going Audit Committees duties and full year audits concern and viability Annual review of the Audit Assessment of the effectiveness Accounting policies and key Committees effectiveness of the external audit process judgement areas for the half year Audit tender process and and full year results recommendation to the Board to Interim and final dividend reappoint PwC, having reviewed payment capacity the proposed terms of engagement and reassessed PwCs independence Plan for the 2018 full year audit, including objectives, approach, timing and fee proposal Internal audit Risk management and internal 2018 internal audit plan for controls Clarksons Platou Securities AS Regular reports on the risk and regular updates on internal management and internal control audit activities systems, including the annual Consideration of the need review of the effectiveness to implement an internal audit of those systems function in the wider Group IT security update Internal audit tender process, Mitigation of risks in the and agreement in 2019 to appoint convertible bond market Grant Thornton Regular compliance updates including reports from the Money Laundering Reporting Officers 98 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Financial reporting In respect of the Companys half year and annual financial The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable statements, the Audit Committee considered the significant accounting policies have been adopted and whether issues set out in the table below to ensure that appropriate management has made appropriate judgements rigour was applied.
These are the same issues as were and estimates.
considered in 2017 and they were discussed in detail with management and the external Auditor throughout the year.
All accounting policies can be found in note 2 on pages 142 to 149 of the consolidated financial statements.
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements Issue Area of focus Audit Committee review and conclusion Recoverability of A number of judgements are The Audit Committee discussed with management trade receivables made in the calculation of the the results of its review, the internal controls and the provision, primarily the age of composition of the related financial information.
an invoice, the existence of any disputes, recent historical The Audit Committee also discussed with the external payment patterns and Auditor their audit procedures over the provision.
outlook, and the debtors financial position.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the implementation of IFRS 9 has been properly applied this year and has had no significant financial impact on the determination of trade receivable provisions which now apply an expected credit loss model.
Other IFRS 9 accounting and disclosures are properly implemented.
See note 2.2 and note 13 of the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Revenue recognition In the broking and financial The Audit Committee considered the revenue segments, the Groups recognition processes in place for all four business entitlement to commission segments with management, and cut-off procedures revenue usually depends on with the external Auditor.
Since the Group The Audit Committee is satisfied with the control has no control over this, environment and that revenue has been recognised it is important to recognise in the correct periods.
revenue at the appropriate time and when performance The Audit Committee is satisfied that the obligations are satisfied.
implementation of IFRS 15 has been properly applied this year and has had no overall significant impact on the revenue recognition for the Group.
See note 2.2 of the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Carrying value of goodwill Determining whether goodwill The Audit Committee discussed with management and intangible assets is impaired requires an and reviewed the results of its testing, and evaluated estimation of the value-in-use the appropriateness of the assumptions used within of the cash-generating units its impairment test model.
The results of the Audit to which these assets have Committees review of managements testing were been allocated.
The value-insubsequently considered with the external Auditor.
use calculation requires The Audit Committee then discussed with both estimation of future cash management and the external Auditor the headroom flows expected to arise for in each of the cash-generating units and the impact of each cash-generating unit, the sensitivity analyses from changes in key assumptions.
selection of suitable discount rates and the estimation of The Audit Committee is satisfied with managements future growth rates.
assumptions, judgement and the conclusion not to record impairment in any of the cash-generating units and that appropriate sensitivity disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 99 Accountability continued Fair, balanced and understandable Viability statement The Audit Committee reviewed whether the 2018 annual The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the approval report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable of the viability statement which is set out on page 70. and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Cognisant that changes in both the internal and external assess the Companys position and performance, business operating environment could impact on the Groups viability, model and strategy.
the Audit Committee receives a report from management at each meeting as to the prospects of the Group which includes In making its assessment the Audit Committee took into key financial indicators including profitability, liquidity and the account the process which management had put in place forward order book, business risks and the principal risks.
to provide assurance as detailed below: Ahead of recommending the approval of the statement to the Overall co-ordination of the production of the annual report Board, a more detailed report was presented by management was overseen by the CFO & COO to ensure consistency which considered the impact on viability of scenarios which across the document, with overall governance and are linked to the Groups principal risks, as well as the co-ordination provided by a cross-functional team compounding impact of certain scenarios.
The Audit of senior management.
Committee also revisited the period over which previous Each section of the annual report was prepared by assessments of the Groups viability have been made, and a member of management with appropriate knowledge, confirmed that a three-year timeframe remained appropriate.
An extensive verification process was undertaken Going concern to ensure factual accuracy.
The Audit Committee reviewed the matters, assumptions and A formal review of all Board and Board Committee meeting sensitivities in support of preparing the accounts on a going minutes was completed by the Group Company Secretary concern basis and recommended to the Board that this to ensure that all significant matters were appropriately remained appropriate.
Further information about the going reflected and given due prominence in narrative reporting.
concern assessment is set out on page 71.
Comprehensive reviews of drafts of the annual report were undertaken by members of senior management and the Compliance external Auditor.
As part of strengthening our compliance processes and The Audit Committee discussed managements views to enhance employees understanding of the standards of on each of the key judgements considered in the period.
conduct and ethics expected of them, the Board published Board members received drafts of the annual report for their a revised Compliance Code in 2018.
This contains a suite of review and input which provided an opportunity to discuss policies that mitigate ethics and compliance risks, which all the drafts with both management and the external Auditor, employees and contractors must comply with.
In addition, challenging the disclosures where appropriate.
the Groups regulated businesses are subject to further compliance requirements which are set out in local The final draft of the annual report was reviewed by the compliance manuals.
On the basis of the process put in place by management and its review of whether the information In addition to existing anti-bribery and corruption online necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position training, sanctions and cyber security awareness have been and performance, business model and strategy was supplemented by online training modules.
To further improve appropriately disclosed, concluded that the 2018 annual awareness across the Group, compliance training seminars report was fair, balanced and understandable and advised for unregulated businesses have been conducted by the Group the Board accordingly.
General Counsel in all the key offices globally, with attendance by employees being mandatory.
Embedding of policies Internal controls and risk management and processes is supported by a global compliance team, The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy who the Audit Committee is satisfied have the necessary and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control skills and experience to fulfil their duties.
Details of the risk management structures in place to enable the risks facing the business to be At each meeting, the Audit Committee receives a compliance identified, documented, assessed and monitored are provided update which assesses compliance with current and evolving within the risk management section on pages 65 to 66. regulatory requirements, best practice and areas of focus by the compliance team.
These reports provide assurance to the Details of the annual assessment undertaken of the Audit Committee in respect of the appropriateness of controls effectiveness of risk, controls and risk management processes of a compliance nature.
are provided on pages 65 and 66.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board concluded that the Groups systems of internal control and risk management were appropriately designed and operated effectively during the year.
100 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Whistleblowing The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and security of the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns.
The Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Board, has agreed arrangements by which employees may raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
This is formalised into an overarching Whistleblowing Policy.
Where relevant, local mandatory whistleblowing policies also exist.
Under the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, whistleblowing arrangements are now the responsibility of the Board, which has been reflected in the Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Board has reviewed the current whistleblowing arrangements and agreed that, to complement the processes already in place and to provide a mechanism for concerns to be raised anonymously rather than just in confidence, an independent third-party provider will be appointed to operate the whistleblowing helpline.
An evaluation of potential firms to operate the helpline is currently under review for discussion with the Board.
In addition, current arrangements will be expanded to ensure that the entire workforce i. e. including agency workers and contractors can raise any concerns.
Anti-bribery and corruption To prevent bribery and corruption, the Group has an approved policy which all employees and contractors must follow.
This includes guidance around the acceptance of gifts and hospitality.
All employees have been trained in person and or completed online training modules in anti-bribery and corruption to ensure awareness of their obligations in this area.
Anti-money laundering The Group has sought to establish and maintain effective and proportionate mechanisms and controls to prevent opportunities for money laundering.
These include anti-money laundering AML policies and procedures for all businesses.
During the year, the Group reviewed the processes for its unregulated businesses, resulting in enhanced AML procedures and specifically Know your Client processes.
To implement these enhancements, the Group has developed a custom-built online sanctions checking tool.
All employees who support AML compliance have the necessary skills and experience to fulfil their duties.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 101 Accountability continued Internal audit In accordance with PwCs rotation rules and UK Ethical An internal audit arrangement is in place for our banking Standards, the current Lead Audit Partner John Waters, and finance operations headquartered in Norway, given their who has been in place since 2014, will rotate off the audit scale and regulatory nature.
During 2018, Ernst & Young EY from the 2018 audit cycle and be replaced by Chris Burns.
performed this function on an outsourced basis and an update This will provide a fresh perspective without sacrificing on activities was discussed at each Audit Committee meeting.
Chris has already shadowed certain There were no significant issues identified during the year.
aspects of the half year and year-end processes to facilitate a smooth transition.
Following review, management recommended a change of internal auditor in 2019 from EY to Deloitte to ensure The Audit Committee remains satisfied that the independence a freshness of perspective.
and objectivity of PwC has been maintained.
In respect of the Groups other activities, the Audit Committee Non-Audit Services Policy concluded, following review, that there may be scope to To ensure that the external Auditor maintains its independence enhance current activities to provide further assurance over and objectivity, the Audit Committee has agreed that its policy key risks and the effectiveness of the control environment.
is that the external Auditor and their associated audit network Given the size of the Group, the Audit Committee agreed firms will not be used for any non-audit services, other than that an outsourced partner to support internal audit activities legacy non-audit services already approved by the Audit would be a more effective approach.
In conjunction with Committee and certain exceptions.
The exceptions relate management, the Audit Committee Chair ran a review process to where services are required by statute: or exceptionally, as detailed in the table on the opposite page, inviting three the local statute law permits the provision of such services, independent firms to tender.
Following the selection process, and the external Auditor is best placed to preserve the quality Grant Thornton was appointed to provide internal audit of the non-audit service and there are limited feasible alternatives.
A three-year risk-based plan is currently being developed with Grant Thornton which will be monitored One non-permitted service was provided in China, as set out by the Audit Committee.
in the Independence section to the left.
External audit Legacy non-audit services approved by the Audit Committee The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the are detailed in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements.
external Auditor on behalf of the Board.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment of the external Auditor to Auditor effectiveness the Board, and approves their remuneration and terms The Audit Committee Chair meets the external Auditor on of engagement.
a regular basis during the year to facilitate effective and timely communication, and at each Audit Committee meeting there Tender is a session without management present in order to discuss PwC has been the external Auditor to the Group since 2009. the Auditors remit and raise any issues.
As reported in the 2017 annual report, and in compliance with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order regarding the The Audit Committee conducts an annual assessment tender of audit services, a competitive tender process was of the effectiveness of the external Auditor and the external carried out during the year.
Details of this tender process, audit process, and reports its findings to the Board.
It does which was led by the Chair of the Audit Committee, are set out this through: in the table on the opposite page.
Following consideration of Evaluating delivery and performance against the audit plan, the conclusions, the Board agreed with the Audit Committees including feedback from the CFO & COO: recommendation that PwC should be reappointed.
PwC will Assessing the experience and expertise of the audit team be subject to mandatory rotation in 2029. assigned to conduct the audit: Considering the content and quality of PwCs written Independence reports, contributions to the Audit Committees discussions Processes are in place to safeguard the independence and ability to challenge management: of the external Auditor, including controls around the use Reviewing compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy: of the external Auditor for non-audit services.
Details of the and Non-Audit Services Policy are set out in a separate section Consideration of audit quality inspection reports issued.
The Audit Committee was informed of a nonpermitted service that had been performed by PwC in China Following its annual review of the 2018 external audit process, in respect of payroll services.
Given the fide minimis nature of the Audit Committee concluded that it was effective.
the fee incurred and balances involved, the Audit Committee concluded that the conduct of this work had not impacted Auditor reappointment PwCs independence.
Taking into account the review of independence and performance of the external Auditor, together with the The Audit Committee also considered a report from PwC insights from the recent audit tender, the Audit Committee which set out the rigorous internal control procedures it has has recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC.
in place to safeguard its independence and ensure the quality Resolutions reappointing PwC as external Auditor and of the audit, which provided further assurance.
authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
102 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Activity relating to the external audit and internal audit tenders External audit Internal audit Stages of process The Audit Committee agreed to invite The Audit Committee agreed that a review Initial selection a number of firms to tender for the process for an internal audit firm should be external audit.
Authority was delegated to the CFO & COO to initiate a process.
Invitation to In June 2018, an invitation to tender In October 2018, three firms were invited participate was issued and a summary of the tender to participate, and informal discussions were process outlined.
held with the Group Company Secretary so that each firm could gain an understanding Firms were requested to confirm their of the Groups internal audit requirements.
participation and submit a non-disclosure agreement, a statement of independence and their most recent FRC Audit Quality Review Report.
Provision of To assist with formulating proposals, The three firms were invited to make a information and firms were provided with information presentation to the CFO & COO, Group meetings about the Group.
Financial Controller and Group Company Secretary.
These meetings provided an To gain an understanding of the Groups opportunity for each firm to learn about the history, business and audit requirements, Group and gain further insight into proposed firms were invited to meet the Audit internal audit requirements, explain their Committee Chair and key individuals of the internal audit processes from planning to management team including the CFO & delivery and how they would engage with COO, the Group Financial Controller and the the business and Audit Committee.
Director of Finance ahead of making a formal presentation to the Audit Committee.
Following these meetings, two firms were Feedback gathered from the sessions was shortlisted to proceed to the next stage.
collated to provide input into the subsequent decision-making process.
Presentations Written proposals were submitted in July The two shortlisted firms were requested proposals 2018 and evaluated by the Audit Committee to submit a written proposal setting out in August 2018. capabilities, key elements of the proposed service, details of their team and proposed In September 2018, each firm made fee.
This enabled comparability on key a presentation to the Audit Committee, components of their respective offerings.
the CFO & COO and other members of senior management, setting out their audit proposal.
Outcome Based on a careful assessment against The submitted proposals were carefully a comprehensive set of evaluation criteria, evaluated and, taking into account feedback the Audit Committee recommended a from the formal presentation and general preferred firm together with an alternative.
engagement with both firms during the process, management recommended to After careful consideration, the Board the Audit Committee Chair the appointment accepted the recommendation from of Grant Thornton.
the Audit Committee to reappoint PwC as the Groups external Auditor.
A meeting was scheduled for Grant Thornton to present their proposal to the Audit Feedback was provided to all firms Committee Chair who, along with her fellow on the reasons for the decision.
members, endorsed the appointment of Grant Thornton with effect from February 2019.
The reappointment of PwC will be recommended to shareholders at the Feedback was provided to all firms on the 2019 AGM.
