Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 61 Directors Report The directors of the company present their report for the year Directors interests ended 31 July 2018.
The directors interests in the share capital and listed debt instruments of the company at 31 July and 16 September 2018 The Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 54 of this Annual are set out on pages 99 and 101 of the Directors Remuneration Report, and the Corporate Governance Report, committee Report.
reports and the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 80 to 101 of this Annual Report include information that Powers and appointment of directors would otherwise need to be included in this Directors Report.
The companys articles of association set out the powers of the Relevant items are referred to below and incorporated by directors, and rules governing the appointment and removal of reference into this report.
Readers are also referred to the directors.
The articles of association can be viewed at 01 cautionary statement on page 159 of this Annual Report.
Further details on the powers, and Results and Dividends appointment and removal of directors, are set out in the The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 108 of Corporate Governance Report on pages 69 and 70 of this the Financial Statements.
The directors recommend a final Annual Report.
dividend for the year of 42p 2017: 40p on each ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 21p 2017: 20p paid Directors indemnities and insurance in April 2018, makes an ordinary distribution for the year of 63p In accordance with its articles of association, the company has 2017: 60p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by granted a deed of indemnity to each of its directors on terms shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, will consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
The deeds be paid on 20 November 2018 to shareholders on the register at indemnify the directors in respect of liabilities and associated 12 October 2018. costs and expenses incurred in connection with the 02 performance of their duties as a director of the company or any Directors associated company.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions The names of the directors of the company at the date of this for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were report, together with biographical details, are given on pages 58 accordingly in force during the course of the year, and remain in and 59 of this Annual Report.
All the directors listed on those force at the date of this report.
The company also maintains pages were directors of the company throughout the year.
directors and officers liability insurance for its directors and officers.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the current directors will retire at the 2018 AGM and, with the Company Secretary exception of Jonathan Howell, offer themselves for The company secretary of Close Brothers Group plc is Alex reappointment at that meeting.
He can be contacted at the companys registered office.
03 On 25 January 2018, the company announced that Jonathan Share Capital Howell had informed the board of his decision to leave the The companys share capital comprises one class of ordinary company to pursue the next stage of his career.
Jonathan will share with a nominal value of 25p per share.
At 31 July 2018, remain in his role as group finance director, an executive member 152,060,290 ordinary shares were in issue, of which 614,911 of the board and a member of the Group Executive Committee were held by the company in treasury.
Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors On 27 June 2018, the company announced that, following a may allot equity securities only with the express authorisation of robust search process overseen by the Nomination and shareholders which may be given in general meeting, but which Governance Committee, the board had decided to appoint Mike cannot last more than five years.
Under section 561 of the Morgan as group finance director and an executive member of Companies Act, the board may not allot shares for cash the board.
Mikes appointment to the board will be proposed for otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without approval by shareholders at the AGM.
Mike has been chief first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares financial officer of the Groups Banking division and a director of to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to Close Brothers Limited, the companys Banking subsidiary, since their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived November 2010.
He is also a member of both the Group and by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Further information on the process that resulted in Mikes appointment can be found in the At the companys 2017 AGM, the directors were authorised to: report of the Nomination and Governance Committee on page allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or 78 of this Annual Report.
convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,646,853: Further details on the directors remuneration and service allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of contracts or appointment letters as applicable can be found in 25,293,707, for the purposes of a rights issue: the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 and 85 of this allot shares having a nominal amount not exceeding in Annual Report.
aggregate 1,897,028 for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: allot shares having a nominal amount not exceeding 3,794,056 for the purpose of financing a transaction determined by the directors to be an acquisition or other capital investment as defined by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights published by the PreEmption Group: and make market purchases of up to 15,176,224 of the companys ordinary shares, equivalent to 10% of the companys issued share capital at the time.
62 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Directors Report continued Since the date of the companys 2017 AGM, with the exception Restrictions on the transfer of shares of the authority to make market purchases, the directors have There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the not used these authorities.
Details of market purchases of the companys shares which are governed by the general provisions companys ordinary shares during the year can be found below of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The in the section headed Purchase of Own Shares.
articles of association set out certain circumstances in which the directors of the company can refuse to register a transfer of The existing authorities given to the company at the last AGM to ordinary shares.
allot and purchase shares will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
At the AGM, shareholders will be asked to The company is not aware of any arrangements between its renew these authorities.
Details of the relevant resolutions to be shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of proposed will be included in the Notice of AGM.
shares and or voting rights.
New issues of share capital Directors and employees of the group are required to comply No ordinary shares were allotted and issued during the year.
with applicable legislation relating to dealing in the companys Specifically, no ordinary shares were allotted and issued during shares as well as the companys share dealing rules.
These rules the year to satisfy option exercises.
Full details of options restrict employees and directors ability to deal in ordinary exercised, the weighted average option exercise price and the shares at certain times, and require the employee or director to weighted average market price at the date of exercise can be obtain permission prior to dealing.
Some of the groups found in note 26 on page 141 of the financial statements.
employee share plans also contain restrictions on the transfer of shares held within those plans.
Cancellation of the companys share premium account At the companys 2017 AGM, shareholders approved a special Purchase of Own Shares resolution to cancel the companys share premium account in Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006, a company may order to increase the companys distributable reserves.
As purchase its own shares to be held in treasury Treasury announced by the company on 13 December 2017, following Shares.
confirmation from the High Court, the amount of 307,762,365.31, being the entire amount standing to the credit The existing authority given to the company at the last AGM to of the companys share premium account, was cancelled and purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share the resulting sum credited to the distributable profits of the capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this Rights attaching to shares authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to purchase The companys articles of association set out the rights and Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares.
All of the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Details ordinary shares rank equally in all respects.
of the resolution renewing the authority will be included in the Notice of AGM.
On a show of hands, each member has the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
On a poll, each member Awards under the companys employee share plans are met would be entitled to one vote for every share held.
The shares from a combination of shares purchased in the market and held carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has any special rights either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well as by of control over the companys share capital and all shares are newly issued shares.
During the year the company made market purchases of The articles of association and applicable legislation provide that 523,616 Treasury Shares with an aggregate nominal value of the company can decide to restrict the rights attaching to 130,904.00, representing 0.3% of its issued share capital, for ordinary shares in certain circumstances such as the right to an aggregate consideration of 7.4 million.
It transferred 211,819 attend or vote at a shareholders meeting, including where a shares out of treasury, to satisfy share option awards, for a total person has failed to comply with a notice issued by the company consideration of 2.3 million.
under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
At 31 July 2018, the company held 614,911 Treasury Shares with Deadline for voting rights a nominal value of 0.2 million.
The maximum number of Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect Treasury Shares held at any time during the year was 680,342 of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM, to be held on with a nominal value of 0.2 million.
15 November 2018, will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 63 Employee Share Trust significant Agreements Affected by a Change of Control Ocorian Trustees Jersey Limited is the trustee of the Close A number of agreements to which the company is a party may Brothers Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the which holds shares for the benefit of employees and former company.
These include certain insurance policies, bank facility employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a agreements and employee share plans.
number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the company funds the trust, from time to The group had committed facilities totalling 1.4 billion at 31 July time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these 2018 which contain clauses requiring lender consent for any awards, details of which are set out in note 26 on page 141 of change of control.
Should consent not be given, a change of the financial statements.
The trustee has waived its right to control would trigger mandatory repayment of those facilities.
01 dividends on all shares held within the trust.
All of the companys employee share plans contain provisions During the year, the employee share trust made market relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options purchases of 581,286 ordinary shares.
may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject, where appropriate, to the satisfaction of any Substantial Shareholdings performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
Details of substantial shareholdings in the company are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 73 of this Financial Instruments Annual Report.
Details of the groups financial instruments can be found in notes 11 to 14, 18 to 20 and 28 to the financial statements.
The notes Articles of Association begin on page 115.
The companys articles of association were last amended in 02 November 2009.
They may only be amended by a special Financial Risk Management resolution of the companys shareholders.
The articles of The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and association can be viewed at www.
evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk management objectives and policies are described on pages 71 Corporate Governance Statement and 72, and the risks associated with the groups financial The company is required by the Disclosure Guidance and instruments are analysed in note 28 on pages 144 to 155 of the Transparency Rules to prepare a corporate governance financial statements.
statement including certain specified information.
Information fulfilling the requirements of the corporate governance statement Post-Balance Sheet Events can be found in this Directors Report and the Corporate There were no material post-balance sheet events.
Governance Report, committee reports and Directors 03 Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 101 of this Annual Report.
Political Donations This information is incorporated by reference into this No political donations were made during the year 2017: nil.
Charitable Donations Strategic Report Further information on the groups charitable activities, and on The companys Strategic Report can be found on pages 4 to 54 the charitable donations made in the year, can be found on page of this Annual Report.
51 as part of the Strategic Report.
Business activities Disclosure of Information Under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The groups business activities, together with a description of As required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4CR, the table below sets out the future developments including the factors likely to affect future location of information required to be disclosed under Listing development and performance and its summarised financial Rule 9.8.
4R: position, are set out in the Strategic Report.
Subject Page Employment practices and greenhouse gas emissions Details of shareholder See the section headed Employee Information on the companys employment practices including dividend waivers Share Trust on page 63 with respect to disabled employees and employee involvement and greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Sustainability Report on pages 44 to 54 of the Strategic Report.
64 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Directors Report continued Research and Development Activities Going Concern During the normal course of business, the group continues to The group has a strong, proven and conservative business invest in new technology and systems and to develop new model and has traded profitably during the year.
It is well products and services to improve operating efficiency and positioned in each of its core businesses, well capitalised, strengthen its customer proposition.
soundly funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
Resolutions at the 2018 AGM After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The companys AGM will be held on 15 November 2018. expectation that the company and the group have adequate Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the resources to continue in operational existence for the reappointment of directors, the annual advisory vote to approve foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the the Directors Remuneration Report, the renewal of the directors going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
authority to allot shares, the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authority for the company to purchase its own shares.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The full text of each of the resolutions to be proposed at the Governance Code, the board confirms that it has a reasonable 2018 AGM will be set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the expectation that the group will continue to operate and meet its companys shareholders.
A letter from the chairman and liabilities, as they fall due, for the three-year period up to 31 July explanatory notes will accompany the Notice of AGM.
A period of three years has been chosen because it is the period covered by: i the groups strategic planning cycle: and ii Auditor the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP,  LLP PwC has expressed its which forecasts key capital requirements and other group-wide willingness to continue in office as the companys external internal stress testing.
Resolutions to reappoint PwC and to give the directors the authority to determine the auditors remuneration will be The directors assessment has been made with reference to: proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The full text of the relevant the groups current position and prospects please see the resolutions will be set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the Financial Overview on pages 26 to 31: companys shareholders.
the groups business model and strategy please see Business Model, and Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Disclosure of Information to the Auditor on pages 14 to 19: and Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval of the boards risk appetite, and the robust assessment of the this Annual Report confirms that: groups principal risks and how these are managed, including so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit the results of the ICAAP please see Risk and Control information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Framework on page 71. they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant The groups strategy and three-year plan are evaluated and audit information and to establish that the companys auditor approved by the directors on an annual basis.
The plan is aware of that information.
considers the groups future projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and resources, and other key This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in financial and regulatory ratios over the period.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The groups principal risks and ICAAP are also evaluated by the directors on an annual basis, including the results of two separate ICAAP stress scenarios.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 65 Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The directors, whose names and functions are listed in the records that are sufficient to show and explain the group and Directors Report, are responsible for preparing the Annual parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Report and the financial statements in accordance with accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and applicable law and regulation.
parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Directors Remuneration Report comply with Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and parent International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 01 by the European Union and the parent company financial prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting of the corporate and financial information included on the Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the group and Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their parent company for that period.
knowledge: the group and parent company financial statements, prepared In preparing the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with the relevant financial reporting frameworks, 02 the directors are required to: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them position and profit or loss of the group and parent company consistently: respectively: make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Strategic Report, together with the Directors Report and reasonable and prudent: the Corporate Governance Report, include a fair review of the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European development and performance of the business and the Union have been followed for the group financial statements, position of the group and parent company, together with a and whether United Kingdom Accounting Standards, description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard face: and applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, law have been followed for the parent company financial are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 03 statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and information necessary for shareholders to assess the group explained in the group and parent company financial and parent companys position, performance, business model statements: and and strategy.
prepare the group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to By order of the board presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Alex Dunn Company Secretary 25 September 2018
