58 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Governance Board of Directors Mike Biggs Preben Prebensen Elizabeth Lee Jonathan Howell Chairman Chief Executive Group Head of Legal and Group Finance Director Regulatory Affairs Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment Mike was appointed a director Preben was appointed to Elizabeth was appointed Jonathan was appointed to in March 2017 and chairman of the board as chief executive a director in August 2012 the board as group finance the board from 1 May 2017. in April 2009 when he with responsibility for legal director in February 2008 when joined Close Brothers.
Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Mike has over 40 years Preben previously spent his Elizabeth joined Close Jonathan was previously group experience of the financial career in a number of senior Brothers as general counsel finance director of London Stock services industry.
Mike positions at JP Morgan over in September 2009.
She Exchange Group plc from 1999 was previously chairman of 23 years, as well as being was previously with Lehman to 2008.
Prior to that he was Resolution Limited, the FTSE chief executive of Wellington Brothers and General Electrics at Price Waterhouse where 100 UK life assurance business, Underwriting plc from 2004 to financial services businesses he qualified as a chartered and has acted as both chief 2006, and then chief investment and prior to that she was a accountant.
He is also a nonexecutive officer and group officer and a member of the partner at the law firm Richards executive director of The Sage finance director of Resolution group executive committee at Butler now Reed Smith.
Group plc, where he is chairman plc.
Prior to that he was group Catlin Group Limited.
Preben is of the Audit and Risk Committee.
finance director of Aviva plc.
also a non-executive director of Mike is also chairman of Direct The British Land Company PLC.
Committee membership Mike is chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 59 01 Geoffrey Howe Lesley Jones Bridget Macaskill Oliver Corbett Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment Board appointment Geoffrey was appointed a Lesley was appointed a Bridget was appointed a Oliver was appointed a director in January 2011 director in December 2013. director in November 2013. director in June 2014. and is the companys senior 02 independent director.
Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Geoffrey is chairman of Lesley has extensive banking Bridget is chairman of First Oliver is chief financial officer Jardine Lloyd Thompson experience, having previously Eagle Holdings LLC and a of Hyperion Insurance Group Group plc.
He was previously held several line management senior adviser to First Eagle Limited and was formerly finance chairman of Railtrack plc and positions within Citigroup and Investment Management LLC, director of LCH, Clearnet Group of Nationwide Building Society, was group chief credit officer of which she was president Limited and of Novae Group plc.
a non-executive director of of Royal Bank of Scotland plc and chief executive officer He is a chartered accountant Investec plc and of JP Morgan from 2008 to 2014.
She is also and previously worked for Overseas Investment Trust plc, also a non-executive director a non-executive director of KPMG, SG Warburg, Phoenix a director of Robert Fleming of Northern Bank Limited Jupiter Fund Management plc Securities later Donaldson 03 Holdings Limited and managing and N Brown Group plc.
and of Jones Lang LaSalle Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner partner of Clifford Chance.
Incorporated, and chairman Kleinwort Wasserstein, where of Cambridge Associates he was managing director of LLC.
Bridget was previously a investment banking.
Oliver was trustee of the TIAA-CREF funds also a non-executive director and a non-executive director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
of Prudential plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc, J Sainsbury plc, Hillsdown Holdings plc and of the Federal National Mortgage Association in the US.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Geoffrey is a member of Lesley is chairman of the Risk Bridget is chairman of the Oliver is chairman of the the Audit, Remuneration, Committee and a member Remuneration Committee Audit Committee and a Risk, and Nomination and of the Audit, Remuneration, and a member of the Audit, member of the Remuneration, Governance Committees.
and Nomination and Risk, and Nomination and Risk, and Nomination and Governance Committees.
