Strategic report Business model and strategy Realising value and reinvesting for the future GROWTH THROUGH REINVESTMENT We acquire we secure the right the right properties finance... WE ACQUIRE THE RIGHT PROPERTIES WE SECURE THE RIGHT FINANCE We invest in commercial real estate inthe UK, Most of our properties are held in their own SPV, Germany and France.
and are financed with bank loans borrowed by 95% of our properties are offices.
the SPV on a non-recourse basis to the rest of We look to acquire properties in high quality, nonthe Group.
prime locations with good transport links and located We have the flexibility to borrow at fixed or in key European cities.
floating rates of interest and by borrowing Many of our properties are multi-let to a wide variety against each asset, we are able to use a level of of occupiers, giving us the opportunity to add value gearing suitable to the specific property.
Where properties are more suited to being The cost of buying investment properties is met financed together, such as on the acquisition of a partly from the Groups liquid resources and partly larger portfolio, we finance them under one loan, from external financing.
Liquid resources are often with the flexibility to withdraw properties supplemented by disposal proceeds from selling from charge and to substitute others.
assets which present limited furtheropportunities to Our bank borrowing is typically for five or seven add value.
years, and as most of our debt is obtained from We have the ability to move quickly due to our strong local banks, we have active relationships with 26 balance sheet.
lenders around Europe, which spreads our risk.
Our in-house sustainability programme is focus In everything we do to secure the right finance, on mitigating our impact on climate change and we always generate responsible profit through continually improving our properties.
creating sustainable long-term decisions with the environment in mind.
For more information on acquiring the right properties For more information on securing finance see pages 10-11 see pages 10-11 08 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Business model and strategy Our corporate objective is to create sustainable, longterm value through owning and actively managing highyielding office properties in Realising value and key European cities reinvesting for the future GROWTH THROUGH REINVESTMENT SELL we deliver value We reward through active shareholders, HOLD management and customers, costcontrol and employees WE DELIVER VALUE THROUGH REWARDING SHAREHOLDERS, ACTIVE MANAGEMENT AND COST CUSTOMERS, AND EMPLOYEES CONTROL The key to active management is to perform it Approximately half of our EPRA earnings are in-house, because, by using our own employees, distributed to shareholders.
This represents we harness greater motivation, response times 28.1 million of the 53.5 million of EPRA and attention to detail than if tasks were to earnings in 2018.
The balance is reinvested in be outsourced.
the business, increasing the size of the Company.
In-house management includes asset In this way shareholders can be rewarded partly management leasing, property management in cash and partly in the capital appreciation refurbishments, facilities management day-toof their shares.
As we are not a REIT, we are day maintenance, development management, not restricted in the amount we are required to tenant billing and debt collection, and purchase distribute to shareholders, which benefits the ledger andservice charge management.
business in the longer term.
By performing all of these functions in-house we Our tenants are our customers.
They benefit control costs through efficient working, and we from a landlord who understands their needs maintain ourrevenue stream through providing and who provides cost-effective accommodation afirst-rate service to our customers.
through investing its profits back into This approach allows us to develop and embed its business.
environmental behaviours across our managed We reward employees for their work and their landscape.
This supports our impact on climate loyalty, through bonus schemes which reflect change and gives our shareholders confidence in the success of the business, which aligns our day-to-day management.
their interests with our shareholders and our customers.
For more information on active management see pages 10-11 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 09
