Strategic Report Our Business Model How we create value 1.
What we do Where we do it Cobham offers an innovative range of technologies and services to Cobhams innovative technologies are predominantly used to produce solve challenging problems in our defence, commercial aerospace and critical products and subsystems i. e. at tier 2 and tier 3 in our space markets.
To meet often complex customer requirements, we markets.
Wealso provide components tier 4, particularly when these need to deliver consistently.
This is particularly important as our are key building blocks for our larger and more complex offerings.
products and services often help keep people alive and protect assets Within theAviation Services business, we also provide fully integrated in harsh or remote environments.
long term contracts at the tier 1 level: not only does this provide recurring revenue streams but it can also help us demonstrate our products topotential customers in a live environment a product inaservicewrapper.
Examples of the industry value chain How we generate value We have differentiation in many of our specialist capabilities and know-how.
Aircraft These are often high value add, and support customers with requirements Platforms Missiles for demanding environments in space, air, land and sea, which often FullyIntegrated Medical and Industrial Equipment meansa requirement for mobile capability.
These requirements for mobility Systems and Satellites Commercial and Military prioritise small, light products that use the least amount of power possible.
Services In flight operational readiness training Given the environments in which our products and services must operate, Tier 2. these are critical to customer success.
This is why Every Mission Matters.
Complete Apertures Major Missile Subsystems How we share value Subsystems Electronic Warfare Subsystems Shareholders Our technology differentiation and high value add products and servicesprovide a stream of profit and cash from which we provide Tier 3.
Radar Modules returns to ourshareholders.
Integrated Microelectronic Assemblies Assemblies Power Distribution Modules Employees Actuation Gimbal Assemblies We have around 10,000 employees.
The nature of our activities supports high quality, sustainable employment, with an emphasis on highly trained Tier 4. engineers and other skilled professionals.
Diodes Components Radiation Hardened Components Customers Capacitors We provide highly capable products, which are critical to our customers.
Filters We operate in environments where size, weight and power consumption of our technology really matters in addition to reliability and a compelling value proposition.
12 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key factors that underpin our business model 3.
Culture A highly effective culture is key to our success.
We understand that Every Mission Matters and we encourage our employees to be bold, be inventive, be determined and be a team.
This is what we believe it means to Be Cobham.
Ethics We operate in highly regulated markets, often Identify Design dealing with sensitive technologies on behalf Our customers are a The capability and know-how of of governments, and undertaking critical primary focus, including our technology specialists support our responsiveness to our ability to design products with capabilities for a range of customers.
Our their needs and delivery complex customer requirements.
ethics training programme is mandated with all to their requirements.
Our Ongoing investment supports our employees completing it annually, so that they reputation, long experience differentiation and the delivery are aware of their responsibilities and act and leading market positions ofnext generation products givecustomers confidence and services, with programme accordingly, while carrying out their duties on Customer and underpin our ability management critical todelivering behalf of Cobham.
tomake areturn on focus next generation technology ontechnology investment.
Health and Safety We have a proactive Health and Safety programme and look to continuously improve Deliver our performance.
Our ability to attract and Our customer delivery not only depends retain talented employees in a competitive on our ability to deliver complex designs, environment is in part linked to keeping our but also on an effective and responsive supply chain, on a manufacturing strategy employees safe and free from harm.
with embedded continuous improvement In addition, our operational improvement and on the financial strength to constantly strategyis also linked to an effective Health invest in infrastructure and equipment.
Environment Our impact on the environment is manifested through what we do and also what we sell.
Our biggest direct impact is in Aviation Services, where we look for efficiencies to improve the fuel consumption of our aircraft.
We also recognise the importance of developing smaller, lighter products, helping our customers to reduce energy consumption and lower emissions.
