Strategic Report Capabilities In Action Capabilities in action AVIATOR S Cobhams next generation digital antenna enables aircraft performance data to be relayed toground crews long before landing, reducing aircraft on ground time and assisting predictive maintenance.
Additionally, enhanced positional tracking can Radio and Audio Integrated beused to allow more aircraft to Management System RAIMS usethe same airspace, significantly Cobhams digital RAIMS introduces a improving efficiency and reducing flexible architecture and digital audio fuelusage.
This enables aircrew to control aircraft communications, navigation and data-link systems through a single integrated interface, reducing pilot workload and saving weight and space in the cockpit.
Weather antenna Intercoms Cobham designs and manufactures flat Cobham provides intercoms or aircraft plate slotted array antennas with a audio address systems, which allow variety of applications, including for the distribution of music, safety alerts weather radar on commercial aircraft.
or passenger announcements from either the cockpit or the cabin.
Clocks Cobham provides Global Positioning System synchronised atomic aircraft clocks.
These distribute highly accurate information to on-board avionics systems, enabling them to provide a 14 critical fall back safetysystem.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Lights Cobham offers a wide range of internal and external aircraft lights based on the latest technologies including Light Emitting Diode and High-Intensity Discharge lighting.
Communication, Navigation and Surveillance CNS antennas Cobham provides a suite of CNS antennas for Airbus aircraft.
To meetnext-generation requirements, Cobham isdeveloping new antenna architectures which will reduce weight and drag, thereby lowering fuelconsumption.
The Airbus A320 aircraft features a range of Cobham Fuel tank inerting technology from satellite Cobhams air separation module is used to prevent explosions in fuel tanks for arange of commercial aircraft.
communication equipment, providing cockpit Internet Protocol connectivity, to fuel tank inerting keeping passengers and crew safe.
The aircraft operating environment is an illustration of our ability to provide capable products and know-how that operate in harsh 15 or remote environments.
