Strategic Report Our Markets Attractive growth opportunities US defence security financial years.
However, it is likely that, in the event of Revenue by market % Represents 38% of Group revenue in 2018 a broadly flat budgetary outcome in 2020, some 38% US defence security growth in outlays will continue through that year.
26% The US defence security market is growing, UK RoW defence security primarily driven by elevated security The timing of annual budget approvals is also 36% Commercial tensions.
important, with the potential for delays in approvals to cause short term disruption to the Cobham has significant exposure to the US allocation of funds and programme level defence budget, in particular to the Procurement contracting.
Without a signed bill, the Department and Research, Development, Test and Evaluation of Defense DoD operates under a stop-gap US Department of Defense National accounts, together known as the investment funding measure called a Continuing Resolution, Defense Outlays $bn accounts.
It has some exposure to other budget which places additional constraints on spending.
2018 107 73 line items, including the Operations and 2019 119 86 Maintenance and Overseas Contingency Cobhams relevance to the market 2020 130 92 Operations accounts, as well as to other US Federal The US DoDs 2018 National Defense Strategy of 2021 134 92 budgets including NASA and security agencies.
the United States of America has as a priority the 2022 136 89 modernisation of key capabilities, including Procurement RDT&E US defence budgets have been historically space, missile defence and command, control, Source: National Defense Budget Estimates for FY 2019 impacted by two primary factors.
These are communications and computers, intelligence, Green Book macroeconomic conditions, including the level of surveillance and reconnaissance referred to national debt and Federal budget deficits, as well asC4ISR.
The objective to modernise these, as global security tensions.
Today, Federal debt and various other capabilities, aligns levels are high, with a sizeable budget deficit, but with Cobhams specialist technologies and macroeconomic conditions and security.
Today, security tensions are elevated with a number of capabilities, positioning it well to benefit from US there are elevated security tensions in many parts ongoing regional conflicts, and other potential marketdevelopments.
of the world, including in the Middle East, in Asia, trouble spots around the globe.
in Eastern Europe and in Africa.
In Europe, national debt levels remain high, with budget deficits in As a result of these ongoing tensions, there was a UK, RoW defence security many countries.
However, the security situation significant increase in the approved investment Represents 26% of Group revenue in 2018 has caused a willingness to spend money on accounts budget for 2018, which has been defence after a number of years of cuts.
For followed by a smaller increase for 2019.
Beyond A range of international opportunities example, NATO, which includes some significant this time frame, it seems likely that the overall across theworld.
defence budgets, made a public pledge in 2014 defence budget will flatten out due to growing that each of its 29 members should spend a concerns about Federal deficits.
However, neither Cobham supplies its products and services to an minimum of 2% of Gross Domestic Product GDP the budget trajectory nor the investment addressable global defence security customer on defence per year.
Only 4 members including accounts share of the overall budget can be base.
Addressable UK, RoW defence security the US out of 27 spent 2% or more of GDP on ascertained today with certainty.
spending is likely to deliver modest growth overall, defence in that year and it is expected that there driven by security tensions, albeit with regional will be 8 in 2018, with a further 7 members There is typically a time lag between approval and and inter-regional variations.
While international anticipated to achieve this pledge by 2024. spending of the defence budget the latter referred to budgets are impacted by a variety of specific as outlays.
This lag is hard to estimate accurately, as it regional and local factors, not always mirroring Outside of NATO, some other large defence depends on a number of factors with, for example the US, the basic factors that affect US budgets, budgets have continued to be strong, with growth 10 certain budget line items being spent over multiple also impact other national budgets: namely expected in national budgets including India, the Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Airbus No.
of Aircraft Middle East and East Asia.
In addition, in many of these markets there are increasing numbers of safety 47,987 50,000 37,389 Within international markets Cobham also mandates leading to demand for products that 40,000 provides specialist Aviation Services to save lives and safeguard assets.
30,000 37,389 New Deliveries government customers, including maritime 21,453 20,000 surveillance, search and rescue and operational 1,560 Our commercial markets 10,000 readiness training for fixed and rotary wing aircraft 9,038 % of Group revenue 0 applications.
While these markets are competitive, Beginning 2018 2037 future market dynamics are expected to be Aerospace Space New deliveries Converted Remaining favourable as Cobham is able to supply military Source: Airbus Global Market Forecast GMF for 2018- related services at the fraction of a cost of a 10% 10% 2037.
Includes passenger aircraft above 100 seats and freighter aircraft above 10 tonnes.
military asset, thereby delivering customers needed services in a very cost effective way.
of Aircraft Indicative Growth Outlook in UK, 48,540 50,000 Outsourced Other RoW Defence Expenditure bn 24,140 Aviation Services 40,000 24,140 New Deliveries 2018 244 30,000 2019 257 24,400 8% 8% 18,590 20,000 2020 270 10,000 2021 264 5,810 0 2022 270 2017 2036 Source: Strategic Defence Intelligence based on Growth Replacement Retained investment budgets in Cobhams addressable markets.
Excludes inaccessible defence security geographies.
Source: Boeing commercial market outlook 2018-2037.
Includes maritime and land SATCOM Includes regional jet, single aisle, wide body and Includes industrial, mining, medical and energy freighteraircraft.
markets Cobhams relevance to the market The US is the worlds largest exporter of defence security equipment and Cobham benefits from Cobhams largest markets include aerospace, equipment used for ground and sea applications, its positions on US platforms and programmes.
where it supplies products on large commercial providing communications links to satellites.
It In addition, Cobham also has good positions on transport aircraft, with Cobham products that are also provides products on satellites, including non-US platforms and programmes.
These also fitted in the factory, or used in the aftermarket.
radiation hardened, high reliability offer additional export opportunities for The aerospace market is expected to benefit from microelectronics and waveguides.
Space offers Cobhams critical technologies.
increases in production over the long term, leading some attractive opportunities, as it undergoes a to increased flying.
period of innovation and change.
The satellite market should deliver near term growth due to the Commercial We have included more detail on some of our launch of a number of low and mid-earth orbit Represents 36% of Group revenue in 2018 capabilities in commercial aerospace markets on mega constellations, which will supplement pages 14 to 15. traditional geostationary satellites.
Positions in a number of attractive commercial markets, with aerospace and In addition, Cobham also has positions in Cobhams relevance to the market space at its core.
commercial aviation services in Australia where it Cobham has a number of specialist positions provides crew and maintenance services on the on high volume large transport passenger Cobhams commercial positions are focused Qantas fleet of Boeing 717 aircraft, used for aircraft.
It is adding to its capabilities with new around aerospace and space markets.
Its products regular passenger airline services.
It also provides products under development, including the are often used for communication purposes, closed charter flying services for natural resources AVIATOR S light SATCOM antenna and the typically in harsh or remote environments.
The latter market has been through a digital Radio and Audio Integrated Demand is driven by an increasing global down turn.
It is now showing signs of recovery, as Management System.
These products will be propensity to travel leading to a requirement for commodity prices increase, although market fitted on the Airbus A320neo, and other communication voice, video and data in conditions still present challenges.
Cobhams small, light and easy to difficult environments.
maintain Air Separation Module is used inthe Cobham also has positions in different parts of the aftermarket for Boeing 737NG and Airbus Demand for communication is driven both space market.
In addition to aerospace related A320aircraft.
It mitigates the risk of fuel tank by operational efficiency and passenger products, it also provides satellite communication explosions.
In maritime markets, Cobhams SATCOM products enable smart shipping by which operators can generate increased data derived information to help lower their costs in We have long experience in our a competitive market.
three end markets, with broad 11 exposure to each
