Strategic Report Our Turnaround Strategy We are seeing an improving operational performance The Group turnaround strategys primary focus is on improving operational performance.
This is key to delivering improvements in financial performance, including generating revenue growth and underlying operating profit margin enhancement.
Late delivery to customers and the rework of products that have failed postHigh quality Customer production quality tests are significant standards orders costs.
Theyalso often result in the need to have in place additional overheads resulting in costinefficiencies.
Customer In short, operational improvement completes a New improved focus virtuous circle which helps us grow revenue by On-time and products and consistently and reliably delivering to our on-budget enhanced customers, as well as improving our underlying delivery process and operating margin.
delivery Investment in See the Chief Executive Officers Statement on technology, pages 6-9 for a description of our progress during facilities and the year.
Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs on process pages 18 and 19 set out the 2018 progress towards achieving our medium term financial and nonfinancial targets.
Enhancing programme management is key to our turnaround Programme management Our delivery framework Effective programme management enables Among a number of other initiatives aimed at enhancing our programme management, we have us to deliver to our customers on-time and implemented a new Delivery Framework.
This simplifies processes, clarifies responsibilities and on-budget, increases control over and assigns project categories according to size, risk and strategic importance.
execution of a range of major projects and underpins the effective allocation of capital.
The Framework is arranged around five guiding principles as follows: Programme management sits at the heart of our improvement efforts, impacting our 1.
Policies and procedures Sets out a clear Framework to deliver leading practice for business in a number of important ways.
effective risk management across the range of projects undertaken within the Group.
Guide and templates Specifies a clearly accountable leader, or sponsor, with standard templates giving consistency and transparency over decision making.
Decision making Ensures that each project is managed according to the same principles, Programme management overview: using clearly defined phases: each phase is subject to a formalised review before a project can advance.
A ssurance Provides for effective assurance processes throughout the life of a project, ongoing giving confidence that each is on-track and progressing as expected.
Training Ensures that everyone involved in programme delivery receives a consistent level investment in 2018 2017:122m of training, with internal coaching available so experience can be retained and disseminated Over 100 internal change projects throughout the Group.
ongoing including divestments 16 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Capital Allocation and Organic Strategy which underpins our organic growth strategy Capital allocation to invest in attractive opportunities whenever they arise.
Our top priority is to We have announced our target balance sheet structure and capital allocation invest organically in the business, consistent with our growth strategy set out and dividend policy, reflecting the tremendous progress we have made in at the bottom of the page.
strengthening the Groups balance sheet over the last two years.
The capital allocation policy is aligned to our strategy development and includes the Our second priority is to pay a dividend.
The intention to reinstate a dividend maintenance of a strong balance sheet, which gives us flexibility, allowing us with the 2019 interims is evidence of our confidence in the business.
Organic investment Bolt-on M&A Invest for growth e. g. capabilities, Only where there is: technology investment, capital - A strong strategic fit Maintain strong expenditure as well as resolution - Management bandwidth to integrate balancesheetwith of legacy items gearing 1.5xnet debt EBITDA 2.
4. Dividend Capital return Reinstate dividend with H1 2019: initial 1.0p full year dividend If there is surplus capital to needs Progressive over time Ensure appropriate underlying earnings and FCF cover Afteroutstanding liabilities for onerous contracts and other legacy items Free cash flow Our Organic Growth Strategy Market Development We Will Avoid Unrelated Not only do we sell more to existing customers, we can attract and Diversification retain customers across a wider range of attractive geographic We are best able to deliver to customers, use the talents of our markets, so expanding our geographic base and customer footprint.
employees and deliver shareholder value when we stick to what we are good at.
The Board believes unrelated diversification is a higher risk strategy, which is less likely to benefit our stakeholders.
Existing Markets and Product Service Development Our focus on improving our customer delivery will enable us to sell Products Services more to our existing customers.
By staying close to our core Cobham sells to customers who are concentrated in a limited capabilities we will offer complementary technology and knownumber of geographic markets.
This is our core customer base who how, thus increasing our share of customer spending.
will benefit from our improved delivery and engagement.
17 Existing Products Services New Existing Customers New
