STRATEGIC REPORT OUR SECTORS Understanding our clients The global food services market is large and disparate.
That is why we segment the market into various sectors and sub-sectors using our portfolio ofB2B brands.
It enables us to be closer to our clients and consumers to better understand their different needs.
In this way, we can create innovative, bespokeoffers that meet their specific requirements and, in doing so, trulydifferentiate ourselves.
BUSINESS We provide a choice of quality, nutritious and well balanced food for 39% &INDUSTRY employees during their working day.
We work with clients to enhance OF GROUP UNDERLYING theiremployee proposition and help them create attractive and REVENUE productiveworkplaces.
HEALTHCARE We are specialists in helping hospitals in the public and private sectors on 24% &SENIORS their journey of managing efficiency and enhancing quality across a range OF GROUP UNDERLYING offood and some support services.
We have an increasing presence in the REVENUE growing senior living market.
EDUCATION From kindergarten to college, we provide fun, nutritious dining solutions that 18% help support academic achievement at the highest levels.
We educate young OF GROUP UNDERLYING people on how to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle while contributing REVENUE to a sustainable world.
SPORTS Operating at some of the worlds most prestigious sporting and leisure 12% & LEISURE venues, exhibition centres, visitor attractions and major events, we have OF GROUP UNDERLYING anenviable reputation for providing outstanding hospitality and true REVENUE serviceexcellence.
DEFENCE, Through our established health and safety culture, we are a market leader in 7% OFFSHORE providing food and some support services to major companies in the oil, gas, OF GROUP &REMOTE UNDERLYING mining and construction industries.
For our defence sector clients, we are a REVENUE partner that runs efficient operations outside areas of conflict.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 7
