T h e s t r u c t u r a l g r o w t h o p p o r t u n i t y OUR MARKET POSITION Significant structural growth opportunity across our core sectorsand markets We estimate that the addressable global food services market is currently worth in excess of 200 billion.
We have around a 10% share of that market by sales which makes us the leading global provider.
Given that approximately 75% of the market is serviced by regional players or in-house providers, we believe that there is a significant structural growth opportunity for us.
The market for food services continues to offer significant growth GLOBAL FOOD SERVICES MARKET c. 200bn potential as we drive outsourcing and deliver a strong proposition across our core sectors and regions.
Compass provides outsourced food services around the world in a market worth over 200 billion.
The five sectors in which Compass LARGE operates are: Business & Industry: Healthcare & Seniors: Education: PLAYERS Sports & Leisure: and Defence, Offshore & Remote.
All five sectors 14% continue to offer significant opportunities for growth.
COMPASS GROUP Food service remains at the core of the Compass offer.
Business & Industry accounts for around 40% of this value, and this important 10% SELF sector continues to offer attractive growth opportunities.
In more OPERATED developed markets where outsourcing rates are routinely in excess of 60%, our combination of scale, efficiencies and best in class 50% service delivery supports continued revenue growth.
In emerging markets, outsourcing rates are still only around 10%, providing a significant opportunity for future growth.
REGIONAL PLAYERS The Healthcare & Seniors and Education sectors also continue to grow, with less than half of the addressable global market currently 26% outsourced.
We are developing best practices in areas such as our proposition for hospital visitors and nutritional meal planning in schools and, by sharing this expertise, we can better serve our clients and consumers across multiple markets.
Sports & Leisure is a highly outsourced sector with a global outlook Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates are based on management in which we benefit from our strong reputation across key markets.
estimates and a range of external data.
The Defence, Offshore & Remote sector offers opportunities to buildlasting strategic relationships with large local and international operators.
Creating strong client relationships allows us to respond Supplementing our core food offer with targeted support services is positively to tougher market conditions.
For example, in the basic attractive in certain markets and sectors, such as Healthcare & commodities sector we have leveraged our cost base and changed Seniors and Defence, Offshore & Remote.
In these sectors, we are our offer to retain business in the face of significant client recognised for fulfilling the needs of clients who require excellent budgetarypressure.
In all the markets and regions in which Compass operates, we continue to build our business and our reputation based on our ongoing focus on health and safety, people, the environment and our firm commitment to responsible corporate practices.
6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
