S E I C N E I C I F F E G N I T A R C E O P O M P T E S T O I C T I V E A OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY A differentiated approach A business model for organic growth Our business model begins with organic growth, which we drive by sectorising and sub-sectorising our business.
This approach differentiates us, and allows us to get close to our customers and create bespoke and innovative solutions.
Organic growth issupplemented by small and medium sized acquisitions that addcapability or scale in our existing markets.
We focus on operational execution and generate efficiencies by optimising our supply chain and diligently managing our food and labour costs.
These efficiencies enable us to reinvest in the significant growth opportunities around the Group and to improve margins.
Our people Our organic revenue growth, the scale it creates and our focus on & culture cost and efficiencies give us a competitive advantage.
We can provide our clients and consumers the best value in terms of quality and cost and this, combined with sectorisation, helps drive long term sustainable organic revenuegrowth.
Our people lie at the heart of our business.
Our aim is to nurture an engaged and highly capable workforce to win new business, manage our units efficiently and effectively, and deliver the healthiest, most innovative food solutions in a way that provides an exceptional experience to our clients and consumers.
A strategy for shareholder value Focus Prioritise on food organic growth Best-in-class execution, quality Targeted approach to Select bolt-on and innovation support services acquisitions OUR PRIORITIES TO DRIVE GROWTH AND DELIVER FOR CLIENTS Food is our focus and our Our preference is to grow corecompetence.
We take organically given that it yields We are committed to providing apragmatic and targeted the highest returns and the best quality and value to approach to other support leverages the significant our clients with best-in-class services, developing strategies structural growth opportunity execution.
We have increased on a country by country basis.
inthe global food services our focus on innovation in our market.
However, we also core food business to bring seekto invest in small to more variety and excitement to medium sized acquisitions, our offer as well as to improve butonly if they areattractive our operations.
targets that have the right cultural fit and further strengthen our organic growthcapabilities.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 D V H A T N W T A O G R E G E U N E V E R C I N A G R O Our values guide our actions and behaviours OPENNESS, TRUST AND INTEGRITY We set the highest ethical and professional standards at all times.
We want all our relationships to be based on honesty, respect, fairness and a commitment to open dialogue and transparency.
PASSION FOR QUALITY We are passionate about delivering superior food and service and take pride in achieving this.
We look to replicate success, learn from mistakes and develop the ideas, innovation and practices that will help us improve and lead our market.
WIN THROUGH TEAMWORK We encourage individual ownership, but work as a team.
We value the expertise, individuality and contribution of all colleagues, working in support of each other and readily sharing good practice in pursuit of shared goals.
RESPONSIBILITY We take responsibility for our actions, individually and as a Group.
Every day, everywhere we look to make a positive contribution to the health and wellbeing of our customers, the communities we work in and the world we live in.
CAN-DO SAFELY We take a positive and commercially aware can-do approach to the opportunities and challenges we face: we always put safety first in everything we do.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 11
