ORDINARY DIVIDENDS SHAREHOLDER RETURNS HOW WE CREATE VALUE Long term stakeholder value Our strategy is to focus on HOW WE CREATE food and ourmodel for VALUE We use the Management and creating value remains Performance MAP framework unchanged.
Its longevity across the business.
isdown to itssimplicity and ORGANIC MAP 1: CLIENT SALES REVENUE GROWTH provensuccess.
ANDMARKETING in the range MAP 1 is about winning new business of 46% Food is our focus and our core and retaining our existing clients.
We take a pragmatic and invest in sales and retention and are increasingly sectorising and subtargeted approach to other support sectorising the business around the world services.
We prioritise organic growth and to allow us to get closer to our customers.
invest in the business to drive new This approach allows us to develop business and retention MAP 1 and 1 & 2 bespoke offers that best meet our consumer sales MAP 2.
relentlessly on costs: this includes MAP 2: CONSUMER SALES managing the cost of food MAP 3, in unit ANDMARKETING labour costs and overheads MAP 4 and Like for like revenue consists of both MARGINS what we term above unit overheads MAP volume and price.
Therefore, it is heavily modest margin 5.
In large markets our scale enables us to influenced both by the number of people improvement have lower food costs and to better at a clients site and by macroeconomic leverage our overhead costs.
We are making good progress with intelligent marketing programmes efficiency andeffectiveness are key to and training schemes as we workhard to improvingmargins.
attract and satisfy our customer base with This focus on organic revenue growth and strong consumer propositions.
margins helps grow our earnings and cash 3, 4 & 5 flow.
Our priorities for cash are clear and MAP 3: COST OF FOOD Food makes up around one third of our simple.
We invest to support organic costs.
In addition to the benefits of our revenue growth of 4-6% and to generate scale in food procurement, we are able to further efficiencies to modestly improve manage foodcosts through careful menu margins.
Capital expenditure can be up to FREE CASH FLOW planning and by rationalising the number 3.5% of sales.
We invest in bolt-on of products we buy and the suppliers we net debt EBITDA 1.5x acquisitions that add capability or scale in buy them from.
an existing market and whose returns MAP 4: IN UNIT COSTS exceed the cost of capital by yeartwo.
In unit costs are made up predominantly of labour.
We focus on getting the right Having invested to support and maintain people in the right place at the right time.
the long term growth prospects of the By using labour scheduling techniques business, we reward our shareholders with and improving productivity, we are our ordinary dividend which grows in line ableto deliver the optimum level of with constant currency earnings.
In service in the most efficient way.
addition, we return any surplus capital that MAP 5: ABOVE UNIT is not reinvested in the business we return OVERHEADS to shareholders via share buybacks or Having reduced the percentage of above special dividends to maintain net debt unit overheads considerably since MAP EBITDA around 1.5x.
was first introduced in2006 by creating a simpler organisational model with fewer layers of management and less bureaucracy, we now strive to leverage those gains by maintaining overheads low whilst we continue to growrevenue.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 INVESTMENT Capex of up to 3.5% of sales bolt-on M&A STRATEGIC REPORT WHO WE CREATE VALUE FOR We have a wide range of stakeholders that includes clients, consumers, colleagues, suppliers and shareholders as well as the communities in which we operate.
We seek to create value for all ourstakeholders and aim to engage with them and take into account their feedback, incorporating it where we can, to ensure that we all benefit from Compass success.
PERFORMANCE PEOPLE PURPOSE CLIENTS & CONSUMERS OUR PEOPLE CONSUMERS, COLLEAGUES, We have a diverse range of clients, Compass is a people-powered business.
SUPPLIERS & THE from large corporations and hospitals Our c. 600,000 colleagues are fundamental ENVIRONMENT to schools, universities and sports arenas.
to delivering high quality foodand service Having a purpose matters, in business We have an even wider range of and maintaining our reputation.
asin life: companies perform best over consumers in terms of the employees, time if their purpose goes beyond profit.
We continue to develop and promote students, patients and sports fans that Consumers will tend to recommend a ourtalent.
This year, two thirds of come to our restaurants and cafs at our company with purpose and younger ouroperational appointments into our client sites.
generations want to work for an leadership group were internal.
Promoting organisation with a positive impact on Across this extraordinarily diverse base, internally helps us share learnings more theworld.
weare conscious of the need to offer all quickly, and builds and strengthens the ofour clients and consumers value in Compass culture which is so important to At the same time, every business has a terms of cost, quality, and innovation.
social impact on the life of employees, Wealso work closely with them to customers and suppliers, their families We continue to focus on the promoteand drive a nutritional health and communities.
This is why at engagementof our people and, this year, andwellness agenda that suits the needs Compasswe decided to embrace we significantly increased our engagement of their specific organisation and paves the anewsocial purpose around two with face to face conversations with way for healthier, more balanced lifestyles.
cornerstones: safety as care and a colleagues in markets that account for renewedcommitment to sustainability.
90% of our revenue to gain a deeper INVESTORS understanding of their views.
They told us We believe that caring for each other is We create long term value for our investors that the camaraderie that comes from what will drive us to further improve our by focusing on our core food business and being part of a high performing team, and global performance both in occupational delivering sustainable organic revenue more focus on recognition, training and and food safety.
And we believe that growth between 4-6% with modest margin promotion were key to increasing their renewing our commitment to peoples improvement and strong cash generation.
health and wellbeing, environment, We reinvest in the business via capital responsible sourcing and local expenditure and bolt-on M&A to support As a result, we are investing further in unit communities is the way to make our the long term growth prospects of the manager training and development, and growth sustainable in the long term.
business and reward shareholders via the launching a Group wide leadership Simply put, we are committed to do the ordinary dividend, special dividends and programme aimed solely at unit managers right thing.
Within this framework to help them engage, lead and motivate wepromote the links between sustainable their teams in unit even more effectively.
We have a fantastic opportunity to educate operations and long term financial success.
our consumers and our people on health We continue to make progress on our and wellness and to drive healthy menus diversity and inclusion agenda.
In the last more actively and more broadly across our year we have improved all our ratios across client base.
populations in the key focus area of gender diversity, increasing female We are also championing initiatives that representation as follows: help the environment.
Stop Food Waste Day began in the USA in 2017 and Executive Board: 11% to 25% expanded into a global programme in Leadership group: 28% to 30% 2018.
We are considering other new Management: 40% to 42% initiatives around packaging and plastics that benefit the environment and change We continue to focus on developing an behaviour for good.
inclusive and welcoming environment for all people with diverse backgrounds, We also continue to collaborate with our talents, skills and abilities through our partners throughout the entire supply people strategy, including our approach chain to deliver sustainable, scalable and tosuccession planning, development secure solutions for food and its opportunities and the way we recruit production to ensure that we source our andattract.
food and non-food products in a transparent and sustainable manner.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 13
