Governance and Directors Report OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES This Directors Report forms part of the management report as RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS required under DTR 4.
The company has chosen, in accordance In the year ended 30 September 2018, the Group delivered an with Section 414 C 11 of the CA 2006, and as noted in this underlying profit before tax of 1,627 million 2017: 1,591 million, Directors Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report an increase of 2.3%: and a statutory profit before tax of 1,520 that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this Directors million 2017: 1,560 million, a decrease of 2.6%.
The Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 43 and the dividends on ordinary shares for the year ended 30September includes an indication of future likely developments in the Company, 2018 compared with 2017 is shown below: details of important events and the Companys business model and YEAR DIVIDEND PENCE PER SHARE strategy.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 100, the 2018 Interim 12.3 Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 94 to 100 and the Directors 1 2018 Final recommended 25.4 Responsibilities Statement on page 101 are incorporated into the 2018 Total 37.7 Directors Report by reference.
2017 Special 61.0 Specifically, the following disclosures have been included elsewhere 2017 Subtotal 61.0 within the Annual Report and are incorporated into the Directors 2017 Interim 11.2 Report by reference.
2017 Final 22.3 DISCLOSURE PAGE 2017 Subtotal 33.5 Going concern 34 2017 Total 94.5 Viability statement 34 1 1.
To be paid gross to holders of ordinary shares of 11 20 pence.
A dividend Risk management 35 reinvestment plan DRIP is available.
The latest date for receipt of elections for Carbon emissions 42 the DRIP is 4 February 2019.
The 2018 interim dividend of 12.3 pence per existing ordinary share DIRECTORS 2017: 11.2 pence was paid to shareholders on 30 July 2018.
Particulars of the directors in office at the date of this Report are listed on pages 49 to 51.
In accordance with the Code, each director Payment of the recommended final dividend for the year ended will retire and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at 30September 2018, if approved at the 2019 AGM, will be made on the 2019 AGM.
25 February 2019 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 18 January 2019.
The shares will be quoted There were a number of changes to the composition of the Board ex-dividend from 17 January 2019. and its committees during the year.
During the year, the trustees of each of the employee benefit trusts On 31 December 2017 Richard Cousins, who was due to which operate in connection with the Companys share plans waived retirefromthe Board on 1 April 2018, died unexpectedly and their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
Details DominicBlakemores appointment as Group CEO was advanced of the trusts can be found on page 96 of this Report.
The value of from 1 April 2018 to 1 January 2018.
Dominic joined dividends waived during the year ended 30 September 2018 in theNomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees on relation to the trusts was 5,389 2017: 15,113. hisappointment as Group CEO.
On 31 May 2018, DonRobert stepped down as a non-executive director and the SID, having spent 1 At the date of this Report, there were 5,669,201 11 20 pence just over nine years on the Board.
On 1 June 2018, Don was ordinary shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the succeeded as the SID by John Bason.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes and Companys obligations under the Companys employee equity John Bryant were appointed as non-executive directorseffective incentive schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not entitled to receive 1July and 1 September 2018 respectively: onappointment both dividends.
Therefore, 2,152,339 2017: 8,262,774 worth of non-executive directors joined the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, dividends were not paid during the financial year in relation to Nomination and Remuneration Committees as members.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible Thomson will step down as GroupFinance Director on 31 December shareholders.
Details can be found on page 190.
As announced on 1 November 2018, Karen Witts will join the Board as Group CFO on 8 April 2019.
94 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE REPURCHASE OF SHARES SHARE CAPITAL No shares were repurchased between 1 October 2017 and 30 GENERAL September 2018.
No further shares have been repurchased in the 1 At the date of this Report, 1,589,736,625 ordinary shares of 11 20 period from 1 October 2018 to the date of this Report.
pence each of which 5,669,201 are held in treasury have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock As at the date of this Report, there are 1,589,736,625 ordinary 1 Exchange.
The total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary shares of 11 20 pence in issue of which 5,669,201 ordinary shares 1 share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of this Report is of 11 20 pence are held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the 1,584,067,424.
In addition, the Company sponsors a Level I Companys obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
American Depositary Receipts programme with BNY Mellon, under Shares held in treasury are not eligible to participate in dividends which the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter and do not carry any voting rights.
market in the form of American Depositary Shares.
Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our During the year ended 30 September 2018, 464,214 options business model and the Groups cash flow generation remains wereexercised and 2,108,092 awards released pursuant to the excellent.
Our priorities for how we use our cash are to: i invest in Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
the business to support organic growth where we see opportunities Alloptions exercised and awards released were satisfied by the with good returns: ii pursue M&A opportunities: our preference is reissue of 2,556,731 treasury shares, and the release of 15,575 for small to medium sized bolt-on acquisitions, where we look for shares from the Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan Trust.
returns greater than our cost of capital by the end of year two: Afurther 2,244 treasury shares have been used to satisfy awards iii grow the dividend in line with underlying constant currency under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the earnings per share: and iv maintain strong investment grade credit dateof this Report.
ratings returning any surplus cash to shareholders to target net debt to EBITDA of around 1.5x.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those restrictions which may from At the 2019 AGM, a special resolution will be proposed to renew the time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In directors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation, certain market, last granted at the 2018 AGM.
Retaining the ability to employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal repurchase shares allows the Board the flexibility of electing to in its shares.
repurchase shares where this is the most effective method of returning cash to shareholders, or to fund bolt-on acquisitions.
The The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders directors consider it desirable for this general authorisation to be that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or renewed in order to assist in maintaining the most efficient capital voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
paid and it will be limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
Any purchases of of the Company following a takeover.
ordinary shares will be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange and any shares purchased may be More detailed information relating to the rights and obligations cancelled or placed into treasury in accordance with the Companies attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003. conferred by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available on the Companys website as well as on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The 2007 Annual Report is available on the Companys website at www.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 95 Governance and Directors Report Other statutory disclosures continued Also, in line with best practice, the Company has not issued more ISSUE OF SHARES than 7.5% of its issued ordinary share capital on a non-prorated At the 2019 AGM, the directors will ask shareholders to renew the basis over the last three years.
The directors have no present authority last granted to them at the 2018 AGM to allot equity shares intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary shares Companys employee equity incentive share schemes, and this calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future Notice of AGM the section 551 authority and, in accordance with share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities, the Investment Association Share Capital Management Guidelines, should appropriate circumstances arise.
the directors again propose to extend this by a further one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, provided that such Details of repurchases into treasury shares and the reissue of amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue.
If treasury shares made during the year, together with details of approved, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the options granted over unissued capital, are set out in the consolidated date on which the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the financial statements on pages 157 to 159.
AGM to be held in 2020, whichever is the sooner.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The limited power granted to the directors at the 2018 AGM to allot The following major shareholdings have been notified to the equity shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, Company as at 30 September 2018 and up to the date of expires no later than 7 May 2019.
Subject to the terms of the section this Report.
551 authority, this authority is in line with the Statement of Principles % OF COMPASS on Pre-emption Rights issued by the Pre-Emption Group and % OF ISSUED GROUP PLCS supported by the Investment Association and the Pensions and 1 1 CAPITAL VOTING RIGHTS Lifetime Savings Association the Principles.
If granted, this Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 authority will give the directors the ability until the AGM to be held in Invesco Limited 4.95 4.95 2020 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to Massachusetts Financial existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a Services Company 9.96 9.96 limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital whether or not in 1.
At the date of disclosure.
connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Notice of AGM.
In accordance with the Principles, the directors Company may have changed.
propose to extend this by an additional 5% of the Companys issued The number of shares held by the directors as at 30 September 2018 ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior can be found on page 92 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
to the publication of the Notice of AGM, provided that the additional authority would only be used for the purpose of an acquisition or a EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The with the issue or which has taken place in the preceding six month Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were established period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
In line on 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with recommended best practice, the Company has split the with the Companys share option plans.
The CGET was closed on disapplication of pre-emption rights authority into two separate 30August 2018.
The Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan resolutions.
The first resolution seeks authorisation for 5% of the Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 in connection with issued ordinary share capital to be issued on an unrestricted basis, the Companys long term incentive plans.
whilst the second resolution seeks authority for an additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be used for an acquisition or a Details of all employee equity incentive schemes are set out specified capital investment.
Thetrusteesofthe ESOP and LTIPT hold nil 2017: nil and nil 2017:15,575 ordinary shares of theCompany respectively.
Atthe date of its closure, the trustees of the CGET held nil ordinaryshares of the Company 2017: nil.
The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and The Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and 22 February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of equity incentive schemes in Australia.
No ordinary shares were held by these trusts as at 30 September 2018 2017: nil.
96 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Company is subject to the Pension Automatic Enrolment AWARDS UNDER EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Regulations for its workforce in the UK.
Both the Plan and CRISP Details of awards made during the year and held by executive are compliant arrangements under these regulations and have been directors as at 30 September 2018 are set out in the Directors registered as such.
All new UK employees who meet the statutory Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 93. eligibility criteria, and who do not join the Plan or CRISP, are Details of employee equity incentive schemes and grants made automatically enrolled into the National Employment Savings Trust during the year ended 30 September 2018, and extant awards held NEST.
Responsibility for the Groups ongoing compliance with the by employees are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements pension automatic enrolment regulations and for ensuring that the on pages 157 to 159. chosen routes for the administration and investment of funds relating to automatic enrolment remain appropriate lies with the EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND INVOLVEMENT Groups Pension Automatic Enrolment Governance Committee.
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal membership of local pension arrangements if and where bulletins and other in-house publications, meetings and the theyexistand where it is appropriate to have Company Companys internal websites, on matters affecting them as .
employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
Group businesses in the European Economic Area EEA are represented Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private on Compass Groups European Works Council EWC, which medicalcover, depending on the local environment.
Priority is provides a forum for exchanging information and engaging in givento the training of employees and the development of their consultation on the Groups performance and plans, and relevant skills.
Employment of people with disabilities is considered on transnational issues affecting those countries in theEEA.
Employees meritwith regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out from across the Groups EEA business have been elected to therole.
Arrangements to enable people with disabilities to carry employee representative roles on the EWC.
outthe duties required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
Anemployee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, Eligible employees in the UK are invited to join the Companys beoffered retraining.
defined contribution pension arrangement, Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan CRISP.
The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This provides the maximum encouragement for the development of The Chairman, Nigel Palmer, is a former employee of the Group.
entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework The other five trustee directors areUK based employees of the exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams Group, three of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
areresponsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety Those UK employees who transferred from the public sector under and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement TUPE were, typically up until 31 March 2015, eligible to join the indecision making.
Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit pension NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING DIRECTIVE arrangement which is otherwise closed to new entrants.
However, under the Governments revised guidance for Fair Deal for staff The EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive the Directive was pensions, the expectation is and therefore the approach has been implemented into English law as the Companies, Partnerships and that the Group participate in the relevant public-sector pension Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016 scheme and close the Plan to future entrants.
The Plan also has a last year.
It requires companies to disclose non-financial information corporate trustee.
Philip Whittome is the independent Chairman.
necessary to provide investors and other stakeholders with a better There are a further six trustee directors, five of whom are either UK understanding of a companys development, performance, position based employees or former employees of the Group three of whom and impact of its activity.
The Audit Committee, which advises the have been nominated by Plan members, and the sixth is an Board on such matters, has concluded that the Company is independent trustee director.
compliant with the Directive and has included the necessary disclosures in this Report.
Throughout this Annual Report the directors have disclosed a mix of financial and non-financial KPIs which they believe best reflect the Groups strategic priorities: and which will help to convey an understanding of the culture of the business and the drivers whichcontribute to the ongoing success of the Company.
Please see the non-financial information statement on page 100 which setsout where stakeholders can find information relating to non-financial matters.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 97 Governance and Directors Report Other statutory disclosures continued EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the EWC The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions and the Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards intonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which of behaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate and theGroup is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and adhere to.
The Code of Ethics, which is part of our CBC, underpins theoperation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the our social, ethical and environmental commitments and sends a yearended 30 September 2018 are set out within the Corporate clear message to our stakeholders of our commitment to responsible Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 42 and form business practice.
The 10 principles of the United Nations UN part of the Directors Report disclosures and are incorporated by Global Compact, to which we are a signatory, underpin our own reference.
Further details of the actions which the Group is taking to Code of Ethics.
This UN initiative encourages companies to make reduce emissions can also be found at www.
human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility This Annual Report is certified carbon neutral by sponsoring a cause andanti-corruption part of their business agenda.
Our to offset against the emissions arising from the production, printing annualCommunication on Progress can be viewed at and delivery of this Report.
This year, the Company has participated www.
in a project in Brazil which aims to prevent deforestation and protect one of the worlds most biodiverse habitats.
Our people are instrumental in our success: we respect and value the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE Group.
We base our relationship with our employees on respect for Charitable objectives support the Companys CR strategy and have the dignity of the individual and fair treatment for all.
In October primarily focused on improving the environment, education, health 2018, the Company published its third statement in accordance and wellbeing, community engagement and responsible business with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, details of practice.
Donations have included employee involvement through which can be found on the website at www.
As at 30 September 2018, there were 595,841 2017: 588,112 GROUP CHARITABLE DONATIONS M people employed by the Group average number of employees 2018 11.0 including directors and part-time employees of whom 337,962 2017 8.3 were female 2017: 323,462 and 257,879 were male 2017: 264,650.
728 were senior managers, 537 male, 191 female 2017: Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a 602 male, 192 female, which includes members of our global precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political leadership team and statutory directors of corporate entities whose organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms financial information is consolidated in the Groups accounts in this were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding a Annual Report.
As at 30 September 2018 there were 11 directors, monetary limit approved by shareholders.
The Board has eight of whom were male and three were female.
Prior to any consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any cash appointment to the Board, the Nomination Committee gives due contribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of those regard to diversity and gender with a view to recommending the words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
appointment of the most suitable candidate for the role.
No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time has been utilised during the year for political activities and, in We seek to create a positive, open working environment wherever accordance with the Companys CBC, employees must not engage we operate.
Our employee policies are set locally to comply with in any form of lobbying or have contact with political representatives, local law within an overall Group framework and we monitor our government employees or public interest groups unless they are employee satisfaction and engagement through a number of key doing so legitimately and adhering to internal control processes.
Further information regarding the CBC can be found on We also consider the concerns of wider communities where we page 61 of this Annual Report and on the Companys operate, including national and local interests, utilising our relevant website at www.
expertise to help contribute to the wellbeing of communities which The directors propose to renew the authority granted at the 2018 are appropriate to our business objectives.
Furthermore, the Group AGM for the Group to make political donations and incur political supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 Declaration of Human Rights UN Declaration and considers of the CA 2006 until the Companys next AGM, which they might carefully before doing any business in countries that do not adhere otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms to the UN Declaration.
of the CA 2006 and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
It is proposed to maintain the limit of such authority at 100,000.
98 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTINGRULE 9.8.
4 The Company places considerable importance on communication with its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Group There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule CEO and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor 9.8.
4 which have not already been disclosed elsewhere in this relations and a senior executive has day to day responsibility for Report.
Details of long term incentive plans can be found in the such matters.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 93 and details of reported to the Board by the Group CEO and the Group Finance dividends waived by shareholders can be found on page 94.
Director as well as by the Chairman who remains incontact with SHAREHOLDER SERVICES our largest shareholders and are discussed at itsmeetings.
Details of services provided to shareholders can be found in the There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, and Shareholder Information section on pages 190 to 192 and on the privateshareholders at the AGM.
Contact with institutional Companys website.
shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media iscontrolled by written guidelines in the Companys Corporate AGM Communications Code and Market Soundings Policy, in The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed compliancewith EU Market Abuse Regulation requirements to at the 2019 AGM, together with explanatory notes, is set out on ensure the continued protection of share price sensitive information pages 193 to 201 of this Annual Report and is also available that has notalready been made generally available to the Companys at www.
The directors consider that each shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with of the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
The primary method of communicating with shareholders isbyelectronic means, helping to make the Company more On behalf of the Board environmentally friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the production and posting of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report is available to all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website at www.
The Groups Alison Yapp annual and interim results are also published on the Companys Group General Counsel and Company Secretary website, together with all other announcements and documents issued to the market, such as statements, interviews 20 November 2018 andpresentations by the Group CEO and Group FinanceDirector.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all Compass Group PLC shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Further shareholder information is available on pages 190 to 192.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares and sterling Eurobonds are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 99 Governance and Directors Report Other statutory disclosures continued NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT The table below sets out where stakeholders can find information in our Strategic Report that relates to non-financial matters detailed under section 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
WHERE TO READ MORE IN THIS REPORT ABOUT OUR IMPACT, 1 REPORTING REQUIREMENT SOME OF OUR RELEVANT POLICIES INCLUDING THE PRINCIPAL RISKS RELATING TO THESE MATTERS PAGE Environmental Sustainability Strategy Corporate Responsibility: Our Strategy and Approach 38-43 matters Environmental Policy Statement Commitment to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 43 GHG Emissions 42 Employees Code of Business Conduct Who we create value for People 13 Workplace Health & Safety Chief Executives review People 15 PolicyStatement People Report A renewed commitment 26-27 Principal Risks Health and Safety, People 36-37 Safety culture 40, 65 Human rights Code of Business Conduct Our Standards 61 Code of Ethics Slavery and Human Trafficking 66 Modern Slavery Act Transparency Employee diversity and Human rights 98 Statement Human Rights Policy Statement Social matters Social Purpose Who we create value for Purpose 16 Chief Executives review Purpose 14-25 Our Social Purpose: a commitment to safety andsustainability 40 Anti-bribery and Code of Business Conduct Our values guide our actions and behaviours 11 corruption Code of Ethics Principal Risks Compliance and Fraud 36-37 Group Speak Up Policy Our Standards 61 Supply Chain Integrity Policy Statement Supply Chain Integrity Policy Statement 65 Business model Our Business Model 10-13 Non-financial KPIs Global Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 2, 42 Global Food Safety Incident Rate 2, 42 Greenhouse gas intensity ratio 2, 42 Sites offering healthy eating programmes 2, 42 Carbon Disclosure Project 42 Women in global leadership team 42 Principal risks Identifying and Managing Risk 35-37 1.
The Companys policies, statements and codes are available at www.
100 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
