Our business model HOW WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE and Managed Services as each part of our inspire success.
Our goal is Enabling portfolio supports the other.
Success by building long-term trust with our customers, people and partners.
We aim to More information about how we create value be strongly recommended by customers for on pages 10 to 13. the way we help them achieve their goals ensuring customer referenceability.
Where Our people we make acquisitions, we usually transition Together, we have created a can-do culture the acquired business quickly to the where people matter and are encouraged to Computacenter brand and embed our values.
Computacenter employs more than 15,000 people worldwide.
This includes more More information about our values can be than 4,200 engineers, 4,000 support staff found on page 37.
Mo Siddiqi in our Service Centers, 1,600 project and Group Development Director service managers and 800 consultants.
Our infrastructure and physical assets Between them, our teams hold over 10,000 We have operations in 20 countries and Computacenter is a trusted technology technical certifications as well as 200 source for and support customers across partner to large corporate and public sector partner accreditations in project and service 70 countries worldwide.
We help them to Source, methodologies.
These service delivery teams demand that our operations are delivered to Transform and Manage their technology are backed by the skills experience of our high industry standards and we have a range infrastructure to deliver digital sales and business services teams.
Our aim of ISO certifications including ISO 2001, ISO transformation, enabling users and is that people want to join and stay with us, 20001, ISO 14001 and ISO 27001. their business.
be proud of our reputation, as we learn, earn and have fun.
Our Service Centers on the inside front Our business model is customer-centric, cover map help us to support our end based on enabling success by building More information about how we attract, user-focused Managed Service contracts long-term trust with our customers, our retain and develop our people on pages 36 and are underpinned by a common people and our partners.
This underpins to 38. technology infrastructure to allow our value to our communities and our customers to be supported by multiple shareholders.
In doing so, we leverage our Our partners centers.
In 2019, we opened our latest long-term investment in our infrastructure We have built powerful partnerships with Service Center in Poznan, Poland.
and physical assets and place great most of the worlds leading technology confidence in the depth of skills and providers, who can rely on our reach and Our Integration Centers on the inside front knowledge of our teams.
We are among the largest partners in cover map allow us to stage, test and EMEA for each of the technology providers integrate technology for our customers.
Our Our customers and are also being recognised for our new Kerpen Integration Center is designed We deliver digital technology to some of the achievements at a global level.
We use our using our knowledge and over 30 years of worlds greatest organisations.
Our target technology understanding to build solutions experience to be amongst the leading market is the largest 500 corporate and for our customers across all parts of our facilities of its type.
Our US acquisition now government organisations in each of the portfolio.
We aim for our customers to be enables us to address the local market via eight countries in which we sell.
Our confident in our skills and solutions and our Integration Center in Newark, CA, in the operational model supports this aim through trust in our independence and experience.
having account managers, sales specialists, This means we can help our customer to consultants, project and service managers make wise choices in a complex and In addition, we have a number of underlying aligned to our customers to build strong changing world.
systems that support our business, including customer intimacy.
We give our customer our SAP ERP solution, systems that connect teams the freedom to make responsible More information about our partners and us to our customers sourcing functions, decisions that meet customer needs faster.
Technology Sourcing on pages 14 to 17. and systems that underpin our Managed The majority of our customers have been Services.
trading with us for over 10 years, showing the Our brand value of these trusted relationships and the Our brand and reputation are underpinned We also translate our experience into value of our financial stability.
We have a by our Winning Together values: we maintain intellectual property such as Inventox, balanced spread of business with most of a strong brand by putting customers first, the Computacenter rollout and process our customers, supporting them with being straightforward, keeping promises automation tool, and integrate it with vendor Technology Sourcing, as well as Professional and considering the long term, while products to create differentiated service understanding that people matter and offerings such as Windows 10 Evergreen.
18 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MODEL AT A GLANCE Making all of the elements of our business model work together.
OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS Our Our Our Our Our infrastructure customers people partners brand and physical assets OUR LEVERAGE Vendor independence Infrastructure Scale SOURCE Powerful End user partnerships focus CIO USERS BUSINESS MANAGE TRANSFORM Depth of Financial experience stability Breadth Worldwide of skills reach Our customer offer sits at the heart of our strategy.
See page 11 for more information CREATING VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS Our Our Our Our partners Our customers people communities shareholders 19
