Our strategic priorities ALIGNING OUR CUSTOMER OFFER WITH OUR MARKETPLACE Group headquarters, Hatfield, UK 20 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 HOW IT ALL FITS TOGETHER Linking our strategy to major trends, customer offer, risk, performance and remuneration.
Our four strategic Strategic objective 1: Strategic objective 2: Strategic objective 3: Strategic objective 4: objectives To lead with and grow our To improve our Services To retain and maximise the To innovate our Services Services business productivity and enhance relationship with our offerings to build future our competitiveness customers over the long growth opportunities term Major trends Major trend 1: The shift to digital Major trend 2: Hybrid IT becomes the norm Major trend 3: Security risks become a business inhibitor Major trend 4: Shortage of talent Our customer DATA & CLOUD & offer END USER NETWORKING SECURITY ANALYTICS DATA CENTER SOURCE CIO USERS BUSINESS MANAGE TRANSFORM Alignment to Strategic Strategic Strategic Strategic Contractual Operational Contractual Operational Contractual Operational Contractual Operational relevant principal Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure risks and Financial Financial Financial Financial uncertainties People People People People Measuring Services Contract Base Services revenue generated Number of customer Services revenue success With an ever increasing per Services head accounts The Services business is Why this is demand from our customers Our relentless focus on Analysing growth in the strategically relevant in important to to make digital work, we are finding the most effective number of customers two ways: Managed Services Computacenter: confident of continuing to and cost efficient method generating more than 1 are the prerequisite for grow our Services Contract of helping our customers million of profit shows that long-term customer Base in 2019. with their technology profitability increases at the relationships and retention, challenges is key to our same rate, demonstrating whereas Professional competitiveness and hence the importance of these Services give us visibility our future growth agenda.
customers to our bottom and recognition, by helping line.
the CIO to make his IT infrastructure suitable for digital services.
Linked to remuneration 21 Our strategic priorities continued Description Target for 2019 Strategic objective 1 Over the last three years, we have created a In 2019, the market will remain competitive central Group function that brings together and price sensitive, as customers look to To lead with some of our key resources, tools and reduce the cost of IT support and processes focused on bidding.
It aims to competitors continue to be squeezed in a grow our Services business beyond market low-growth environment.
It is therefore and grow rates, whilst ensuring we take a disciplined critical that Computacenter maintains high approach to contract quality.
This is crucial, levels of professionalism and quality, and our Services as the Services market is highly competitive that we price as competitively as possible, and winning bidders can suffer significantly while always keeping the long term and business financially if they price contracts too low.
The commercial viability in mind.
While this function incorporates design, architecture, requires a strong nerve, we believe our solution and sales resources, supported by competitiveness and focus on the long term enabling functions such as account-based will prove successful in the fullness of time marketing.
It has helped to share best and competitors will fall by the wayside.
practice and lessons learned, contributing to key new wins and renewals.
Why this is important to Computacenter With an ever-increasing demand from our Progress in 2018 customers to make digital work, we are Through key renewals in 2018, we maintained confident of continuing to grow our Services the annual Contract Base which grew by Contract Base in 2019.
We were particularly pleased with the number of How we define Services Contract Base major renewals.
Renewals can suppress the This is our forward order book of committed Contract Base, as customers look for price Managed Services spend as at the year end.
However, this can often be offset The prior year comparatives are restated on 2 by increasing the scope of our activities.
a constant currency basis, to provide a The acquisition in the Netherlands has added better indicator of underlying growth.
18 million of Services Contract Base, bringing the Group total to 784 million.
Services Contract Base m 766 0.8% 2018 766 2017 760 2016 749 2015 723 2014 709 22 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Description Target for 2019 Strategic objective 2 Technology encourages standardisation and Improved performance of the UK commoditisation.
Organisations such as Professional Services business should have To improve our ours must therefore differentiate the way we a positive effect on productivity, with the deliver value to customers.
We do this by measure bouncing back from the poor rigorously applying effective processes and performance in 2018.
We also expect the Services utilising the right resources, including German Professional Services business to automation and robotics, in suitable continue the progress we have made in productivity and locations.
This allows us to best meet the recent years.
needs of our global customers, at a enhance our competitive price.
2019 will be a year of significant investment in Service Desk technology, as we deploy competitiveness Progress in 2018 what we call GSD2.0 and seek to increase In 2018, we expanded our offshore service our agents productivity.
This new technology desk operations.
We successfully opened a will, amongst other things, give our agents new low-cost German language service desk a better call history when customers place location in Poland, and grew our operations service calls, as well as better access to in a number of locations, not least Mexico knowledge management and enhanced City, Montpellier and Cape Town.
While routing of calls to the appropriate skills.
these operations often expand with new customers, it is more common to see our We are extending our Managed Services customers feel comfortable with us moving capabilities by opening a new Service Center operations that we originally performed location in France, in mid-2019, to increase onshore to lower cost locations, as they gain our capacity and resilience for Service Desk confidence in our ability to deliver.
The pipeline of Services happens at contract renewal.
opportunities may require us to expand some of our locations further.
We have established a strong global automation team based in Budapest, Why this is important to Computacenter Hungary, where we look to use the latest Our relentless focus on finding the most technologies, particularly robotics, to effective and cost-efficient method of automate customer-specific processes, helping our customers with their technology increasing accuracy and reducing cost.
While challenges is key to our competitiveness and we do not believe automation is a silver hence our future growth agenda.
bullet that will immediately change the way in which we deliver services, it will change How we define Services revenue generated the way we operate over time and as such it per Services head is critical that Computacenter continues to This is our Group Services revenue divided by innovate and understand what is available.
the number of employees directly involved in Services revenue generated the provision of either our Managed Services per Services head 000 In the Professional Services area, we saw or Professional Services offerings.
The prior good growth in Germany and high utilisation, year comparatives are restated on a constant 2 which has enhanced productivity.
However, currency basis, to provide a better indicator rework required on some UK projects has of underlying growth.
This measure excludes 89 dampened productivity and played a the impact of acquisitions made in 2018. significant part in the small reduction in -1.1% the productivity measure seen this year.
2018 89 2017 90 2016 89 2015 93 2014 92 23 Our strategic priorities continued Description Target for 2019 Strategic objective 3 Computacenter focuses on the large account We expect to see an increase in the number market in both the public and private sectors, of major customers in 2019.
We are To retain and and looks to maintain these customers for particularly encouraged by the substantial the long term.
The number of large growth in the number of customers customers we have has a direct relationship generating between 500,000 and 1 million maximise the to our long-term profitability.
Growing the of gross profit during 2018, which bodes well number of customers who contribute more for the future.
It is also critical that we relationship with than 1 million of margin is therefore a key secure the major accounts from the driver of Computacenters profits.
acquired businesses for the long term, as our customers this is where we will maintain the value of the Progress in 2018 acquisitions.
We believe that the enhanced over the long term In 2018, the number of Group customers who geographical footprint, particularly in the generated more than 1 million per year of USA, will also enable us to achieve revenue gross profit, measured in constant synergies, expanding the number of major 2 currency, decreased from 107 to 104, customers.
excluding the acquired entities in the USA and the Netherlands.
Both Germany and France Why this is important to Computacenter increased the number of major customers, Analysing growth in the number of while the UK saw a reduction.
The reduction customers generating more than 1 million in major UK customers was due to buying of profit shows that profitability increases cycles and will bounce back in 2019.
The two at the same rate, demonstrating the acquisitions added 14 new customers that importance of these customers to our each generated more than 1 million of gross bottom line.
profit, bringing the Group total to 118.
The number of customers that generate more How we define customer accounts with than 5 million of gross profit for the Group contributions of over 1 million has doubled in the last three years, as many A customer account is the consolidated of our large customers trust Computacenter spend by a customer and all of its to deliver larger-scale projects and a more subsidiaries.
Where our customer account significant percentage of their IT operations.
exceeds 1 million of contribution to Group 1 adjusted gross profit, it is included within this measure.
The prior year comparatives 2 are restated on a constant currency basis, to provide a better indicator of underlying growth.
Number of customer accounts with contributions of over 1 million 104 -2.8% 2018 104 2017 107 2016 103 2015 95 2014 90 24 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Description The two acquisitions have added 16 million Strategic objective 4 Annual Services revenue, which comprises of Services revenue in 2018 which, whilst our Managed Services and Professional included in the results of the Group, have To innovate Services businesses, is the key measure for been excluded from this measure.
The Group this strategic objective.
Our portfolio and Services revenues including acquisitions is services development activities are focused 1,175 million and 1.1 per cent higher than the our Services 2 on improving our differentiation and building previous year in constant currency.
competitive advantage, thus laying the offerings to build foundation for future Services growth.
Target for 2019 From a Professional Services point of view, future growth Progress in 2018 we should see steady progress again in In 2018, total Services revenue across the Germany, as we have done for the last few 2 opportunities Group, in constant currency and before years.
The UK should show growth, given it acquisitions, remained broadly flat.
However, has a less challenging comparative than in there were some significant ups and downs 2018.
The Managed Services marketplace is in the different parts of the business.
However, the pipeline for new Germany, we saw solid progress from our business across our geographies is Professional Services business, which grew somewhat more encouraging.
Given the size and scale of the some significant renewals that will not have business and the challenge of hiring talent, a substantial effect on our 2019 revenues which is particularly difficult in the German but will need to be secured in order to market, this is probably approaching the maintain progress in 2020.
During 2019, we maximum growth we can achieve in a expect to gradually introduce our Services calendar year.
Our Managed Services capability to the acquired entities in the business in Germany has not been as Netherlands and the USA.
We have, without doubt, had some operational challenges and while these Why this is important to Computacenter are predominantly behind us, they have The Services business is strategically reduced our appetite for growth in this relevant in two ways: Managed Services are challenging part of the market.
In the UK, the prerequisite for long-term customer Professional Services revenue looked weak relationships and retention, whereas relative to 2017.
However, this was Professional Services give us visibility and predominantly due to a large and very recognition, by helping the CIO to make his IT successful contract that we completed infrastructure suitable for digital services.
in 2017 with a UK central Government department, which counted for more than How we define Services revenue 25 per cent of our entire Professional Services revenue is the combined revenue Services business in 2017.
Excluding this, of our Professional Services and Managed 2018 was a year of progress.
In UK Managed Services business.
The prior year Services revenue m Services, the year turned out better than we comparatives are restated on a constant 2 had predicted although much remains to be currency basis, to provide a better indicator done.
We achieved a high rate of renewals of underlying growth.
and added some new contracts.
In France, 1,159 revenue declined due to the loss of a contract towards the end of 2017.
