Our marketplace Accelerating business STAYING ABREAST OF CHANGES IN THE GLOBAL MARKET Our customers need to respond faster and more effectively to business change.
To stay competitive, they have to innovate and enrich the digital experiences of their users and customers.
We need to act with pace and confidence to help our customers make the most of their existing technology and select new investments that support their digital agenda in an increasingly complex and fast-changing environment.
This section looks at the major trends that are changing our markets, considers our competitive environment and explains the dynamics of the key countries we operate in.
In this section The global market The competitive market Our regional markets Andreas Trk Business Lines Enterprise Director 06 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 THE GLOBAL MARKET Four major trends are shaping our markets worldwide.
cloud technology in some form or another What this means for Computacenter Major trend 1: and organisations have embraced the initial Our strong security practice, with more than benefits of increased transparency on 150 security consultants, represents a The shift to digital pricing and improved time to market for IT competitive advantage and differentiates us services.
Maturing cloud adopters are now from some of our competitors.
We help our seeking a balanced environment, with customers to implement a holistic security Description traditional data centers closely integrated concept, allowing them to stay ahead of The requirement to connect the business with private and public clouds.
Depending criminal threats and remain compliant with directly to IT and for IT to understand how on regulatory requirements and data regulatory requirements.
its services directly influence market share compliance, customers can then select the and profits continues to drive new ways of most suitable source for their specific Example working, service delivery and productivity.
G artner expects a CAGR of 13 per cent in This adoption of new methods such as Agile, cloud security services from 2017 to 2022.
Design Thinking, DevOps and technologies What this means for Computacenter Gartner, Public Cloud Services End-User where service is primarily provided with or Hybrid IT represents a huge market Spending, Q4 2018 through software and augmented with opportunity for Computacenter, both for analytics and artificial intelligence AI, is our Technology Sourcing and our increasing complexity for organisations.
Professional Services and Managed Services The pace of change is also rising with, for businesses.
Customers seek our support to Major trend 4: example, the proliferation of devices and Source, Transform and Manage their Hybrid IT apps which have ever-shorter lifecycles.
While we are investing in some Shortage of talent Added to this, almost every digital innovation new capabilities, our customers, including raises security and privacy risks that need some hyperscalers, are already leveraging to be tackled at the same time.
our existing investments and ability to Description integrate and deploy technology at scale The critical importance of digital technology What this means for Computacenter and globally.
to modern businesses means that demand Being vendor independent remains a key for appropriately qualified people outstrips strength for us, due to our ability to assess Example supply.
This makes it more difficult for our our customers business requirements and A ccording to Gartner, by 2020, 75 per cent customers to manage their IT services help them to select the appropriate solution of organizations will have deployed a in-house, encouraging them to turn to and service model, in an increasingly multicloud or hybrid cloud model for their providers such as us for support.
At the same time, we IT needs.
Gartner, September 2018 need to keep up with the pace of innovation, What this means for Computacenter so that our offering remains relevant to The shortage of people also emphasises the our customers.
importance to Computacenter of having the Major trend 3: right culture and values, combined with an Example attractive workplace and exciting work for I DC recently updated its forecasting of Security risks become our customers, which help us to attract and worldwide digital transformation spend, retain talent.
predicting that it will reach $1.97 trillion a business inhibitor in 2022.
IDC, November 2018 Example 4 0 per cent of employers globally report that Description they are experiencing difficulty filling jobs.
The accelerated adoption of new and Manpower Groups 11th annual Talent Major trend 2: sometimes immature technologies Shortage Survey increases the risk of security and privacy Hybrid IT becomes breaches.
Additionally, our customers have See pages 36 to 38 for more on how we to react to regulatory requirements and manage and develop our people.
the norm security legislation, such as the European General Data Protection Regulation.
To protect themselves from financial and Description reputational losses and to meet compliance Cloud services are the forefront of the IT requirements, customers often implement markets transformation, with the cloud rigid and fragmented security concepts that quickly becoming a mainstay for many inhibit innovation and fast reactions to businesses.
Most of our customers are using market changes.
07 Our marketplace continued THE COMPETITIVE MARKET In addition to the major trends, a number of factors are influencing the way we compete in our markets.
Computacenters response to these Market segments Save to innovate Substitutes major trends: With IT budgets staying flat or growing very Organisations that had previously bought Computacenter has a history of adapting slowly, IT decision makers need to save costs their own networking and data center as the needs of our customers and the in order to fund new digital initiatives.
infrastructure are now able to substitute market develop.
Procurement departments are typically them for cloud-based services.
This could seeking to reduce costs in traditional affect demand for our sourcing business 19801995 hardware-related services.
Our responses over the coming years.
However, this Technology Sourcing led to this trend are investments in analytics, complexity is also a positive for us, in our 3-4 year lifecycle automation and the right balance of onshore, role as a value-added provider.
It creates Configuration nearshore and offshore delivery capabilities.
opportunities for us to provide consulting Hardware resale At the same time, we help CIOs to select, and support transformational projects, Rollout services implement and manage technology as customers require our help to migrate Maintenance platforms such as hybrid clouds, big data applications and workloads to the cloud.
Break fix service level agreements and the Internet of Things, to become the Transforming their IT also drives our Onsite services foundation for new digital business models.
In Our ability to select the right solutions from addition, many hyperscale cloud providers 19952014 a wide range of options, paired with our themselves are among our customers.
Managed Services led Security and Networking skills, put us in a 3-5 year contracts good position to exploit these increasing Partner ecosystems Extensive bidding digital business markets.
With shifting buying centres and the trend Landing a large and multi-year Managed to cloud computing and Hybrid IT, customers Workplace Service Shifting buying centres are looking for solutions addressing their Pull-through of Technology Sourcing The traditional buying centres in our industry business needs and covering all aspects Pull-through of Professional Services are our customers IT and procurement from infrastructure to applications, as well Cross-sell to other Managed Services departments.
However, customers are now as business adoption.
As a response, service shifting to include decision makers providers will have to start building 2014 representing their core business units.
In ecosystems of partners with good Professional Services led addition, they are introducing new roles such knowledge of future application Hybrid IT, plug-and-play as the Chief Digital Officer, to bridge the gap architectures and methodologies such as Users: user experience, productivity, between traditional technology sourcing and Agile or Design Thinking, as well as partners consumerisation new models which have business benefits with vertical specific expertise.
This is an CIO: cost pressure still, as-a-service at their core, such as driving competitive advantage for Computacenter, as we already demand, security advantage.
While this shift is real and we are have powerful partnerships with the worlds Business: analytics and AI for competitive adapting with new value propositions, we leading technology providers and mature advantage believe it is happening slowly and our core processes to adopt partner technologies and Cloud-players take business and margins services will continue to provide ongoing take them to market.
We will also continue to differentiation and genuine value for our integrate services partners into services to Since 2015, Computacenter has become an customers.
We assess the business requirements of our customers and help them to select the appropriate services and solutions modules from our portfolio, to solve their specific challenges.
08 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 OUR REGIONAL MARKETS We go where our clients operate.
United Kingdom and Ireland Rest of Europe Switzerland, Belgium Economic growth in the UK and Ireland stays and the Netherlands relatively robust despite the ongoing process of the Economic growth is still stable in our Rest UK leaving the European Union.
The IT infrastructure of Europe countries, with markets in the services market is growing at a moderate rate and Netherlands being most fragile.
With is expected to stay stable.
CIOs are continuously Belgiums production deeply embedded in looking to fund digital initiatives through savings global value chains and the financial sector in non-strategic operational areas and are also in Switzerland remaining key for both the moving towards cloud services, with the help of market and Computacenter, overall external providers.
There are growth opportunities forecasts are positive for these markets.
in the financial services, retail and public sectors, and in large-scale transformation programmes.
France Germany The worlds fifth largest economy representing 2018 has been a strong year for the German economy 20 per cent of the Euro-area GDP, continues to be an despite a second half below expectations and the important geography for Computacenter with a automotive sector with decreasing registrations significant number of industrial and public sector year on year in the last quarter.
Political turbulence in the fourth quarter between the US and China do have an impact on the of 2018 has affected the economic growth outlook.
growth forecast for 2019 but expectations are still However, the forecast for 2019 stays positive with positive and indicate an ongoing economic growth solid growth and we expect ongoing investment by with increasing investments in the public sector both manufacturing and government organisations.
as well as large initiatives to support digital transformation such as Industrie 4.0 and the Digital Pact Digitalisierungspakt to improve IT in the education sector.
USA After 2018s high growth, supported by the tax-cut stimulus in 2017, the US economy is expected to cool down in 2019.
The current trade dispute with China does affect investments by our customers.
However, the US tech industry including Computacenter partners such as Microsoft, Amazon and Cisco still expect a solid year with significant growth rates in many areas.
