Directors Report Computacenter plc is incorporated as a Management Report Directors and Directors authority public limited company and is registered in This Directors Report, together with the The Directors who served during the year England and Wales with the registered other reports, forms the Management Report ended 31 December 2018 were Tony Conophy, number 3110569.
Computacenter plcs for the purposes of Disclosure and Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Mike Norris, Peter registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, Transparency Rule 4.1.
Ogden, Minnow Powell, Ros Rivaz, Peter Ryan, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW.
The Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea.
Philip Yea Companys registrar is Equiniti Limited, which Results and dividends resigned from the Board with effect from is situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, The Groups activities resulted in a profit 24 April 2018.
before tax of 108.1 million 2017: 111.7 million.
The Group profit for the year, Biographical details of each Director, as at The Directors present the Directors Report, attributable to shareholders, amounted to 31 December 2018, are given on pages 70 and together with the audited accounts of 80.9 million 2017: 81.3 million.
The Companys Articles of Association Computacenter plc and its subsidiary require that at each AGM, those Directors who companies the Group for the year ended The Directors recommend a final dividend of were appointed since the last AGM retire, as 31 December 2018.
21.6 pence per share 2017: 18.7 pence per well as one-third of the Directors who have share totalling 24.7 million 2017: 21.1 been the longest serving.
The Board has The pages from the inside front cover to million.
The dividend record date is set on decided, in accordance with the Code, that all 108 of this Annual Report and Accounts are Friday 31 May 2019, and the shares will be Directors will retire at each forthcoming AGM incorporated by reference into the Directors marked ex-dividend on Thursday 30 May and offer themselves for re-election.
The Report, which has been drawn up and 2019.
This is in line with the normal dividend Nomination Committee has considered each presented in accordance with English procedure timetable as set by the London Director who is standing for re-election and company law, and the liabilities of the Stock Exchange.
Further Directors in connection with that report shall details on the Committees be subject to the limitations and restrictions Following the payment of an interim dividend recommendations for the re-election of the provided by such law.
for 2018 of 8.7 pence per share on 12 October Directors are set out in the Notice of AGM, 2018, the total dividend per share for 2018 which summarises the skills and experience Strategic Report will be 30.3 pence per share.
The Board has that the Directors bring to the Board.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group consistently applied the Companys Dividend to prepare a Strategic Report, which Policy, which states that the total dividend Subject to applicable law and the Companys commences at the start of this Annual paid will result in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 Articles of Association, the Directors may Report and Accounts up to page 66.
Further detail on the Companys exercise all of the powers of the Company.
Strategic Report includes information about Dividend Policy can be found within the Group The Companys Articles of Association the Groups operations and business model, Finance Directors review on page 61. provide for a Board of Directors consisting of particulars of all important events affecting not fewer than three, but not more than 20 the Company or its subsidiaries, the Groups Dividends are recognised in the accounts in Directors, who manage the business and financial performance in the year and likely the year in which they are paid, or in the case affairs of the Company.
The Directors may future developments, key performance of a final dividend, when approved by the appoint additional or replacement Directors, indicators, principal risks and information shareholders.
As such, the amount who shall serve until the following AGM of the regarding the Groups sustainable recognised in the 2018 Annual Report and Company, at which point they will be required development plan.
Accounts, as described in note 12, is made up to stand for election by the members.
A of the 2017 final dividend 18.7 pence per Director may be removed from office by the Corporate governance share and the 2018 interim dividend 8.7 Company as provided for by applicable law, Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, pence per share.
in certain circumstances set out in the the Company is required to include a Companys Articles of Association, and at Corporate Governance Report within the Articles of Association a General Meeting of the Company, by the Directors Report.
The Companys Articles of Association set out passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided the procedures for governing the Company.
special notice has been given in accordance Information on our corporate governance A copy of the Articles of Association, which with the Companies Act 2006. practices can be found in the Corporate were not amended during the reporting Governance Report on pages 67 to 101, and period, is available on the Companys website the reports of the Nomination, Audit and at investors.
The Remuneration Committees on pages 74, Companys Articles of Association may only 78 and 84 respectively, all of which are be amended by a special resolution at a incorporated into the Directors Report general meeting of the shareholders.
Company intends to present amended Articles of Association for approval by special resolution at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2019.
102 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Members have previously approved a standard authorities will expire on 30 June Directors conflicts of interest resolution to give the Directors authority to 2019, or at the conclusion of the Companys The Board has put in place a process allot shares, and a renewal of this authority 2019 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The whereby the Directors are required to notify is proposed at the 2019 AGM.
This authority Directors will seek to renew each of the the Company Secretary of any situations allows the Directors to allot shares up to the authorities at the 2019 AGM, and full details appointments, holdings or otherwise, or maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM are provided in the Notice of AGM.
As at any changes to such, which may give rise to approximately one-third of the issued share 28 February 2019, none of these authorities an actual or potential conflict of interest with capital.
In addition, the Company may not approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM the Company.
These notifications are then allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an had been exercised.
reviewed by the Board and recorded in a employee share scheme without first register maintained by the Company making an offer to existing shareholders in Directors indemnities Secretary.
If appropriate, they are then proportion to their existing holdings.
This is The Company has executed deeds of considered further by the Directors who are known as rights of pre-emption.
Two indemnity with each of the Directors.
These not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed resolutions allowing a limited waiver of these deeds contain qualifying third-party appropriate authorise the situation.
The rights were passed by the members at the indemnity provisions, indemnifying the register of notifications and authorisations 2018 AGM.
Additionally, at the 2018 AGM, Directors to the extent permitted by law, is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where members also approved a resolution giving and remain in force at the date of this report.
the Board has approved an actual or delegated authority allowing the Company to The indemnities are uncapped and cover all potential conflict, it has imposed the make market purchases of its own shares, costs, charges, losses and liabilities the condition that the conflicted Director up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the Directors may incur to third parties, in the abstains from participating in any discussion Companys issued share capital, subject to course of acting as Directors of the Company or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
certain conditions including price of or its subsidiaries.
Each of these Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company, at the start and end of the reporting period, were as follows: As at 1 January 2018 As at 31 December 2018 or date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,132,819 1,208,088 Tony Conophy 1,851,961 1,871,668 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 700,000 100,000 600,000 120,000 Philip Hulme 9,621,695 9,757,381 10,567,582 10,377,815 Peter Ogden 18,699,389 8,103,356 20,119,473 8,718,748 Minnow Powell 1,340 1,340 Ros Rivaz 1,382 1,382 Peter Ryan 900 Regine Stachelhaus Philip Yea 8,000 Note Philip Yea stepped down from the Board on 24 April 2018 and had 8,000 ordinary shares at this time.
Major interests in shares In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018 the Company was notified by the following shareholders of updates to the disclosable interests that they held in the voting rights of its issued share capital: Percentage of total Name of major shareholder voting rights held JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 5.04 Artemis Investment Management LLP 4.99 Subsequent to this initial notification, the Company was notified that JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited had reduced its holding below the minimum threshold of three per cent.
No further interests have been disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2018 and 28 February 2019.
An updated list of the Companys major shareholders is available at investors.
103 Directors Report continued Capital structure and rights attaching Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, The Company does not have any agreements to shares there are two employee benefit trusts which, with any Director or employee that would As at 28 February 2019, there were as at the year end, held a total of 1,747,426 provide compensation for loss of office or 5 122,687,970 fully paid ordinary shares in ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each, employment resulting from a change of issue, of which the Company held 8,546,861 representing approximately 1.42 per cent of control on takeover, except that provisions ordinary shares in treasury.
The total number the issued share capital and 1.53 per cent of of the Companys share schemes and plans of voting rights in the Company which may be the voting rights.
During the year, the trusts may cause options and awards granted to used by shareholders as the denominator for purchased a total of 1,158,060 shares in employees under share schemes and plans the calculations by which they can determine order to ensure that the maturities occurring to vest on a takeover.
if they are required to notify their interest in, pursuant to these share schemes could be or a change to their interest in the Company, satisfied.
When shares are held by these Financial instruments under the Disclosure and Transparency trusts before being transferred to employee The Groups financial risk management Rules, is 114,141,109.
The percentage of voting participants then, in line with good practice, objectives and policies are discussed in the rights attributable to those shares it holds the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights Group Finance Directors review on pages in treasury following the share buy-back attaching to such shares.
The Trustees also 63 to 64. completed in February 2018 is 6.97 per cent.
have a dividend waiver in place in respect of There are no specific restrictions on the shares which are the beneficial property of Employee share schemes transfer of securities in the Company, which each of the trusts.
During the 2018 financial The Company operates executive share is governed by its Articles of Association and year, no ordinary shares in the Company option schemes and a performance-related prevailing legislation.
were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise option scheme for the benefit of employees.
of options exercised under the Companys During the year, no options were granted The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, share schemes.
under the executive share option schemes.
subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, to: If another entity or individual takes control of At the year end, the options remaining have shareholder documents made the Company, the employee share schemes outstanding under these schemes were in available to them, including notice of any operated by the Company have change of respect of a total of nil ordinary shares of 5 general meetings of the Company: and control provisions that would be triggered.
to attend, speak and exercise voting Participants may, in certain circumstances, rights at general meetings of the be allowed to exchange their existing options The Company also operates a Performance Company, either in person or by proxy.
for options of an equivalent value over Share Plan PSP to incentivise employees.
shares in the acquiring company.
During the year, 501,643 ordinary shares of 5 The Company is not aware of any Alternatively, the options may vest early.
7 9 pence each were conditionally awarded arrangements between shareholders which Early vesting under the executive schemes 2017: 783,750 shares.
At the year end, awards may result in restrictions on the transfer of will generally be on a time-apportioned basis over 1,810,126 shares remained outstanding securities or other voting rights.
and under the Sharesave scheme, employees under this scheme 2017: 1,993,785 shares.
will only be able to exercise their options to During the year, awards over 469,256 shares As at 1 January 2018, there were 292,944,196 the extent that their accumulated savings were transferred to participants and awards deferred shares in issue which carried no allow at that time.
During the period, no over 216,046 shares lapsed.
In addition, the voting rights.
Of these, 228,443,966 deferred ordinary shares were purchased for Company operates a Sharesave scheme for shares, being all of the outstanding deferred cancellation.
Further detail on the results of the benefit of employees.
As at the year end, shares held by deferred shareholders in the Tender Offer completed in February 2018 4,209,927 options granted under the connection with the return of value in 2013 can be found in the Group Finance Directors Sharesave scheme remained outstanding and the return of value in 2015, were review on page 64.
2017: 4,307,465. transferred to the Company for nil consideration and cancelled on 13 December Significant agreements and relationships On 21 March 2018, in accordance with the 2018.
The Company also cancelled Details regarding the status of the Groups rules of the Computacenter 2017 Deferred 64,500,230 deferred shares that were held in various borrowing facilities are provided in Bonus Plan, the Company granted 38,681 treasury by the Company on 13 December the Group Finance Directors review on pages conditional awards over ordinary shares of 5 2018.
As at 28 February 2019, there were no 60 to 64.
These agreements each include a 7 9 pence each.
change of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn or The rights attaching to each of the amended upon a change of control of the Companys ordinary shares and deferred Company.
It is also not extraordinary within shares are set out in its Articles of our business sector for our longer-term Association.
Services contracts to contain change of control clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
104 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Corporate sustainable development and Employee involvement and development The Group operates a Save As You Earn SAYE political donations The Group is committed to involving all share scheme, which is open to eligible The Board recognises that acting in a socially employees in significant business issues, employees, where employees are responsible way benefits the community, our especially matters which affect their work encouraged to save a fixed monthly sum for customers, shareholders, the environment and working environment.
A variety of a period of either three and or five years.
Further information methods are used to engage with employees, Upon maturity of the scheme, participants can be found in the report on pages 36 to 39 including team briefings, intranet, email and can purchase shares in the Company at a and covers matters regarding health and in-house publications.
The Group uses one or price set at the start of the savings period.
safety, equal opportunities, employee more of these channels to brief employees involvement and employee development.
on the Groups performance and the financial Business ethics During the year, the Group did not make any and economic factors affecting the Groups A Group Ethics policy is in place, which political donations to any political party or performance.
The primary method used to commits employees to the highest standards organisation and it did not incur any political engage and consult with employees is of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, expenditure within the meaning of Sections through team briefings, where managers suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006. are tasked with ensuring that information in the business.
The policy includes a sharing, discussion and feedback happen requirement for all employees to report Equal opportunities on a regular basis.
abuses or non-conformance with the policy The Group acknowledges the importance and sets out the procedures to be followed.
of equality and diversity and is committed Employee consultative forums exist in each to equal opportunities throughout the Group country, to consult staff on major Going concern workplace.
The Groups policies for issues affecting employment and matters of The Directors statement regarding adoption recruitment, training, career development policy, and to enable Management to seek the of the going concern basis of accounting in and promotion of employees, are based views and opinions of employees on a wide preparation of the annual Consolidated purely on the suitability of the employee range of business matters.
Should there be Financial Statements is set out within the and give those who may be disabled equal cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a Strategic Report on page 65. treatment to their able bodied colleagues.
facility exists to engage a European forum Where an employee becomes disabled made up of representatives from each Long-term Viability Statement subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts country forum.
The Senior Independent The Directors statement regarding the are made to enable that employee to Director attends at least one meeting per long-term viability of the Company is set out continue in their current job.
However, if, year of this European forum to directly within the Strategic Report on page 66. due to the specific circumstances, it is not engage with employee representatives and possible for an employee to continue in their subsequently report a summary of this current job, they will be given suitable engagement back to the Board.
training for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group regularly reviews the performance of its employees through a formal review The Group monitors and regularly reviews its process, to identify areas for development.
policies and practices to ensure that it meets Managers are responsible for setting and current legislative requirements, as well as reviewing personal objectives, aligned to its own internal standards.
The Group is corporate and functional goals.
The Board committed to making full use of the talents closely oversees and monitors Management and resources of all its employees and to skills and the development of talent to meet provide a healthy environment that the current and future needs of the Group.
encourages productive and mutually The Board directly monitors and closely respectful working relationships within the reviews succession and plans for developing organisation.
Policies dealing with equal identified key senior managers.
opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take account of the Groups The development of employee skills and overall commitment and also address local careers, as well as the communication of the regulatory requirements.
Groups goals, are driven by our Winning Together processes and tools.
Annual assessments via our Winning Together processes and tools are a formal requirement of all managers.
105 Directors Report continued Greenhouse gas emissions The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group activities.
Details of this can be found below.
Further details of our environmental policies and programmes can be found on our corporate website investors.
Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology Recent UK-based emission reduction projects We have used the main requirements of the Continued investments in new technology helping Global GHG emissions data for period: 1 January to 31 December 2018.
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and reduce emissions in Data Centers.
The electricity Reporting Standard revised edition.
used in the Data Centers is circa 53 per cent of the Emissions metric tonnes of CO total for the UK.
These Data Centers host customers e 2 Emission factors used are from the UK Information Technology in the form of servers thus Year 2018 2017 Governments Conversion Factors supplied reducing their carbon footprint however, this Scope 1 3,072 3,352 by Defra.
increases the emissions for Computacenter as we become the landlord.
Scope 2 16,669 19,310 Based on external consultants Excel Total 19,741 22,662 spreadsheets were further developed Computacenter Data Centers continually adopt best internally to include the full requirements practices in this field and are signed up to the Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and to collate the additional emissions such as European Code of Conduct for Data Centers.
projects delivered a 10 per cent kWh reduction in Data Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Centre energy consumption.
We have more exciting purchased for own use This activity has been conducted as part of projects planned for 2019.
The UK warehouse, our UK Environment Management System Nottingham office refurbishment and relocation of Groups chosen intensity measurements: which transitioned from the ISO 14001:2004 the Milton Keynes office continued to have more Emissions as reported above are 4.53 metric to ISO 14001:2015 standard EMS 71255 lighting replaced with energy efficient LED devices.
tonnes per m value of Group revenue: 2017: during 2018.
Environmental awareness training has been rolled Group properties included in this report are all out to UK employees with the aim of making everyone Emissions as reported above 1.30 metric current locations in the UK, Germany, France, aware of energy waste and the potential savings that tonnes per Group employee 2017: 1.54, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, USA, Switzerland, could be made in the future.
Malaysia, China, Mexico and Hungary.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Six Five Four Limitations to data collection Five Four Three Less than 5 per cent of emissions were estimaFour ted or based on an average energy Three Two usage per square foot of space occupied.
Three Two One Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme registered as a participant.
Two One CRC8804716 Packaging Waste Regulation Via the c One ompliance company Paperpak, the UK are registered as a distributor of product ensuring full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
EMS 71255 Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS Computacenter complied with this new law by submitting our energy report which covers the period Workplace 36% 5 December 2015 to 4 December 2019.
Computacenter will be submitting its ESOS report for phase 2 during 2019.
Datacenter and Networking 12% So ware 9% Resold Services 7% Emissions 22,662 metric tonnes of CO e Revenue by business type 2 Management Services 33% 6 1 1 5 1 UK 43.57% 1 Data Center 53% 4 Three Two Six Five Four 2 Germany 41.99% 2 Facilities 47% 3 Five Two Four One Three 3 South Africa 6.91% 4 France 2.34% One Four Three Two 5 Belgium 1.65% 6 Thre Oth eers: Two One Workplace 23% Spain 1.09% Two One Malaysia 0.94% Datacenter and Networking 19% Switzerland 0.75% One 2 2 Hungary 0.54% So ware 24% USA 0.22% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% Workplace 36% 106 Datacenter and Networking 12% So ware 9% Resold Services 7% Management Services 33% Three Two Two One One Workplace 23% Datacenter and Networking 19% So ware 24% Resold Services 6% Professional Services 7% Management Services 21% GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Auditor A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of the Group was approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys 2018 AGM.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of the Group will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming 2019 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditor In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Listing rule LR disclosures For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R is set out below along with cross references indicating where the relevant information is otherwise set out in the Annual Report and Accounts or can be found in the following locations: Interest capitalised N A Publication of unaudited financial information N A Details of performance share plans Details of the Companys performance share plan scheme can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 87.
Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major N A subsidiary undertakings Contracts of significance Details of significant contracts are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 61 to 64.
Details of transactions with related parties are set out on page 163 in note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A Shareholder waiver of dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Shareholder waiver of future dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Agreements with controlling shareholder Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules now require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement a Relationship Agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence related provisions.
The Company confirms that it has undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review whether it has any controlling shareholders.
Following this process, it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders.
The Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2018, but will keep the matter under review.
MJ Norris FA Conophy Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 11 March 2019 11 March 2019 107
