Our competitive markets THE IMPORTANCE OF TECHNOLOGY SOURCING IN MAKING DIGITAL WORK Fundamental drivers in the market are underpinning growth in our Technology Sourcing business across all our operating countries.
The drive to digitise their businesses is forcing our customers to invest more in technology.
Specifically, they are looking to: Modernise their workplaces to enable users through better technology that attracts and retains talent, makes them more collaborative and drives closer customer proximity Digital Me Transform their legacy applications, data centers and processes and adopt cloud technology, to be more scalable, flexible and agile Digital Power Ensure that their networks and communications can support their digitisation and future operational models and that everything is secure Digital Trust Our ability to support customers across the entire hardware and software lifecycle and to act as a partner who can deliver at scale, increasingly globally, is allowing us to increase market share.
Kevin James Group Chief Commercial Officer Integration Center, Hatfield, UK 14 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 We have invested for the long term and this Customers are also entering the next phase Technology Sourcing is a service has increased our geographical coverage, of digital connectivity.
Artificial Intelligence, We integrate and deploy across End User, through the acquisitions of Misco Solutions big data analytics, Internet of Things and Data Centers, Networking and Security.
Our B. V. in the Netherlands and FusionStorm in cloud technology automation are moving investment in Integration Centers in the UK, the USA.
This increased coverage more rapidly than ever before.
These trends Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands strengthens our ability to execute at scale are also driving upgrades to network and and USA gives us the scale to meet even the and to meet our customers requirements security that are among our core areas of most demanding customer requirements.
Modern secure wireless networks, software-defined networking solutions and Multi-vendor integration into customerOur investment in Integration Centers, a complete holistic security proposition are specific solutions allows us to plan, create, Professional Services skills, powerful significant growth areas.
execute and deliver outcomes that meet partnerships with our vendors and full customers exact demands.
lifecycle services allows us to execute with A leading financial services organisation precision and accuracy, in often complex required a campus-based network For example, we transformed the new supply chains.
Our experience and transformation to underpin a cultural shift to starter process for a leading financial investments in innovation allow us to take remote and non-desk-based working, based services company.
This allowed the customer solutions to our customers that transform on deployment of new mobile devices.
The to offer technology choice at the recruitment their thinking and ability to deliver legacy user connectivity environment was stage and delivered a comprehensive Digital transformation.
complex, unreliable and operationally Me enabled user experience when they inefficient.
Devices, phone, applications and Making it work for customers a software-defined network, leveraging user enablement were all packaged and A hyperscale cloud provider fitted out new advanced user authentication and delivered in a controlled process.
data centers across Europe, to meet its huge automation to move the organisation to customer demand and to comply with the a wire free environment, simplifying the For a leading cloud provider, we integrated new General Data Protection Regulation network and transforming the secure over 27 different vendor technologies in GDPR requirements during the year.
racks, to deploy to its European data centers.
The lead time to install data center racks was over 80 days, putting strain on the In Germany, we installed a proactive New Kerpen Integration Center procurement and IT operations teams.
anti-virus solution for part of the Federal We are delighted to have successfully Our ability to innovate and execute at Government to better protect more than migrated to our new Integration Center in scale, drawing on our expertise, facilities, 60,000 users.
This has eliminated the risks Kerpen, Cologne in 2018.
It will be formally relationships and skills, enabled us to reduce they faced from receiving several thousand opened in April 2019 and provides us with the lead time to under 10 days.
This allowed infected emails every day, making them considerably more capacity to meet the the customers teams to meet demand more secure and productive.
We delivered growth needs of our European businesses faster and to focus on future capacity a proof of concept, rollout and a complete and provide enhanced services to our planning, to support its dramatic growth.
security Managed Service to secure the customers.
For another customer, we deployed many The new facility, comprising our German 2 components of our Digital Me workplace The rapid move to software-driven cloud headquarters office building and a 29,600m proposition to undertake a complete global solutions is proving complex for many Integration Center, provides a considerable refresh for 55,000 devices.
Our software lifecycle upgrade in capability and capacity from our Windows 10 transformation programme and management services have helped existing facility.
our innovative Evergreen support service, customers facing the challenges of new and which ensured the customer had the latest increasingly complex licensing contracts.
Microsoft technology deployed, so it was For a major global bank, we provided more agile and secure.
Corporate demand licensing, consultancy and strategy advice, for Windows 10 transformation is likely to be which enabled them to have an informed a significant driver over the next year, with position ahead of a major renewal.
This the end of support for Windows 7 and included benchmarking and dedicated demand for modern devices that fit a users resources to help the customer reduce working digital persona.
complexity and significantly cut the cost of their new contract.
15 Our competitive markets continued Powerful partnerships MULTI-VENDOR INTEGRATION FOR CUSTOMER NEEDS Computacenter is one of the largest partners worldwide for most of the major technology vendors.
We invest heavily in working closely with our partners, to ensure we can effectively help our customers to Source, Transform and Manage their IT infrastructure.
The breadth and depth of our vendor partnerships allows us to help our customers navigate the complexity and speed of change in the current market.
Our expertise in our partners solutions is unrivalled, with our people holding more than Data Center and Network deployment Volume configuration 10,000 certifications.
Our strong working relationships, our desire to collaborate and seek innovation and new services helps us remain relevant, so we are increasingly seen as the partner of choice.
We are not just working with our established partners, there is increasing demand for new vendors and innovative approaches, which are often integrated with core vendor technology to provide complete solutions.
The FusionStorm acquisition in Total solution configuration e. g. store in a box Volume deployment the USA has already widened our partner network and introduced us to some innovative solutions, which we look forward to extending across the Group.
Our ability to design, source, integrate, deploy and support means we can add material value in delivering new digital solutions.
This is reflected in another year of awards and recognition across the Group.
For example: Cisco EMEAR Partner of the Year Award Mobility User readiness New Kerpen Integration Center 2018 Cisco EMEAR Architectural Excellence Partner of the Year: Security 2018 Cisco Germany Enterprise Partner of the Year 2018 Symantec EMEA Partner of the Year 2018 Microsoft Modern Desktop Manager one of only six Global Launch Partners 16 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 OUR ESTABLISHED PARTNERS VENDOR PARTNER SOLUTIONS We hold over 200 partner accreditations and our people hold over 10,000 EMEAR Partner of the Leading Enterprise Partner certifications.
Year 2018 One of eight global Synergy Partner of Choice Titanium Black Partners EMEA 2018 Highest accredited Leading Partner in Workplace Personal System and Data Center Imaging & Printing Globally third largest Windows migration partner Partner of the Year EMEA 2018 Only ServiceNow Gold Leading Global Partner Accreditation for Sales and Service in EMEA Data Center, Hatfield, UK 17
