Our customer offering EVOLVING A DIFFERENTIATED AND COMPLETE CUSTOMER OFFER Our customers are confident in our skills and capabilities to help them make the right choices in the complex and fast-changing world of digital technology.
To maintain this trust we invest to stay relevant and competitive and ensure we have a complete offering of Services capable of delivering at scale.
This section explores Computacenters breadth of capability supporting the complete lifecycle for IT infrastructure and how it underpins our go to market messaging in the form of three strategic propositions: Digital Me, Digital Power and Digital Trust.
In this section Our complete customer offer Our breadth of skills Our Service Centers Our strategic propositions Nat Ives Managed Services Strategy & Innovation Director 10 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Transform Manage OUR COMPLETE CUSTOMER OFFER By combining our technology partners with We use a broad range of operational skills, Our comprehensive capabilities help our own project managers, consultants, across a network of international Service customers to Source, Transform and Manage engineers and test facilities we support Centers and distributed engineering teams, digital technology across the domains of End customers from initial planning through to to operate and manage customers IT User, Data & Analytics, Cloud & Data Center, their digital transformations going live.
This increases quality and Networking and Security.
Our We provide holistic solutions and services, award-winning Service Desk offering and Source within or across the five technology domains, a relentless focus on end users drive Our powerful partnerships with the leading which enable genuine realisation of business engagement and enablement for over technology providers in the market allow us goals.
Our engagements range from 3.7 million users globally.
to help our customers to make informed and long-term, complex transformation wise choices in the selection of digital programmes to shorter-term or expertIn the end user domain in particular, we technology.
With our investments in our leasing based consulting and increasingly sell a defined Managed Service, Integration Centers, underpinned by our implementation engagement.
with related service level agreements and people, systems and processes, we can then either fixed or consumption-based pricing.
help our customers to integrate and deploy Where customers want more flexibility or digital technology at scale across the world.
control, we also provide support and skills on Increasingly, our customers are asking us to a more transactional basis.
Complementing take more responsibility in this area and help our Technology Sourcing services, we offer a them deliver faster both for their end users range of product lifecycle and maintenance and to underpin the digital strategies for services, often on a per-device basis.
BREADTH OF SKILLS Our portfolio of Sourcing, Transformation and Managed Services spans across all relevant infrastructure areas ensuring our customers have access to a reliable, secure and flexible technology platform to accelerate their business.
End User Data & Cloud & Data Networking Security Analytics Center Source Technology Sourcing Transform IT Strategy & Advisory Services Design & Build Services Integration & Migration Services Manage Support & Maintenance Services Managed Services 11 Our customer offering continued OUR SERVICE CENTERS OUR STRATEGIC PROPOSITIONS Digital Me Our Service Centers deliver a range of shared We reflect the voice of the customer by We design, build and run secure, accessible and dedicated capabilities including: consolidating our broad portfolio of digital workplaces that drive productivity capability into three strategic go-to-market and employee engagement for our Service Desk propositions designed to address an customers.
These are differentiated through Our goal is to provide a faster and smarter emerging market trend with a specific value a user-centric approach and increasingly response to users.
We deliver end-to-end proposition and vision: powered by analytics, AI and automation to user support, locally and globally, and drive down cost to serve.
Our global Digital Me Digital Workplace Service Desks handle over 1.2 million Digital Power Hybrid IT contacts per month, using 30 languages, Digital Trust Security at a price point and quality tailored to meet customer priorities.
We leverage analytics, chatbots and intelligent automation to improve our agent productivity and each end users experience.
Remote Infrastructure Management The scale of our operation means we can support users and systems anywhere in the Digital Power world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
We provide sourcing, advisory and support From virtual servers to user devices, our services that help our customers to navigate infrastructure services manage and improve the complex journey towards a hybrid and availability, performance and security.
multi-cloud future and create the digital platforms that power their businesses.
For Network Operations Center some, this means building out platforms that Our Network Operations Center optimises support the rapid growth that their success our customers network performance and in the global digital economy is delivering.
availability, to enable productive end users and reliable connectivity for business services.
Cyber Defence Center We identify and highlight existing or potential security breaches, hacks, malware or vulnerabilities and ensure that they are managed through to resolution.
In doing so, we help both Computacenter and our customers to meet increasingly stringent Digital Trust compliance standards, as well as protecting Our customers face an ever-expanding users from cyber-crime and ensuring that our cyber-threat landscape, more demanding customers businesses remain productive.
compliance requirements and a shortage of security talent to address it.
We have the skills and partnerships to deliver complete security solutions, from End Point and Infrastructure Security through to Cyber Defence.
We enable public sector, industry and service organisations to undertake digital transformation securely.
12 ENGAGING WITH EFFECTIVE ACCESS COLLABORATION TO INFORMATION N O I T E A N R G O A B G A E L S M L E E O C N Y C U T T R I I T T N Y E & D STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Workstyle Analysis Adoption Client Management Social Collaboration Service Desk End User Experience Management Enterprise Mobility Voice & Video Client Computing including Windows 10 Hybrid Services Messaging Evergreen Enterprise Mobility Connectivity Workspaces Virtual Desktop Communication and Collaboration Application Lifecycle Tech Bar Sync & Share End User Connectivity and Local Area App Store Analytics Networks Digital Signage Integrated Request Print Print Multi-channel Support Content Management NGSD Analytics and Big Data Service Management Platforms Cloud Native Platforms Multi-Cloud Public Hybrid Cloud Server and Storage Converged and Hyperconverged Infrastructure Software Defined Infrastructure and Networks Data Center Networks End Point Security Infrastructure Security INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT Information and Industrial Security Cyber Defence CYBER DEFENCE Information Security Identity and Access IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT Production Networks ENDPOINT SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY INDUSTRIAL IT OFFICE IT 13 I C L O A M T P I G L I I I A D N M N F R C O O E R F M T A A T L I P O N EMPOWERING THROUGH ENABLING WITH DIGITAL SELF-SERVICE TECHNOLOGIES Office IT
