ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 104 Directors report In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, Together with the interim dividend of 4.0 cents US dollar paid theDirectors of ContourGlobal plc present their report to inSeptember 2018, this would bring the total dividend for the shareholders on the audited consolidated financial statements yearto 13.4 cents US dollar.
The declaration and payment by the Company of any future Strategic report dividends and the amounts of any such dividends depend on As permitted by section 414C of the Companies Act 2006, certain ContourGlobals ability to maintain its credit rating, its investments, information required to be included in the Directors report has results, financial condition, future prospects, profits being available for distribution, consideration of certain covenants under the terms been included in the strategic report.
Specifically, this relates to information on the likely future developments of the business of outstanding indebtedness, and any other factors deemed by ofthe Group, financial risk management and the disclosure of the Directors to be relevant at the time, subject always to the greenhouse gas emissions for which the Company is responsible.
The Directors expect that dividends, which were previously distributed biannually, will be Dividend distributed on a quarterly basis going forward.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 9.4 2017: nil cents US dollar per ordinary share on 30th May 2019 Relations with other capital providers inrespect of the year ended 31st December 2018, subject to The Board recognizes the contribution made by other providers approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
ofcapital to the Group and welcomes the views of such providers Thedividend will payable to shareholders on the register in relation to the Groups approach to corporate governance.
attheclose of business on 3rd May 2019.
Additional information incorporated into this Directors report, including information required in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, can be found as follows: Disclosure Location Financial risk management objectives and policies Notes 4.14, 4.15 and 4.17 to the financial statements including hedging policy and use of financial instruments Future business developments Strategic report pages 1 to 67 Going concern Strategic report page 67 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report page 54 Directors responsibilities statement Page 106 Events since the reporting date Note 4.34 to the consolidated financial statements Diversity policy Nomination Committee report For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Disclosure Location Interest capitalized Note 4.7 to the consolidated financial statements Detail of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration report Contracts of significance with a controlling shareholder Relationship Agreement on page 75 Agreements with controlling shareholder Relationship Agreement on page 75 Directors The Directors of the Company who held office during the year and up to the date of this report are: Service in the year ended 31st December 2018 Craig A. Huff Served throughout the year Joseph C. Brandt Served throughout the year Ruth Cairnie Appointed 3rd January 2018 Daniel Camus Served throughout the year Alan Gillespie Served throughout the year Alejandro Santo Domingo Served throughout the year Ronald Trchsel Served throughout the year Gregg M. Zeitlin Served throughout the year Biographies of the Directors are provided in the Governance section on pages 70 and 71.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 105 Share capital In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, theDirectors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 4.22 tothe Consolidated Financial Statements, including details on the Allof the continuing Directors will stand for re-election at the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year.
As at 31st December 2018, the Companys issued share capital Powers of Directors consisted of 670,712,920 ordinary shares.
No shares are held Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies intreasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Act 2006 and to any authorities provided by special resolution, Company is 670,712,920. the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu inall respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and Directors interests distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the Information on share ownership by Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 94. ordinary shares.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice of, and Directors indemnities and director and officer liability toattend and speak at, any general meeting of the Company.
insurance Onashow of hands every shareholder present in person As at the date of this report, the Company has granted qualifying orbyproxy or being a corporation represented by a duly third-party indemnities to each of its Directors against any liability  shall have one vote, and on a poll that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act.
In addition, haveonevote for every share of which he is the holder.
Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries TheNotice ofAnnual General Meeting specifies deadlines havebeen and continue to be covered by director and officer forexercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies.
Other than the general provisions of the Articles of Association Research and development ContourGlobal plc is constantly engaged in process and product and prevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions on thesize of a holding or on the transfer of the ordinary shares.
For examples of the Companys R&D activities, please refer to the business review.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in the restriction of the Sustainable development transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No shareholder holds The business review section of this report, on pages 36 to 55, securities carrying any special rights or control over the focuses on the Companys health and safety, environmental Companys share capital.
compliance and employment performance and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of Authority to purchase own shares sustainable development and the development of community Subject to authorization by shareholder resolution, the Company relations programs.
may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Financial instruments Act 2006.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found as treasury shares or cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
inNotes 4.15 and 4.17 to the financial statements.
Prior to listing, the Company was generally and unconditionally Political donations authorized by its shareholders to make market purchases within It is the Companys policy not to make political donations.
the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of up to Nopolitical contributions were made in 2018 2017: nil.
a maximum of 67,071,292 of its ordinary shares.
The Company has not repurchased any of its ordinary shares under this authority, Charitable donations which is due to expire at the 2019 AGM, and accordingly has an Please refer to page 37. unexpired authority to purchase up to 67,071,292 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 670,712.92.
Overseas branches ContourGlobal plc does not have any branches.
A full list of the Groups controlled subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 4.29 of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association were adopted pursuant Consolidated Financial Statements.
toa resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company heldon 8th November 2017.
The Articles of Association may only Major shareholdings be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the The table below shows the interests in ordinary shares notified to shareholders.
The Companys current articles are available on the Company in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and ourwebsite at www.
Transparency Rules as at 31st December 2018 and 29th March 2019.
Directors appointment and reelection The Board has the power at any time to elect any person to be 31st December 2018 29th March 2019 aDirector.
% % Number of Number of Under the Relationship Agreement, ContourGlobal LP is entitled of shares shares of shares shares toappoint two Non-Executive Directors to the Board while it ContourGlobal LP 478,932,408 71 478,932,408 71 continues to control 25% or more of the Companys shares.
Further details of the Relationship Agreement can be found on GIC Private Limited 60,944,000 9 60,944,000 9 page 75.
The appointees by Reservoir Capital are Craig A. Huff and Gregg M. Zeitlin.
1 The Reservoir Funds own approximately 99.6% of ContourGlobal LP and arethemselves ultimately managed and controlled by Reservoir Capital.
Themanaging member of Reservoir Capital is RCGM, LLC.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 106 Directors report continued Significant contractual arrangements If ContourGlobal sells certain of its assets or experiences specific Relationship Agreement kinds of changes in control as defined in the Euro Bond A Relationship Agreement is in place between the Company, Indenture, ContourGlobal must offer to purchase the Euro Bonds ContourGlobal LP, the Reservoir Funds, Reservoir Capital and the at a purchase price equal to 100% and 101% respectively of the Company President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph C. Brandt principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest the Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the thereon to, but excluding, the date of purchase.
Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company can carry on an independent business as its main activity.
The Board is Annual General Meeting AGM satisfied that the Company is capable of carrying on its business The 2019 AGM will be held on 21st May 2019 in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions of independently of its major shareholder, ContourGlobal LP, and the Board, including the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
thatthe Board makes its decisions in a manner consistent with itsduties to the Company and stakeholders of ContourGlobal plc.
Further details on the Relationship Agreement can be found in Full details of the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained thecorporate governance report on page 75. in the Notice of the AGM.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to beproposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
Revolving Credit Facility All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys CG Power Holdings, the Company together with its permitted website at www.
successors and assignees, the Parent Guarantor, ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings S.. r. l. ContourGlobal Terra Holdings S.. r. l. Audit information and certain other subsidiaries of the Company entered into a Each of the Directors who were members of the Board at the 75million senior secured revolving credit facility RCF with BNP dateof the approval of this report confirms that so far as he or Paribas Securities Corp. Credit Suisse AG, London Branch and sheis aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that he or she has taken Goldman Sachs Bank USA as lenders, the effective date of which is 9th November 2018.
The guarantees and all of the obligations allthe reasonable steps that he or she ought to have taken as under the RCF are secured by a first-priority lien on the shares aDirector to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit ofCG Power Holdings and on the capital stock of each RCF information and to establish that the Companys auditors are guarantor other than the Parent Guarantor, subject to certain aware of the information.
exceptions and release under certain circumstances.
The RCF isscheduled to mature three years after the effective date.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Borrowings under the RCF bear interest at floating rates equal with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. toeither LIBOR plus 2.25% margin or Alternate Base Rate plus 1.25% margin.
The strategic report, comprising the inside front cover and pages 1to 67, and the Directors report, comprising pages 68 to 106, Euro Bonds which together form the management report as required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 4.1.
8R, have On 26th July 2018, CG Power Holdings issued the Euro Bonds been approved by the Board on 4th April 2019 and are signed inaprivate offering exempt from the registration requirements ofthe Securities Act 1933, as amended.
The Euro Bonds have onits behalf by anaggregate principal amount of 750 million split between two tranches: 450 million of 3.375% Senior Secured Notes due 2023 and 300 million of 4.125% Senior Secured Notes due 2025.
TheEuro Bonds were issued pursuant to the Euro Bond Indenture.
Joseph C. Brandt The Euro Bond Indenture provides that ContourGlobal may: President, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director ContourGlobal plc a prior to 1st August 2020 for the 2023 Notes and prior to 1st 4th April 2019 August 2021 for the 2025 Notes, redeem all or part of the Euro Bonds by paying 100% of the principal amount of the Euro Bonds redeemed plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the redemption date: b prior to 1st August 2020 for the 2023 Notes and prior to 1st August 2021 for the 2025 Notes, on one or more occasions, redeem through the use of net proceeds of specified equity offerings up to 40% of the principal amount of the Euro Bonds, upon giving prior notice, at a redemption price equal to 103.375% for the 2023 Notes and 104.125% for the 2025 Notes of the aggregate principal amount of the Euro Bonds being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, to, but not including, the redemption date, provided that at least 60% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Euro Bonds remains outstanding after the redemption and the redemption occurs within 180 days of thedate of the closing of such equity offering: and c redeem all or part of the Euro Bonds on or after 1st August 2020 for the 2023 Notes and 1st August 2021 for the 2025 Notes at the redemption prices set forth in the Offering Memorandum.
