ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 26 Our role in the electricity value chain We are an operator and growth company that develops and acquires power generation businesses.
We operate two lines of business: Renewable Thermal Solar Natural gas and biogas Photovoltaic solar power is generated using Natural gas consists mainly of methane solarcells to convert energy from the sun into andiscreated as a result of underground aflow of electrons.
The cells produce a direct decomposition.
Biogas can be produced current which can be used to power equipment.
Concentrated solar power generates power by Thegasisused asfuel for different concentrating sunlight onto a small area using technologiesto produce electricity.
Electricity is generated when Total capacity 1,298 MW this is converted to heat, which produces steam Number of plants 15 for a turbo-generator.
Total capacity 358 MW Number of plants 54 Wind Coal Wind turbines harness the kinetic energy of the Coal is burnt in a furnace to produce heat.
wind and redirect it to generate electrical power.
Thisproduces steam which is then piped toaturbine.
Total capacity 878 MW Total capacity 1,073 MW Number of plants 16 Number of plants 2 Hydro Liquid fuels Hydropower is produced by moving water.
Liquid fuels are used in reciprocating Electrical generators are attached to turbines enginestoproduce electricity.
which spin at speed as a result of the Total capacity 139 MW rushingwater.
Number of plants 4 Total capacity 571 MW Number of plants 10 We focus on the wholesale power generation part of the electricity value chain Power generation ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 27 Power generation Our portfolio ONCE AN ASSET HAS The electricity supply chain has four main Our business is international with BEEN CONSTRUCTED segments: generation, transmission, aconcentration in three primary regions: distribution and retail.
We focus on the Europe, Latin America and, to a lesser OR PURCHASED, wholesale power generation segment, extent, sub-Saharan Africa.
We operate WE OPERATE THE generating power using both thermal inthe electricity generation market and andrenewable technologies.
engage in all phases of a power plants life.
POWER PLANT USING In the development of a project, we secure EITHER THERMAL Thermal and Renewable contracts, obtain permits, and arrange Our Thermal portfolio includes natural financing for assets that we will build ORRENEWABLE gasand biogas, liquid fuels and coal.
Once an asset has been FUEL SOURCES.
OurRenewable portfolio includes wind, constructed or purchased, we operate hydro, concentrated solar power and thepower plant using either thermal photovoltaic solar power.
Contracted Our customers include national grids and Power generation can be defined as either utilities that supply these grids, as well as merchant or contracted.
Contracted plants commercial and industrial customers that have minimal exposure to market prices receive electricity, steam, water, or CO 2 forthe duration of the underlying contract directly from on-site facilities.
because the price is negotiated and fixed upfront.
This is done either through long-term power purchase agreements PPAs, which typically have more stable margins than projects fully exposed to market prices, or prices set under a regulatory regime and subject to periodic review.
PPAs also typically fide-risk the generator from demand volume volatility and other changes in market conditions such as changes in electricity, fuel and CO prices.
