ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 100 Summary of Remuneration Policy Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy Our Remuneration Policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors was presented and approved by shareholders at our 2018 AGM receiving 99.8% support.
It is intended that the Remuneration Policy will apply for three years following approval.
The Remuneration Policy table detailing the key components of the forward-looking remuneration package is provided below for reference.
The full Remuneration Policy can be found in the 2017 annual report available on our website at www.
Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To help recruit and retain Salaries are normally reviewed In considering any increase in Executive Director performance executives of suitable caliber to annually with any changes taking base salary, if any increase is to isa factor considered when deliver the Companys strategic effect from 1st January each year.
be made the Committee is guided determining salaries.
by the general increase for the Salaries are set taking into broader employee population.
Reflects the individuals consideration a number of experience, performance and factors, including: However, more significant responsibilities within the Individual and Company increases may be awarded from Company.
performance time to time in certain Skills and experience of each circumstances.
For example, an individual increase in the individuals role or Responsibilities and responsibility, an increase in the accountabilities of each role scale or complexity of the Mix of package of the individual Company, or when an individual Salary increases for the overall has been appointed to a new role employee population at a below market salary while Changes in size or complexity gaining experience.
of the Company Market competitiveness External indicators, such asinflation The Committee aims to set levels that are broadly aligned with equivalent roles at relevant peers and other companies of broadly comparable size and complexity, taking into account the country inwhich the Director is based where appropriate.
Benefits To provide a market competitive Benefits may include, but are There is no formal maximum limit Not performance related.
benefits package to assist notlimited to, private medical as benefit costs can fluctuate withrecruitment and retention insurance, dental insurance, depending on changes in ofExecutive Directors of Company car or allowance, life provider cost and individual suitablecaliber.
Under certain circumstances, additional benefits in relation torelocation or expatriation maybeprovided.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similarterms.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon incurred in connection with the role may be reimbursed.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 101 Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Pensions To provide a market competitive The Company may make Up to 20% of base salary per Not performance related.
pension package to assist with contributions, or payment in lieu annum.
recruitment and retention of of contributions, to a pension Executive Directors of suitable scheme.
The current President & CEO does not receive any pension contributions.
Annual performance bonus To incentivize and reward the Annual bonuses are subject to The maximum bonus opportunity Performance is measured over achievement of annual strategic achievement of stretching is 100% of base salary with 50% the financial year.
performance conditions, which ofmaximum payable for on-target are set by the Committee at the performance and 25% of Performance measures and Delivery of a proportion of start of each financial year.
At the maximum payable for weightings are determined by remuneration in shares reinforces end of the year, the Committee thresholdperformance.
theCommittee each year and retention and provides alignment determines the extent to which may vary to take into account with the interests of shareholders these were achieved.
changes in the business strategy.
Annual bonuses are payable in At least 70% of the bonus will be cash, with any bonus earned in subject to corporate objectives excess of the target bonus such as EBITDA, cash flow, deferred into shares which vest growth targets, Health & Safety after at least two years subject to and other corporate measures continued employment.
with the balance being subject to measurable individual objectives.
Participants may also be entitled to receive dividend equivalents The Committee may adjust the on share awards that vest.
bonus outcome if it considers thatthe pay-out is inconsistent Bonus payments, including with the Companys overall deferred bonus awards, are performance, taking into subject to recovery and accountany relevant factors.
withholding provisions in certain TheCommittee will consult circumstances, including in the  if event of a material misstatement appropriate before any exercise of accounts, an error in assessing of its discretion to increase the the performance condition, bonus outcome.
serious misconduct, or any other exceptional circumstances which In addition, the Committee has the Committee considers justify absolute discretion as to the the operation of the recovery and amount of any bonus outcome, withholding provisions.
notwithstanding achievement ofthe measures applicable tothebonus, which may take intoaccount the Companys underlying performance.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 102 Summary of Remuneration Policy continued Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To reward delivery of sustained Awards will normally be granted The maximum award level is 100% Performance is normally long-term performance and annually to Executive Directors of base salary per annum.
incentivize successful execution inthe form of conditional free of business strategy over the shares or nil or nominal No more than 25% of each The Committee has the flexibility longer term.
costoptions that normally performance element may vest to vary measures and weightings, vestafter three years subject for threshold performance.
including introduction of new Facilitates share ownership to toperformance conditions measures, for each award taking provide further alignment with andcontinued service.
into account business priorities shareholders.
Following vesting, awards will normally be subject to a holding The Committee may reduce the period whereby vested awards, vesting outcome if it considers net of tax, must be retained for that the level of vesting is atleast a further two years.
inconsistent with the Companys overall performance, taking into Participants may also be entitled account any relevant factors.
to receive dividend equivalents on awards that vest Awards are subject to recovery and withholding provisions in certain circumstances, including in the event of a material misstatement of accounts, anerror in assessing the performance condition, serious misconduct, or any other exceptional circumstances which the Committee considers justify the operation of the recovery and withholding provisions.
Share ownership guidelines To encourage Executive Executive Directors are required Executive Directors are required Not performance related.
Directorsto build a meaningful to retain at least half of any share to build and retain a shareholding shareholding in the Company awards vesting net of tax under in the Company equivalent to at soas to further align interests the Companys discretionary least 200% of their base salary.
share based employee incentive schemes until the guideline ismet.
Shares owned outright on or following Admission will count towards the guideline.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 103 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fees To attract and retain a high-caliber The Company Chairman is paid There is no maximum level Not performance related.
Chairman and Non-Executive asingle annual fee.
Directors by offering marketcompetitive fee levels.
Non-Executive Directors are When reviewing fee levels, paidan annual basic fee, plus account is taken of market additional fees for additional movements in Non-Executive responsibilities such as a Director fees, Board Committee Committee Chairmanship and responsibilities, ongoing time therole of Senior Independent commitments and the general Director, to reflect their extra economic environment.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to purchase shares in the Company annually to the value of 25% of their gross fees.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee and Chief Executive.
Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Company Chairman and Executive Directors.
Fee levels are set taking into consideration market levels in comparably sized companies, thetime commitment and responsibilities of the role, andthe experience and expertiserequired.
The Chairman and NonExecutives are not eligible toparticipate in incentive arrangements or to receive anypension.
Reasonable travel, accommodation and other business-related expenses incurred in carrying out the rolewill be reimbursed by theCompany, including any taxthereon.
Prior commitments and PIP For the duration of this Policy, the Company will honor any commitments made in respect of current or former Directors before the date on which either: i the Directors remuneration policy becomes effective: or ii an individual becomes a Director, even where such commitments arenot consistent with the policy set out in this report or prevailing at the time any such commitment is fulfilled.
For the avoidance of doubt, alloutstanding historical awards that were granted in connection with, or prior to, listing including those made by ContourGlobal LP under the PIP remain eligible to vest based on their original or modified terms.
