ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 70 Board of Directors Craig A. Huff Joseph C. Brandt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Committee Membership: Nomination Committee Chair Craig co-founded ContourGlobal in 2005 and serves as the Joseph co-founded ContourGlobal and has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
He co-founded Reservoir ContourGlobals President and Chief Executive Officer since Capital in 1998 and is a member of all fund Investment 2005and is a member of its Board of Directors.
He currently serves on the boards of many of development and operations in the global electric utility industry Reservoir Capitals portfolio companies in industries such as inEurope, the Americas and Africa for nearly two decades.
energy, power, aircraft leasing and insurance.
He has also been Beforeco-founding ContourGlobal in 2005, Joseph worked at instrumental in the formation and development of a variety of The AES Corporation, an international power company, from 1999 hedge funds and private investment firms.
Before founding to 2005, serving as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Reservoir Capital, Craig was a partner at Ziff Brothers Investments.
Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer.
At AES, his responsibilities Prior to business school, he served in the US Navy as a nuclear included managing the Companys global utility operations in the submarine officer and nuclear engineer.
Craig is the President Americas, Africa and Eastern Europe.
He served on the board of ofthe Board of Trustees of St. Bernards School and serves as directors of many of AESs key subsidiaries, including AES Gener aTrustee of the Princeton Theological Seminary.
He graduated in Chile where he was Chairman of the Board.
Joseph received magna cum laude from Abilene Christian University with a aBA from George Mason University, an MA from the University BSinEngineering Physics.
He completed his MBA at Harvard ofVirginia and a JD from Georgetown University Law Center.
Business School, where he graduated with high distinction Healso attended graduate school at the University of California, asaBaker Scholar.
Berkeley and was a Fulbright Fellow at Helsinki University inFinland.
Gregg M. Zeitlin Alejandro Santo Domingo NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Committee Membership: Nomination Committee Gregg has served on ContourGlobals Board of Directors since Alejandro has served on ContourGlobals Board of Directors 2008.
He co-founded Reservoir Capital in 1998, serves as a sinceOctober 2017.
He has been a Senior Managing Director Senior Managing Director, and is a member of all fund Investment atQuadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. in New York City since 2001.
He serves on the boards of several Reservoir Capital Hewas a member of the board of directors of SABMiller plc portfolio companies and has been instrumental in the formation from2005 to 2016 and Vice-Chairman of SABMiller plc.
for Latin and development of several investment firms seeded by Reservoir America from 2005 to 2016.
Since October 2016 he has been Capital.
Before founding Reservoir Capital, Gregg was a partner at amember of the board of Anheuser-Busch Inbev ABI.
He is Ziff Brothers Investments.
Before joining Ziff Brothers Investments, Chairman of the board of Bavaria S. A. in Colombia.
He is also he was Vice President, Financial Strategy for Ziff Communications Chairman of the board of Valorem, a Company which manages Company, where he focused on strategic partnerships and adiverse portfolio of industrial and media assets in Latin America.
acquisitions, and ultimately, the sale of the Ziff familys operating In addition, he is a Director of Millicom: JDE Jacobs Douwe businesses.
Previously, he worked at Sunrise Capital Partners and Egberts : Keurig Green Mountain: Florida Crystals, the worlds Wasserstein Perella & Co. Gregg graduated with Highest Honors largest sugar refiner: Caracol TV, Colombias leading broadcaster: from the University of Texas at Austin with a BBA in Finance.
El Espectador, a leading Colombian Daily, and Cine Colombia, Colombias leading film distribution and movie theater Company.
In the non-profit sector, he is Vice Chairman of the Wildlife Conservation Society, a member of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Educational Broadcasting Corporation WNET Channel Thirteen.
He is also a member of theboard and Treasurer of Aid for AIDS, a foundation dedicated tohelping HIV and AIDS patients.
He is a member of the board ofDKMS Americas, a foundation dedicated to finding donors forleukemia patients.
He is also a member of the board ofFundacion Pies Descalzos.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 71 Ruth Cairnie Dr. Alan Gillespie Independent Senior Independent NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Remuneration Committee Audit & Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Ruth was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director of Alan has served on ContourGlobals Board of Directors since ContourGlobal in January 2018.
Ruth was formerly Executive Vice October 2017.
Alan was Senior Independent Director of Old President Strategy & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell plc, where she Mutual plc from 2011 until 2018 and Chairman of the United held a number of senior international roles, including Vice Kingdoms Economic and Social Research Council ESRC from President of the Global Commercial Fuels business.
Prior to this, Alan was a Non-Executive Director on the boards of Shell Pakistan Ltd and joint venture companies ofElan Corporation plc from 1996 to 2007, Chairman of Ulster inGermany and Thailand.
She is currently a non-executive director Bank Group from 2001 to 2008 and Senior Independent Director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, Babcock International Group plc of United Business Media plc from 2008 to 2017.
In the public andAssociated British Foods plc.
Sheis also a member of the sector, Alan served as Chairman of The Northern Ireland Industrial Advisory Board of the Rotterdam School of Management and Development Board from 1996 to 2002, and as Chief Executive sitson the Finance Committee of Cambridge University.
She is a ofthe United Kingdoms Commonwealth Development trustee of Windsor Leadership.
Ruth graduated with joint honors Corporation CDC Capital Partners from 2000 to 2003, where inMathematics and Physics from Bristol University and also holds hewas responsible for the creation of Globeleq, an electricity a Masters in Advanced Studies in Mathematics from Cambridge generation and transmission business across the emerging University.
He also served as Chairman of The International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm until 2012.
Prior to his tenure atCDC, Alans investment banking career spanned 10 years at Citigroup, Inc. in London and Geneva, and 15 years at Goldman Sachs & Co. in London, where he was a Partner for 10 years.
Alan received an MA and PhD from the University of Cambridge and is an Honorary Fellow at Clare College, University of Cambridge.
Ronald Trchsel Daniel Camus Independent Independent NonExecutive NonExecutive Director Director Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Audit & Risk Committee Chair Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee Ronald served as a Director of ContourGlobal LP the pre-IPO Daniel served as a Director of ContourGlobal LP the pre-IPO group parent from May 2015.
He has served as the Chief group parent from April 2016.
He is an independent director Financial Officer of the BKW Group since 2014.
From 2007 to ofCameco Corp, a role held since 2011.
Previous appointments 2014, Ronald served as the Chief Financial Officer of Sika Group, include independent director of Valeo France and a member of and from 1999 to 2007, he held several positions at Vitra Group, the Supervisory Board of SGL Group SE Germany until 2018, and including Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Financial Officer of the Geneva-based humanitarian finance Before joining Vitra Group, Ronald also worked at Ringier Group, organization The Global Fund from 2012 to 2017.
He has also Ciba-Geigy Corporation and BDO Visura.
He also serves on served as Senior Advisor to Roland Berger Strategy Consultants various boards of directors, including the board of Swissgrid AG, since 2011.
From 2002 to 2011, he served as Group CFO and KWO AG, Wyss Samen und Pflanzen AG and Creation Baumann Headof Strategy and International Activities of Electricit fide AG.
Mr. Trchsel received an MBA from the University of Bern.
Based in France and with an international presence, EDF is an integrated energy operator active in the generation, distribution, transmission, supply and trading of electrical energy.
Before joining EDF, Daniel held various roles inthe chemical and pharmaceutical industry in Germany, France, the United States and Canada.
He held several senior responsibilities with the Hoechst and Aventis Groups.
Daniel received his PhD in Economics from the Sorbonne University andis a Laureate of the Institute dtudes Politiques fide Paris, specializing in finance.
