M a x y i t i m n i u z t e r o p p e p r o f o y r f i m t a t n n e n c d e e I m e g a ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 30 Our strategy for growth We have a highly disciplined, proven strategy that we apply to capital allocation.
We seek out the highest risk-adjusted returns, competing projects against one another, and refuse to invest in growth 1 opportunities that we do not believe appropriately reward the risks.
Operational excellence We have a culture of operational excellence and Our disciplined approach safetythat drives strong operational performance to executing our strategy andcontinues to create significant value through operational improvements and fixed cost reduction.
Webring these capabilities to our growth activities.
Our commitment to providing a safe working place for employees, contractors and sub-contractors is reflected 1 inour Target Zero commitment zero harm, zero injuries, Operational tracked by our LTIR and other Health and Safety metrics excellence see pages 36 and 37 and driven by a culture of continuous improvement.
Our relentless focus on continued cost reduction ensures animble corporate structure with low fixed costs: Businesses, acquisitions and developments are subject tocontinuous intense review Any position in business must be justified on an ongoing basis in the annual budget process Core values and A lean and flat organization structure results in significantly principles reduced fixed costs, enhanced operational transparency and communication and a strengthened ability to recruit high quality talent We continuously improve operational performance by benchmarking ourselves against top industry performers, 3 2 intensely analyzing our failures, and communicating transparently.
Senior management, for example, reports Financial High weekly about availability factor and equivalent forced strength growth outageand regularly reports progress against objectives.
In addition, we have made significant investments in corporate platforms to allow us to achieve greater scale withminimal incremental growth in selling, general and administrative SG&A expenses: minimize corporate costs, and enhance M&A integration.
n a m k s i o R i l o f t r I n o v p e e s z t i m i t p O ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 31 2 3 High Financial growth strength We adopt five core investment approaches, all focused We focus on maximizing cash flow distributions from oncontracted or regulated wholesale power generation eachof our projects to ensure that we can fund new across different technologies and geographies.
greenfield developments, M&A opportunities, corporate costs and dividends organically without having to rely 1.
Greenfield development oncapital markets funding.
Developing a project from the ground up makes sense whenwe can take advantage of cyclical under-supply We also benefit from a highly efficient capital structure with ofcapital and create opportunities for higher returns.
non-recourse project-level debt at each project company and attractive corporate level bond debt that maximizes 2.
Greenfield acquisitions theCompanys financial flexibility.
Purchasing assets without existing contracts, subject to the ability to put contracts in place.
Involves similar, customized We seek to maintain industry standard leverage levels and contractual risk profiles to our development assets but has tobalance growth and financial risk.
Our focus is on parent the benefit of an operating history.
company leverage, which we define as cash distributions to the parent to net debt at the parent.
Strategic acquisitions contribute to attractive shareholder returns.
Purchasing assets with existing contracts where we have both: i a clear competitive advantage due to asset size, Combining strong operational performance, flexible and technology, asset diversity or complexity of process or agile corporate strategy and an efficient capital structure market: and ii an ability to improve operations.
hasenabled us to deliver superior project level returns.
Asat31st December 2018, our weighted average financing 4.
Development in partnership projects cost excluding inflation adjustments on Brazilian assets Developing projects with customized contracts in partnership was4.5%.
with governments, utilities and corporations.
These are in regions where there is need for reliable power infrastructure In addition, we enable financial investment partners to but insufficient capital and expertise.
makepassive, minority investments in some of our assets onattractive terms for ContourGlobal.
Platform expansions significantly bolster our project returns and our strategy Developing expansion of existing projects leverages existing istocontinue to seek similar opportunities.
relationships with governments, off takers, lenders and suppliers, replicating the same technology and structure.
Our financial KPIs are detailed on pages 34 and 35 and Platform expansions are typically low risk and high return, 56to59.
given the expertise already acquired, the synergies and costreductions achieved by expanding the platform.
