ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 24 Our business model 1 2 3 Our inputs Our aim Our way of creating value Our mission is to develop, The resources we need.
acquire and operate electricity Natural resources We focus on long-term generation businesses Coal, gas, solar power, wind, hydropower.
contracted or regulated worldwide, creating economic wholesale power generation Talented people and social value through better where there is real demand With operational expertise and know-how.
operations, and makingthe around the world, producing communities where we work Assets and financing high value, low risk returns better because we are there.
Long-term cash flows and financing and employing an efficient provide opportunities for growth.
We anticipate changes in the Global Our global footprint is concentrated in world around us.
three core areas: Europe, Latin America The ongoing industry transformation favors and sub-Saharan Africa.
We believe that our disciplined growth strategy.
geographical diversity produces superior risk-adjusted returns and enhanced operating practices.
We engage with our stakeholders to understand Technologically diverse what matters to them.
Our portfolio is technologically diverse, balanced between Thermal and Investors We adhere to the highest standards of Renewable assets: we believe that corporate governance and business ethics.
diversification creates a more robust Growing well is one of our key principles.
Long-term Employees Our long-term contracts regulated We uphold human rights and labor revenues have a weighted average principles throughout the Companys remaining term of c. 11 years, delivering valuechain.
The stability of these cash flows enables us to incur greater Communities leverage than uncontracted revenues Our community engagement takes place andpay greater dividends.
through all phases of the business life cycle, from development through operations, and includes a commitment tosocially invest.
Governments We promote sector development and laudable business practices by interacting with governments and civil society.
Our values and principles underpin everything we do Our values Our principles To care about our peoples health, safety, To act transparently and with Operate safely and efficiently and well-being and development.
To expect, embrace and enable To honor the commitments of those Grow well.
excellence and continuous learning whohave placed their trust in us.
through humility, and the knowledge that To work hard and without boundaries Enhance our operating environment.
we will fail but when we do, we will learn.
M a x y i t i m n i u z t e r o p p e p r o f o y r f i m t a t n n e n c d e e I m e g a ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 25 4 Our disciplined approach to executing our strategy Our positive impact We create a positive impactfor talented people 1 Operational 1,489 excellence Employees engaged and motivated toreach their full potential.
Page 30 knowledge 123,195 Training hours to develop our employees and contractors.
shareholders $44.1m Core Dividends paid in 2018. values and assets principles 4.3 GW Installed capacity across 101 sites in Pages 16 to 23 18countries.
4% compared to 2017. community 3 2 16,600 Financial High Hours devoted to community strength growth educationactivities.
Page 31 Page 31 environment 0.56 Net CO emissions tonnes MWh.
Our business performance is data-driven with KPIs measured Financial Non-Financial Income from Operations Lost Time Incident Rate Adjusted EBITDA Availability Factor Proportionate Adjusted EBITDA Equivalent Forced Outage Rate Funds from Operations Net leverage ratio n a m k s i o R i l o f t r I n o v p e e s z t i m i t p O
