Our key performance indicators We will monitor delivery of our strategy and the effectiveness of our refreshed execution model using both financial and non-financial KPIs.
Strategic driver: Strategic driver: Simplify Innovate Simplify our business in a number of areas, including our Build on our R&D capabilities to be the leading product and corporate structure, to improve our execution capabilities.
technologies developer in our chosen markets.
Delivery of gross annual cost savings through our Operational Product launches Excellence programme To both fund growth and to deliver medium to long term margin : improvement, we are aiming to simplify our business in a number of areas including product range, packaging and supply chain, as well as corporate structure.
As part of this aim, we have implemented an Operational Excellence programme, targeting $120m in gross : annual cost savings by 2023, which will be partially offset by price mix, inflation and increased depreciation.
This programme includes actions across a range of activities and functions, following several key themes: : Sourcing including improving purchasing strategies and reviewing AWC Ostomy Care CCC Infusion Devices make versus buy decisions.
Supply Chain optimising supplier relationships and freight During 2018 we launched 11 new products.
AWC launched five new distribution spend.
products including our Avelle NPWT System and AQUACEL Ag Manufacturing driving LEAN benefits in production, improving Advantage in the US market.
CCC and Ostomy Care launched four overall equipment effectiveness and automating manufacturing, and two new products respectively.
There were no new product where appropriate.
launches in Infusion Devices during the year.
As explained on page Footprint considering move automate replace decisions and 30, through implementation of our refreshed execution model, we site consolidations.
will improve our launch processes to ensure that our R&D capabilities Simplicity rationalising the number of product codes and are effectively balanced with strategic planning, effective standardising, where appropriate.
Link to risk Number of new product development programmes 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11 1 Concept Development At or nearing launch 1.
Including product expansions into new geographies and or new indications.
Details of our new product development pipeline are shown above.
Compared to our 2017 pipeline our 2018 concept and development categories contain significantly fewer products.
As explained on page 30, through implementation of our refreshed execution model, we will strengthen our pipeline and improve our development Key to risks see pages 36 to 43 processes.
Change and transformation Link to risk 2.
Attract, engage and retain leadership talent 3.
Global Operational and Supply Chain 6.
Product Innovation and Intellectual Property IP 7.
Macroeconomic and foreign exchange FX 11.
Quality and Regulatory 32 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Strategic drivers: Segment and Invest Focus on products and geographies with potential for sustainable profitable growth.
Invest in our infrastructure to improve our execution capabilities.
Implement an efficiency programme to fund these investments.
1 2 Group revenue growth $ Adjusted EBIT margin %, m.. -.
m... At constant currency, revenue grew 2.7% to $1,832m, and 0.2% Adjusted EBIT margin fell by 2.5% to 23.4%, due to a combination of organically.
AWC organic revenues grew 0.2% with our AQUACEL factors.
Increased investment in commercial initiatives, the internal Foam and anti-biofilm silver dressings performing well, offset by infrastructure and capability of the business and negative sales mix challenges in our older DuoDERM and base AQUACEL dressings, were the main drivers of lower adjusted EBIT margin, along with as a result of the supply constraints of 2017 and challenging market lower than expected revenues.
dynamics, most notably in the UK.
Performance in the US continued to be below expectations, driven primarily by weak sales of surgical Link to risk 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 cover dressing and disappointing progress on the wound acceleration plan.
Ostomy Care organic revenue declined 0.5% primarily driven by lost patients, a result of the supply constraints in the second half of 2017.
We also saw some weakness in the US retail channel and the recent trend in new patient capture rates in US hospitals.
However, we delivered good results in both Latin America and certain markets in Asia Pacific and Europe.
There were encouraging results from our recent product launches such as Esteem Flex Convex.
At constant currency, CCC revenue grew 15.2% 4.1% organic, with a strong performance from HDG in the US being partially offset by continuing planned product rationalisation and the impact of the packaging recall in the second half of 2018, which together negatively impacted revenue by c. $6 million.
Infusion Devices organic revenue fell by 3.5%, with good underlying growth offset by significantly reduced orders in the fourth quarter, due to an unexpected change in inventory policy by our largest customer.
Revenue growth is stated at constant currency.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report and Accounts, including the adjusted performance measure above, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted performance measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 66 to 71.
33 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
