OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report on the aairs of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Taken together, the Strategic report on pages 5 to 71 and this Directors report fulfil the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to provide a management report.
Information incorporated by reference The following information is provided in other sections of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference.
Information Section where provided Page Corporate governance Corporate governance statements 75 Nomination, Audit and Risk Committee reports 86 to 98 Post balance sheet events Financial Statements Note 29 171 Likely future developments and research and development activities Strategic report 5 to 71 Preparation and disclosure of Financial Statements and Annual Report Directors responsibilities statement 123 Use of financial instruments Financial Statements Note 27 168 Shares held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust Financial Statements Note 23 161 Board membership and biographical details Corporate Governance report 80 and 81 Related party transactions Financial Statements Note 28 171 Employee engagement Strategic report 21 Greenhouse emissions Strategic report 27 Relationships with capital providers and other stakeholders Governance section 99 Non-financial information statement The Group has complied with the requirements of s414CB of the Companies Act 2006 by including certain non-financial information within the Strategic report.
This can be found as follows: The Groups business model is on page 16.
Information regarding the following matters, including policies, the due diligence process implemented in pursuance of the policies and outcomes of those policies, can be found on the following pages: Environmental matters on page 27.
Employees and social matters on pages 19 to 25.
Respect for human rights on page 19.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters on page 19.
Where principal risks have been identified in relation to any of the matters listed above, these can be found on pages 36 to 43, including a description of the business relationships, products and services which are likely to cause adverse impacts in those areas of risk, and a description of how the principal risks are managed.
All key performance indicators of the Group, including those non-financial indicators, are on page 32 and 33.
The Chief Executive Officers review on pages 8 to 11, the Operational review on pages 46 to 55 and the Financial review on pages 59 to 71 include, where appropriate, references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included in the Groups Financial Statements.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the Directors, as at the date of this Annual Report, confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Branches of the Company There are no branches of the Company.
Dividends 1 We are targeting a payout ratio of between 35% and 45% of adjusted net profit over time and it is our intention to pay an interim and a final dividend in respect of each financial year in the approximate proportions of one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of the annual total dividend.
We may periodically reassess this policy to reflect, among other things, our growth prospects, capital efficiency and the profitability of the Group, whilst also maintaining appropriate levels of dividend cover.
Any decision to declare and pay dividends will be made at the discretion of the Directors and will depend on, among other things, applicable law, regulation, restrictions, the Groups financial position, working capital requirements, restrictions on dividends in the Groups banking facilities, finance costs, general economic conditions and other factors the Directors deem significant.
During the year, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 1.717 cents per share on 12 October 2018.
A scrip dividend alternative was oered in respect of the interim dividend allowing shareholders to elect by 21 September 2018 to receive their dividend in the form of new ordinary shares.
On 12 October 2018, 4,681,820 ordinary shares of 10p each were allotted and issued by the Company to those shareholders who elected to receive the scrip dividend alternative.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 3.983 cents per share 2017: 4.300 cents which, together with the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 5.700 cents per share 2017: 5.700 cents.
The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be paid on 16 May 2019 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report and Accounts including adjusted net profit, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 66 to 71.
119 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report continued Capital structure Share capital As at 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 1,966,155,724 ordinary shares of 10p each.
Further details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had only one class of share consisting of ordinary shares of 10p each.
Acquisition of Companys own shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 10 May 2018, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares at a maximum price per share at the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of middle market quotations of the price of shares for the five business days prior to the date of purchase: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid at the time of purchase.
This authority expires at the date of the Companys 2019 AGM and the Company will seek its renewal at the AGM.
It is confirmed that no acquisition of the Companys own shares have been made under such authority.
Shareholders rights The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding.
Subject to applicable law and the Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting, attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy, and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Restrictions on voting There are no specific restrictions on voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on shares after request, or the shareholder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
Currently all issued ordinary shares are fully paid.
There are no agreements between holders of securities in the Company that are known to the Company and may result in restrictions on transfer or on voting rights.
Restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares The transfer of ordinary shares is governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable legislation.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares other than: i as set out in the Articles of Association: and ii certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain officers and employees of the Company require approval to deal in the ordinary shares in accordance with the Companys share dealing policies and the Market Abuse Regulation.
Directors appointment, replacement and powers The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Boards terms of reference, which can be found at www.
Significant agreements There are a number of other agreements that take eect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Group and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Directors indemnities The Group has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary provides ongoing support to the Board in relation to corporate governance issues and compliance with the Listing Rules.
She is responsible for establishing, implementing and monitoring the corporate governance framework, attending all Board and committee meetings, advising on eective Board processes, advising on Directors statutory duties, disclosure obligations and requirements under the Listing Rules, and working in conjunction with investor relations and corporate aairs regarding dialogue with investors.
Political donations No political donations, including to non-EU political parties, were made during the period.
Information about the Groups lobbying and charitable activities is included in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website at www.
120 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Substantial shareholdings At 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
of ordinary shares voting rights Nature of holding Novo Holdings A S 395,318,793 20.25% Direct holding GIC Private Limited 178,776,118 9.1593% Direct Black Rock, Inc Indirect holding Financial 109,419,135 5.57% instruments Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 98,980,658 4.98% Indirect holding Pelham Capital Direct holding Financial 97,850,000 5.01% instruments The Capital Group Companies, Inc 97,418,767 4.9911% Indirect holding During the period between 31 December 2018 and 14 February 2019, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report, the Company received the following notifications under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of ordinary shares voting rights Nature of holding GIC Private Limited 176,899,232 8.9972% Direct holding Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Novo Holdings A S Novo became a significant shareholder on 31 March 2017 and the Company entered a relationship agreement with Novo on such date as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
Given its significant investment in the Company, Novo is entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as they and their associates are entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
In the financial period to 31 December 2018 and also from 31 December 2018 to 14 February 2019, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report, the Company has complied with the independence provisions of the relationship agreement, and so far as the Company is aware, Novo and their associates also complied with the independence provisions.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of sta becoming disabled every eort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Diversity The Group considers a diverse workforce as critical to its success.
Information about the Groups initiatives to achieve diversity across the business, including specific objectives, are contained on page 20 and in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, which is available on our website at www.
Employee share schemes In addition to the discretionary share schemes operated as part of the Groups long-term incentives, detailed in the Remuneration report on pages 102 to 118, the Group operates an all employee share scheme globally.
The Directors believe that such a scheme is a benefit to the Group as it facilitates the ability for all employees to purchase shares in the Company, thus enabling them to benefit directly from the anticipated growth and success of the Group in the future.
The Executive Directors may participate in the UK all-employee share scheme, an HMRC approved savings-related share option plan, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the Group at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
Shares acquired through the Groups share plans rank pari passu with existing ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights with regards to voting, rights to dividend, control of the Company or otherwise.
All of the Groups employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards granted to employees under the Groups share plans may vest and become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
121 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report continued Listing Rules compliance with LR 9.8.
4R The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations.
There are no other disclosures required under this LR.
Section Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4R Location 1 Interest capitalised Group Financial Statements, Note 3 on page 143 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Committee report, pages 102 to 118 14 Confirmation of relationship agreement Directors report, page 121 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at Reading Town Hall, Blagrave Street, Reading, Berkshire RG1 1QH, on 9 May 2019 at 11am.
Notice of the meeting, containing details of the resolutions to be put to the meeting, will be available on the Groups website at www.
Clare Bates Company Secretary 14 February 2019 ConvaTec Group Plc is registered in England No.
10361298 122 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
