Viability statement The Groups future prospects and viability The key assumptions considered in the strategic plan, on which this An understanding of the Groups strategy, and particularly its viability assessment is based include: refreshed execution model pages 28 to 31, and its business model Our markets remain structurally sound and continue to grow at pages 16 and 17 is central in allowing the Board to assess the existing levels with no significant change to re-imbursement Groups prospects and viability.
The principal risks affecting environments.
the Company pages 36 to 43 are central to the determination Margin improvement is driven by successful execution of our of the Groups strategy.
operational excellence programmes in order to deliver productivity gains in excess of pricing and other headwinds.
Assessment of Future Prospects Through the execution of our strategy we simplify our business The Groups normal annual planning process consists of monthly and re-invest in future innovation.
monitoring of progress against the financial budget and key No change in capital structure with the Group able to refinance objectives for the current year by the Executive Committee and the term debt and its revolving-credit facility over the next three years.
Board, reforecasting throughout the year in respect of the expected Continued adherence to dividend policy.
outcome for the current year, preparing a detailed budget for the following year and updating a rolling five-year strategic plan, which Viability Assessment forms the main basis on which to assess the longer-term prospects Throughout the year, the Board has undertaken a robust of the Group.
However, the 2018 annual corporate planning process has assessment of the principal risks affecting the Group, particularly been enhanced during the past four months to address the response those that could threaten the business model and the Groups required by the Board and Company to the very disappointing Group viability over an extended period, including an assessment of the performance in 2018, primarily due to poor execution.
These risks and the actions being taken to manage or mitigate these risks are explained in detail on Since his appointment as the Groups Interim CEO in October 2018, pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report.
This analysis has then been Rick Anderson, with all members of the Executive Committee, has applied to allow the Board to assess the ability of the Group to undertaken an extensive review of all aspects of our business, continue in operation and meet its obligations.
The assessment resulting in a Board approved detailed operational plan and refreshed covers the three-year period from January 2019 to December 2021 execution model to deliver better financial results over the medium the Viability Period.
Although the Directors have no reason to to long term details are set out on pages 28 to 31.
The Board believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the subsequently approved the resulting revised five-year strategic plan Board has chosen to conduct the assessment for this three-year in January 2019 and the 2019 budget in February 2019, both of period because: which forecast the Groups profitability, cash flows and funding A large proportion of Group debt matures in October 2021. requirements for the relevant period.
Significant investments being made over the next two to three years under the refreshed execution model to deliver better The current strategic plan has been developed from each of our four financial results over the medium to long term.
franchises and also three geographic regions, supplemented by items Our R&D and production cycles.
managed at a Group level and assumptions such as macro-economic Ability to respond in a timely manner to reasonably possible Group activity, sector market growth forecasts and exchange rates.
This has specific and market events.
then been supplemented by the CEOs and Executive Committees Implicitly it is harder to accurately forecast the latter years of the plans for improving the operational effectiveness and execution of five-year plan.
all elements of the Group and the implications of the refreshed operating model, particularly the four key strategic drivers.
The viability assessment has consisted of stress testing the forecasts underlying the strategic plan by modelling severe but Key factors affecting the Boards view of Groups prospects over plausible scenarios in which a number of the Groups principal risks the period of the viability assessment and the longer term are: and uncertainties materialise within the Viability Period.
We have The fundamentals of our markets, our products and brands modelled scenarios which group together principal risks where we remain sound, as does our strategy of leveraging our product believe interdependencies exist between risks, in addition to portfolio for growth in attractive segments and geographies, scenarios where unconnected risks occur simultaneously.
These developing and commercialising new technologies and services scenarios focused on both external factors, such as the possible and striving to reduce complexity and increase efficiency.
impact of Brexit, economic recession in some markets leading to Our refreshed execution model is better able to capitalise on the material pricing pressure and lower than expected market growth, Groups core strengths: leading positions in large, structurally and internal factors, such as the refreshed execution model growing markets: strong brands and a range of differentiated delivering less than expected and the efficiency programme products: a well-diversified business platform across a range of failing to release the savings anticipated.
market segments and geographies: and cash generation capabilities.
Individual and combined scenarios were reviewed against the The four key strategic drivers that will support the delivery of the current and projected liquidity and funding position.
These tests strategy, which are set out on pages 28 to 31. enabled the Board to conclude on the Groups viability.
The scenarios and sensitivity testing have been based upon the current Board-approved strategic plan and balance sheet together with the assumption that the existing finance facilities maturing in October 2021 will be refinanced on similar terms within the Viability Period.
44 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 The sensitivity analysis included the following potential scenarios: Viability statement The results of the sensitivity analysis, including a plausible combination of the individual scenarios and assuming a successful Scenarios Linkage to risks on page 36 to 43 refinancing by October 2021, demonstrated that due to the Groups Appreciation of the US dollar by Macroeconomic and foreign level of cash generation and existing financing facilities, and the 20% against all other currencies exchange timing of the peak cash outflows, it would be able to withstand the Impacts of a global change in Brexit impact in each case.
Impact of commercial execution Pricing and reimbursement Having assessed the Groups principal risks and the consolidated headwinds leading to flat Product Innovation and Intellectual financial impact of the sensitivity analysis and associated mitigating revenue growth.
Includes Property IP plausible combinations of: Global Operational and Supply Chain actions, as described in detail for each principal risk on pages 36 to Pricing pressures.
Information security 43, the Board has determined that it has a reasonable expectation Lower uptake of new products.
Quality and Regulatory that the Group will be able to continue to operate within its existing Production shortages e. g. due Brexit bank covenants and meet its liabilities over the Viability Period to to cyber-attack or other Change and transformation December 2021. unexpected shutdowns.
Potential impacts from Brexit The Groups Going Concern statement is detailed on page 75. e. g. border delays.
Reduced cost out benefits fail to Global Operational and Supply Chain The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on offset gross margin headwinds Change and transformation 14 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Operational excellence Brexit programmes fail to deliver anticipated savings e. g. efficiency and material pricing projects are not realised.
Increased costs associated with Brexit from increased border controls and tariffs.
Rick Anderson Capital overspend Change and transformation Chief Executive Officer Overruns associated with Global Operational and Supply refreshed execution model and Chain efficiency programmes.
Increased cost to mitigate Global Operational and Supply Chain risk.
Consideration was also given to a number of other individual risks and events.
In the Boards estimation these events would not plausibly occur to a level of materiality that, in themselves, would endanger the Groups viability.
The individual and combined scenario took no account of the likely Frank Schulkes mitigating actions available to the Directors through adjustments to Chief Financial Officer the refreshed execution model and other means in the normal course of business.
However they did take account of the impact of changes in performance on returns to shareholders, matching our current dividend pay-out level.
This assessment was informed by managements and the Boards combined judgements as to the potential financial particularly cash impact of these risks if they materialise, together with their likelihood of occurrence.
45 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
