Our strategy Our strategy is designed to drive sales and earnings momentum by better capitalising on our core strengths including our leading positions in large structurally-growing markets and our differentiated product portfolio.
This strategy is sound, however we have failed to execute it effectively.
Following an extensive review we have developed Pivot to Growth, our refreshed execution model, to improve our operational performance and drive higher revenue growth and profitability.
Our refreshed execution model is focused on four strategic drivers: Simplify, Innovate, Segment and Invest.
Our Purpose Our Purpose is to improve the lives of the people we touch.
We do that by designing, manufacturing and selling products and services that give people confidence, freedom and mobility, enabling them to live the lives they want.
By delivering value for our customers, we deliver value for shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
Our goal Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable growth and long-term value for all stakeholders.
We will do that by implementing our refreshed execution model, which is focused on the four strategic drivers highlighted below.
Further information about these drivers is included on pages 29 to 31.
Our strategic drivers Our four strategic drivers are aimed at enhancing key aspects of our business: our product and service offering, our competitive market positions, the geographies in which we operate and how we run our business.
If our products and services offer our customers the best outcomes we will grow our market positions and our sales.
By running our business in the most efficient way we will ensure that our growth is profitable.
Simplify Profitable Invest Innovate growth Segment 28 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Our strategic drivers Overview Overview Simplify our business in a number of areas, Build on our R&D capabilities to be the including our corporate structure, to leading product and technologies improve our execution capabilities.
developer in our chosen markets.
Simplify Innovate Relevant KPI Relevant KPIs Delivery of gross annual cost savings Product launches through operational excellence Number of new product development programme programmes Link to risk Link to risk 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11 3, 6, 7, 11 Since our Listing in 2016, simplifying our business to reduce As explained on page 22, we have not harnessed our R&D complexity, increase efficiency and drive cost savings has been capabilities effectively.
Our ambition is to become the leading a key focus.
However, the various initiatives launched to achieve product and technologies developer in our chosen markets.
these ambitions have been executed with limited success.
We To achieve this ambition and deliver profitable growth, we must continue to believe that there are significant opportunities to strengthen our product pipeline and make our new product improve the way we run our business.
Read about how we plan development and launch processes more effective.
Read about to better harness these opportunities on page 30. how we plan to enhance our R&D capabilities, strengthen our product pipeline and improve our development and launch processes on page 30.
Overview Overview Focus on products and geographies with Invest in our infrastructure to improve potential for sustainable profitable growth.
Implement an efficiency programme to fund these Segment Invest investments.
Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs Group revenue growth Group revenue growth Adjusted EBIT margin Adjusted EBIT margin Link to risk Link to risk 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 We have not approached markets in a targeted way, and not Since our Listing we have made investments across our business effectively sold the differentiated nature of our products to to enhance our productivity.
To support future growth and command a price premium.
We have too often focused on topline profitability we will continue to invest to strengthen our growth at the expense of price and margin.
In the future we will operational and commercial execution.
To partially fund these focus on premium markets, segments and geographies that have investments we will implement cost out and efficiency the potential to deliver the most profitable returns.
Read about our growth enabling investments about our refreshed market approach on page 30. and our efficiency programme on page 31.
Attract, engage and retain leadership talent 3.
Global Operational and Supply Chain 6.
Product Innovation and Intellectual Property IP 7.
Macroeconomic and foreign exchange FX 11.
Quality and Regulatory 29 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our strategy continued Our refreshed execution model focuses on four drivers.
Simplify Innovate How we will improve our execution capabilities How we will drive innovation We produce a large number of products that deliver little revenue We have been late to market with a number of recent products, and or profit.
We have made some progress in product such as Avelle and our next generation catheters, with the rationalisation in CCC but further opportunities remain across the success of in-country market launches varying from market to Group.
We will simplify our business across a number of areas market.
We have focused too heavily on internal product pipelines including product range, packaging and supply chain.
developed in-house and our new product pipeline is lower We have duplicate back-office functions across our regions and than 2017. geographies.
We are now making improvements to both our Going forward, we will build on our R&D capabilities to ensure that management information processes and forecasting capability, we are the leading technologies and product developer in our and we will take a more centralised approach through our chosen markets.
This project will deliver We will supplement our own pipelines with acquired or licensed a more efficient use of our spend through higher quality, more products and technologies.
A strong, innovative pipeline will make responsive and lower cost support functions.
the business more resilient to pricing pressure or generic incursion, We will also seek to optimise our structure to ensure we are and it will also enhance the value of the ConvaTec brand.
closer to our customers, more responsive and able to make We will upgrade our new product launch capabilities and faster decisions.
methodology by establishing a centre of excellence that will Our goal is focused franchises with leading market positions and create a template across the Group for product launches based a simpler and flatter management structure: a business services on best practice.
approach to support functions and high quality information for We will increase our investment in R&D.
decision-making and more reliable forecasting: and a clear ConvaTec way of doing business, to ensure operational excellence and consistency.
Segment How we will approach our markets We have not approached markets in a targeted way, and not effectively sold the differentiated nature of our products to command a price premium.
We have too often focused on topline growth at the expense of price and margin.
In future we will focus on premium markets, segments and geographies that have the potential to deliver the most profitable growth on a sustainable basis.
We will invest in higher growth, higher margin opportunities, rather than being distracted by smaller or less valuable ones.
This will help support pricing power longer term by reducing our exposure to commoditisation, and develop more of an end customer pull than channel push.
We will also be more disciplined on price.
We will invest in value-based clinical evidence and manage our portfolio more actively.
30 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Our evolving product portfolio Our refreshed execution model focuses on four drivers.
Invest How we will invest for and fund growth Over the next three years we will invest in our Transformation Initiative to enhance our capability to deliver short and long-term improvements to operating performance.
Over the medium to long term we are targeting increased investment as a proportion of sales in key areas such as Sales and Distribution and, as highlighted on the previous page, R&D.
This is intended to drive higher revenue growth over time and make us more efficient, with General and Administrative costs falling as a proportion of sales.
We expect to fund these investments through cost out and efficiency programmes as part of our Transformation Initiative.
Our Transformation Initiative, which is CEO led, will implement the core principles of Pivot to Growth through four workstreams: Operational Excellence, led by Donal Balfe, Vice President Global Operations, which includes our cost out and efficiency programmes which are explained below.
Commercial Excellence, led by David Shepherd, President AWC, and Kjersti Grimsrud, President EMEA, to drive more effective product launches, improve pricing strategy and ensure that we are more focused on our customers.
Business Services Transformation, led by Frank Schulkes, CFO, which aims to deliver savings in the back office.
Portfolio Optimisation, led by Stephan Bonnelycke, President, Ostomy Care, to move our focus to high growth, high margin segments and geographies.
Developing innovative products that deliver proven The investment required for our Transformation Initiative will be outcomes around $150 million over three years, with a two to three year Our AQUACEL Ag Advantage dressing is the culmination of payback expected.
We expect around 30% of this total will be capex many years of research and collaboration with clinicians to investment, with the remaining 70% being operational spend related more effectively address the most difficult and persistent to restructuring, project management and other transformation wound management challenges.
This innovative dressing costs which will cease at the end of the three-year period.
combines two powerful technologies: our proprietary Hydrofiber Technology, which absorbs and retains wound By year three of the Transformation Initiative we will also expect to exudate and which micro-contours to the wound bed to incur $50 million of ongoing annual costs related to commercial maintain a moist wound environment to support the healing spend and R&D, building from $15 million in 2019. process and our new unique Advantage Technology.
Our Advantage Technology provides rapid and sustained Benefits will be higher revenue growth, $80 million in gross annual antimicrobial activity within the dressing, which has been cost savings by year three, increasing to $120 million gross annual shown to kill a broad spectrum of bacteria within the dressing, cost savings by 2023 and improved profit margin.
The gross cost including antibiotic resistant superbugs, and which has been benefits will be partially offset by headwinds including inflation, shown in vitro to have sustained antimicrobial activity to higher depreciation and price mix, but will also lead to improved prevent microbial reformation.
We will provide regular updates on our progress in delivering against our target for gross cost savings.
31 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
