OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders Shareholder engagement Retail and individual shareholders The Board is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with The Annual General Meeting AGM was held at Reading Town our shareholders.
Hall, Blagrave Street, Reading, Berkshire RG1 1QH, on 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
All shareholders were given an opportunity to raise Institutional shareholders issues with the Board and those shareholders unable to attend could A range of shareholder engagement activities were undertaken vote by proxy.
during the year, including meetings attended by the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, the CFO and CEO.
In particular, the Other stakeholders Chairman met with a number of our largest shareholders to As highlighted on pages 21 and 73, with effect from 1 January 2019, discuss the Groups performance and a corporate governance Regina Benjamin and Ros Rivaz will take on specific responsibility for and remuneration focused shareholder meeting took place in ensuring Board-level employee engagement.
Nomination Committee approved programme of activities which include participation in regional sales meetings, visits to the Groups In addition to the activities undertaken by the Chairman and operations and meetings with local management and participation in Non-Executive Directors during the year, a comprehensive range of the Executive Committee meetings.
Investor Relations IR activities were undertaken by the Executive Directors, IR team and relevant members of the senior management The Company Secretary is a sponsor member of the All Party team.
Some of the key IR activities are detailed in the table below.
Parliamentary Corporate Governance Group and in that capacity participates in governance-related discussions with policy makers.
Event Locations Over 20 days spent on Investor London, New York, As highlighted on page 73 we are putting in place channels and roadshows Boston, Chicago, Paris, processes to enable the Board to engage effectively with our other Edinburgh and other stakeholders, including our customers and suppliers.
We will provide regional UK Manchester, further information about our expanded Board engagement Liverpool and Bristol programme in our 2019 Annual Report.
Attended Investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs and UBS London Hosted Investors at ConvaTecs R&D facility Deeside, UK Individual Investor meetings in person or by phone throughout the year London, Reading We hosted full and half-year results presentations, to which analysts and institutional investors were invited to attend.
Both presentations were webcast and transcripts were made available.
We also hosted trading update conference calls, to which analysts and institutional investors were invited to attend, and made transcripts available.
The Board receives analysts notes published about the Group and the sector, and is regularly updated by the Groups brokers, Executive Directors and Vice President, Investor Relations on shareholder sentiment, feedback from meetings and the Groups IR programme.
99 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
