Our investment case Focused on delivering sustainable profitable growth in the medium to long term.
Leading market positions in large and Research and development R&D structurally growing chronic care markets capabilities Our chronic care marketplace is: In recent years we have developed and commercialised a number Valued at c. $10 billion.
of innovative products that deliver proven outcomes.
We own Growing, on average, at 4%5% per annum over the next five an extensive IP portfolio.
See pages 22 and 23 for further years due to fundamental structural trends including ageing information about our R&D capabilities, our new product populations, increasing incidence of chronic conditions and better development pipeline and our IP portfolio.
Our refreshed execution model aims to enhance our R&D We are the leader in six key markets and have strong brands and capabilities and strengthen our innovation pipeline and development a number of market leading products.
See page 12 for further processes.
See page 30 for information about how we will deploy information about our market positions.
our R&D capabilities more effectively to drive our strategy.
Our refreshed execution model is focused on capitalising on our market leadership positions and opportunities in the growing chronic care marketplace.
Diversified, balanced business with strong Focused on delivering sustainable brands and differentiated products profitable growth Our differentiated products and technologies portfolio addresses The objective of our refreshed execution model is to better a wide range of increasingly prevalent chronic conditions.
capitalise on our core strengths and market opportunities, to deliver sustainable profitable growth and long-term value for all stakeholders.
Our product portfolio includes market-leading brands such as See pages 28 to 31 for further information about our strategy and AQUACEL, Avelle, Esteem, Natura, GentleCath, Flexi-Seal our refreshed execution model.
We are a cash-generative business, with an adjusted cash 1 We operate globally across all key geographies, either with a direct conversion rate of 81%.
presence or through distribution partnerships.
Establishing trust with our stakeholders and with broader society In line with our refreshed execution model we will focus on premium is key to our long-term success.
This means that we must act with markets, segments and geographies to deliver the most profitable integrity and behave responsibly at all times.
Adjusted cash conversion is reconciled on page 71.
04 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
