Our business model At the heart of everything we do is our Purpose to improve the lives of the people we touch.
We run our business to fulfil this Purpose and create value for all our stakeholders.
Our values-led, performancedriven culture Earning trust, behaving responsibly with integrity and executing effectively underpin our ability to deliver long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Read more about how we will improve our performance culture and our execution capabilities on pages 19, 30 and 31.
Create We create value by managing and Our 9,400 employees developing our key resources and Our skilled and dedicated people.
relationships in a responsible way, to build trust and a platform for Innovation and IP $49.9 million sustainable growth.
invested in R&D in 2018 Our R&D capabilities and diverse Read more about how we do this on product portfolio which includes pages 18 to 27. market-leading brands.
Optimise Stakeholder relationships We aim to optimise value by focusing In addition to our people, relationships on four strategic drivers.
with a range of other stakeholders including our customers, healthcare professionals, suppliers, distributors and the communities where we operate.
Simplify Innovate Segment Invest The resources Read more about our stakeholders on How we page 24.
Read more about our strategy on pages and relationships create, optimise, 28 to 31. we need to Dedicated sales teams and extensive monitor and distribution network covering over Monitor create value protect value 110 countries We monitor our performance using Our four franchises market and sell our a number of financial and non-financial products around the globe through a key performance indicators KPIs.
We have a direct presence in certain markets and an Read more about our KPIs on pages 32 extensive network of wholesalers and and 33. distributors.
Read more about our sales channels on page 26.
Protect We protect our business and its ability Manufacturing footprint and to create value by actively implementing operational processes $120 million and evolving a framework of processes annual gross cost savings by 2023 and controls to manage and mitigate Our manufacturing footprint and our the risks that could threaten our arrangements with third-party contract performance and reputation.
manufacturers give us significant operational flexibility.
Our refreshed Read more about how we manage our execution model is focused on embedding risks on pages 34 to 43. simplified, standardised and efficient operating practices.
Financial resources $352 million net cash flow generated from operating activities We generate significant free cash flow and have access to capital through our shareholder base and other providers of capital and debt.
16 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Consumers People Our products and services give people living We offer our employees training and with chronic conditions greater confidence, development opportunities in a positive work mobility and freedom.
For more information environment which encourages high about how our products help consumers read engagement.
Read about our 2018 employee the case studies on pages 51, 53 and 55. engagement survey on page 21 and in our CR Report which is available on our website at www.
Shareholders Healthcare providers We generate returns for investors.
We provide value-add solutions and support and advice that help healthcare providers deliver better outcomes in a cost effective way.
An example of how we do this is included on $111.9m page 15.
Dividends paid and proposed for the year ended 31 December 2018 The value we generate for our stakeholders People living with chronic conditions and Society the medical profession We create socio-economic benefits for a range We increase awareness and understanding of stakeholders including generating income for of certain chronic conditions through our governments through our tax payments and engagement programmes and our R&D providing employment across our supply chain capabilities, which advance clinical outcomes and in the communities where we operate.
Read more about our R&D capabilities on pages 22 and 23.
Read about our LIFE by ConvaTec community programme on page 25 and in our CR Report which is available on our website at www.
$35.8m Income taxes paid Meeting our customers needs During 2018 sales in the US have been particularly strong In 2017 we launched our GentleCath Glide intermittent and customer feedback continues to be very positive.
catheter, with our innovative FeelClean Technology, which was developed to make catheterisation simpler and more The reason I called was to tell you that my life is much convenient.
The product has been very well received and is happier with the new GentleCath Glide catheter.
It is now available in over 20 countries.
Garith Fox 17 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
