Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Countryside Properties PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 30 September 2018. becast on all or substantially all matters at The Directors Report comprises pages 76 to 78 of this Annual Report, in addition to the sections general meetings of a company.
4D incorporated by reference, including the Board biographies, the Corporate Governance Report, requires that the agreement must contain the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors undertakings that: Remuneration Report.
a transactions and arrangements with the In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information controlling shareholder and or any of its to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR9.8.
4, is set out associates will be conducted at arms length inthis Directors Report.
and on normal commercial terms: b neither the contr olling shareholder nor any Further Board changes, as announced by the General information of its associates will take any action that Company on 1 October 2018, are described would prevent the listed company from Countryside Properties PLC is a public limited on pages 48 to 53 of the Corporate complying with its obligations under the company, listed on the Main Market of the Governance Report.
Listing Rules: and London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The registered address For more details on the members of the Board, c neither the contr olling shareholder nor any ofthe Company is Countryside House, see pages 44 and 45.
The Corporate Governance of its associates will propose or procure the TheDrive, Brentwood, Essex CM13 3AT.
Report on pages 48 to 53 gives more information proposal of a shareholder resolution which TheCompany acts as the holding company on how the Board functioned during the year.
is intended or appears to be intended to and ultimate parent for the Group.
More circumvent the proper application of the information on the Company, its financial Listing Rules.
Directors interests position and its financial statements can be The Directors interests in the shares and share The Board confirms that, in accordance with found on pages 124 to 128. options of the Company are shown on page 72 the Listing Rules, on 29 January 2016, the of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Company entered into such an agreement the Principal activities and Relationship Agreement with, among others, StrategicReport Significant contractual agreements OCM Luxembourg Coppice Topco S. R. L. Countryside is a UK homebuilder and urban 1 and various Oaktree funds together, the The Strategic Report describes the most regeneration partner, operating in locations across Oaktree Shareholders.
At the time, these important customer and supplier contracts outer London, the South East, the North West had a combined total holding of approximately andother arrangements essential to the Group.
We operate through 56 per cent of the Companys voting rights.
We do not consider ourselves to be dependent two divisions: Housebuilding and Partnerships.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, on a single key supplier.
Countryside entered into OurStrategic Report on pages 2 to 41 sets the Oaktree Shareholders agreed to the a 300m revolving credit facility on 12 May 2016, outdetailed information on the Group and its independence obligations contained in the expiring in May 2021.
The credit facility contained strategy, its principal activities, the operation of the Relationship Agreement.
two options to extend the term on the first and businesses, and the results and financial position for second anniversaries.
Both one year options have On 1 December 2017, we announced that the year ended 30 September 2018.
Information now been exercised and so the credit facility theOaktree Shareholders had sold shares in on the principal risks and uncertainties facing has been extended to May 2023. the Company, reducing their combined total the Group, trends and economic factors shareholding to approximately 8 per cent of impacting the business and likely future Relationship Agreement the Companys voting rights.
Consequently, developments can also be found in the withcontrolling shareholders theOaktree Shareholders nolonger retained Strategic Report.
the right to appoint any Non-Executive Directors Where a listed company has a controlling tothe Board of theCompany and Federico shareholder, it is required to have in place at all Board changes Canciani resigned from the Board.
Hislast times a written and legally binding agreement Following the reduction of the Oaktree dayof service was on 5December 2017. to ensure that the controlling shareholder Shareholders shareholding in the Company to TheRelationship Agreement terminated on complies with the independence provisions set below 25 per cent, announced on 1 December 24April 2018, when Oaktree completed out in LR 6.1.
A controlling shareholder 2017, Federico Canciani, a Non-Executive Director thesale of the remaining shares they held is defined as any person who exercises or appointed to the Board by Oaktree Shareholders, inCountryside.
controls on their own, or together with any resigned in accordance with the terms of the person with whom they are acting in concert, 1.
The Oaktree funds were: Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb, L. P. Relationship Agreement described below.
His last 30 per cent or more of the votes able to Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb Parallel, L. P. Oaktree day of service as a Non-Executive Director was on Opportunities Fund IX, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX 5 December 2017.
Richard Adam stepped down Parallel, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX Parallel 2, L. P. from the Board on 31 December 2017 as set out Oaktree European Principal Fund III, L. P. and Oaktree European in the announcement on 2 October 2017 and he Principal Fund III Parallel, L. P. was replaced by Douglas Hurt, who joined the Board on 1 January 2018 as a Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director, Chairman ofthe Audit Committee and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
76 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance The Board confirms that whilst the Substantial shareholdings  remained in force until1 December 2017: At 20 November 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Company has been notified of the following interests amounting to 3 per cent or i the Compan y complied with the more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: independence provisions included in Interest in Countryside theRelationship Agreement: and ii so far as the Company is aware, the Standard Life Aberdeen 15.19% Oaktree Shareholders and their associates Woodford Investment Management Ltd 14.60% complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement.
Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd 10.93% As there have been no controlling shareholders M&G Investment Management Ltd 7.26% of the Company other than the Oaktree Ruffer LLP 6.00% Shareholders, there has been no need for the Relationship Agreement to require the Oaktree BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 4.86% Shareholders to procure compliance by any Kames Capital 3.47% third parties with the independence provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
The Vanguard Group Inc. 3.25% Significant agreements changeof control The Groups policy is to offer appropriate Policy on financial instruments Upon a change of control of Countryside training and career development to disabled The policy on financial instruments is covered Properties, a number of significant agreements persons that are, as far as possible, identical to inthe accounting policy Note 3 to the take effect, alter or terminate as follows: other employees and in line with best practice.
The Notes to the financial In the event of a member of staff becoming Revolving credit facility: Under the terms of statements include: the Companys policies and disabled, the Group makes every effort to the 300m revolving credit facility, entered processes for managing its capital: its financial continue employment, arrange appropriate into on 12 May 2016, extended in maturity risk management objectives: details of its retraining and offer opportunities for promotion.
until May 2023 on 19 June 2018 and provided financial instruments and hedging activities: and For more information on our diversity statistics, by a syndicate of banks to Countryside itsexposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
please refer to the Our People section on page 32.
Properties, the lenders may, following such change in control, elect tocontinue to provide Independent auditor such facility, or alternatively cancel it and Employee involvement The Board is satisfied that require all monies borrowed under such The Group systematically provides employees  LLP PwC facility to be repaid.
with information on matters of concern to remained independent for the purpose of them, consulting them or their representatives the2018 audit.
Directors and employees: There are no regularly so that their views can be taken agreements between the Company and intoaccount when the Group makes decisions itsDirectors or employees providing Corporate governance likely to affect their interests.
We encourage forcompensation for loss of ofce or A report on Countrysides corporate employee involvement in the Group: a employment that occurs because of a governance framework, together with how common awareness of the financial and takeover bid or change of control.
wecomply with the principles and provisions economic factors affecting the Group on of the UK Corporate Governance Code, can thepart of all employees plays a major role Equal opportunities be found in the Corporate Governance Report inmaintaining the Groups customer-focused on page 48.
This forms part of this Directors The Group is committed to employment policies approach.
For more information on how Report and is incorporated into it by which follow best practice based on equal theGroup engages its employees, refer to cross-reference.
opportunities for all employees, irrespective page32 of this report.
For more information ofgender, race, nationality, colour, disability, onhow employees can participate in the marital status, sexual orientation, age or Political contributions Groups performance through membership religion.
All decisions relating to employment ofthe Long-Term Incentive Plan and The Group does not make political contributions.
practices are objective, free from bias and SaveAsYou Earn employee share plans, based upon work criteria and individual merit.
referto pages 121 and 122 of the report.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 77 Directors report continued Dividend Share capital Going concern The Directors recommend the payment of At the date of this report, 450,000,000 The Groups business activities, together with the afinal dividend of 6.6 pence 2017: 5.0 pence ordinary shares the same number as at factors likely to affect its future development, are per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders admission to the London Stock Exchange set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41. at the Annual General Meeting, this will be paid of0.01 each have been issued, are fully paid The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, on 8 February 2019 to those shareholders up and are admitted to trading on the London liquidity position and borrowing facilities are onthe register at the close of business Stock Exchange.
The Companys Articles of described on pages 28 to 31 of the Strategic on21December 2018.
Association, copies of which can be obtained Report.
Further disclosures regarding borrowings from the Companys website, set out the rights are provided in Note 24.
The Company will be operating a Dividend and obligations attaching to the Companys Reinvestment Plan DRIP, further details of As described in the Viability Statement, the ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the which can found on our website at investors.
Directors have assessed the prospects and viability Companys Directors.
of the Company over a three-year period to The DRIP will operate automatically in respect We provide details of employee share plans September 2021.
The Board has performed of the 2018 final dividend for those shareholders inNote 31 to the Group financial statements.
arobust assessment of the principal risks facing who have previously registered a DRIP mandate the Company, including those risks that would unless changed beforehand by shareholders.
threaten Countrysides business model, future Purchase of the Companys Itwill also operate in respect of all future dividends, performance, solvency or liquidity.
ownshares until such time as each participating shareholder At the 2018 AGM, shareholders approved a Having considered the Groups cash flow elects to withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP resolution permitting the Company to make forecasts, the Directors are satisfied the Group is suspended or terminated in accordance with purchases of its own shares up to a maximum has sufficient liquidity and covenant headroom its terms and conditions.
The Board will continue of 45,000,000 ordinary shares representing to enable theGroup to conduct its business to keep the availability of the DRIP under 10per cent of the issued share capital at and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at regular review.
This resolution remains least the next 12 months.
Accordingly these Shareholders are again reminded to check their inforce until the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
financial statements are prepared on a going position regarding any dividend mandates in The Company has made no purchases of its concern basis.
place, should they either wish to participate own shares to date.
The Directors Viability Statement is in the inthe DRIP or discontinue or change their The Company will seek to renew this authority Strategic Report on page 39. participation.
Existing mandates will apply to at the 2019 AGM.
alldividend payments unless or until revoked.
Carbon emissions The Trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Authority to allot shares We set out details of the Groups approach Trust has waived the right to receive any dividend At the 2018 AGM, shareholders approved tothe environment, including information in over the shares held by that Trust.
aresolution permitting the Directors to allot relation to its carbon emissions, in the section shares up to an aggregate nominal value of headed Environment on page 36.
This forms Power of the Directors 1,500,000.
Shareholders also approved a part of the Sustainability Report section of Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, resolution authorising the Directors to allot theAnnual Report on pages 34 to 37. the Companies Act and any directions given shares up to a further aggregate nominal bythe Company by special resolution, the amount of 1,500,000 in connection with Annual General Meeting business of the Company will be managed arights issue.
As at 20 November 2018, The 2019 Annual General Meeting of the bythe Board, which may exercise all powers theDirectors had not used these authorities, Company will be held at the offices of ofthe Company.
whichwill remain in force until the conclusion Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y of the 2019 AGM.
8HQ, at 2 pm on Thursday, 24 January 2019.
Directors indemnities The notice convening the meeting, together The Company will seek to renew this authority By means of a Deed of Indemnity entered into with details of the business to be considered at the 2019 AGM.
separately by the Company and each Director, and explanatory notes is distributed separately there is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision to shareholders.
It is also available on our website.
Statement of disclosure of as per the Companies Act 2006.
This provides, information to the auditor By order of the Board for the financial year ended 30September 2018 Each Director of the Company confirms and as at the date of this document, that the that, as far as each is aware, there is no Company may pay for Directors indemnities Gary Whitaker relevant audit information of which the out of its own assets.
The Company has obtained Company Secretary Companys auditor is unaware and that eachof directors and ofcers insurance for this purpose.
20 November 2018 the Directors has taken all the steps they ought to have taken individually as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish thatthe Companys auditors are aware of thatinformation.
78 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC
