Market trends Despite a tougher second-hand market and a slowdown among more expensive properties during 2018, the UK housing market remains strong at lowerprice points.
Countrysides commitment to offering Structural undersupply Mixed-tenure delivery ofhousing abalanced mix of tenure types, unique among The UK housing market continues Our mixed-tenure approach major housebuilders, to have high latent demand helps us deliver much needed gives usresilience against homes more quickly aslowing private for The minimum number of new homes required In recent decades, the structural undersupply salemarket.
each year to maintain the balance of supply ofhousing in England has been partly caused and demand is now estimated to be in excess bya lack of new affordable housing.
The last year in which this was hasbeen no equivalent of the large-scale local The UK market achieved was 197980.
While the supply of authority housing estates last built in the1970s, Demand for all tenures remains robust new housing continues to grow steadily, latent and the provision of social housing within private withstrong mortgage availability across demand is farfrom satisfied with net additions developments under Section 106 agreements themarket.
The extension of Help to Buy to the housing stock lagging significantly behind has not kept up with demand.
Little purpose-built to2023 provides continued support for thetotals required.
The findings of the Letwin Private Rental Sector PRS housing has been theprivate market and first time buyers.
Review in October 2018 focus on speeding constructed in recent years.
While there is increased Aslowing second hand market, particularly updelivery on large strategic sites, aligning appetite from institutional investors, there remains in the higher price point as a result of stamp wellwith our mixed-tenure model.
a structural undersupply of good-quality homes duty change and market uncertainty as a for market rent in most urban areas.
result of the Brexit vote.
Our response Our response We operate across the UK in areas of strong How we are positioned housing demand and have grown our total It is a key part of our strategic approach that Government policy supports our annual completions every year since 2012, from wetake a mixed-tenure approach on all our mixed-tenure model.
We remain the UKs only major continued geographic expansion through the human and financial resources to continue housebuilder for whom private for sale homes the Westleigh acquisition, and our move this growth in the medium term, both in our comprised less than half 46 per cent of total toautomated construction methods, existing areas of strength and newer geographies completions.
In 2018, we built 35 per cent leavesus well positioned to deliver our such as the East Midlands and Yorkshire.
Our affordable and 19 per cent PRS homes.
commitment to mixed-tenure development and Partnerships division provides a balanced mix automation drive rapid growth, and we continue ofall three tenure types, enabling rapid growth to see significant growth opportunities in both as well as business resilience.
Source: CML, Lazarus Economics & Strategy.
14 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Strategic report Government policy Labour supply Off-site construction andfuture regulation Government policy remains Tight labour supply across the Our new modular build capability supportive of housebuilding and UK means we are focused on will give us more control over mixed-tenure delivery staf retention quality and speed delivery It is Government policy to encourage additional Factors including chronic underinvestment over The industry needs to look at different building housing via initiatives like the Help to Buy the last quarter century, the impact of the 2008 methodologies if it is to deliver the growth programme and National Planning Policy financial crisis and the uncertainties created by inoutput required to meet increased demand Framework.
New schemes announced this year the Brexit vote and subsequent negotiations in the face of labour shortages.
Although the include 100m to back the Mayor of the West have led to a shortage of skilled and experienced industry still has yet fully to embrace non-traditional Midlands plan to deliver 215,000 homes and labour at all levels of the housebuilding industry.
build, several methods of off-site construction confirmation of a 1.67bn funding package for are emerging, from timberframe construction London to build affordable homes.
The Letwin to complete modular build.
The case for off-site Our response Review on overcoming obstacles to building construction continues to grow, driven bybenefits We have continued to lobby the Government concluded that build-out rates could be accelerated including build speed, enhanced quality assurance, alongside the Home Builders Federation to if housebuilders offered a greater variety of reduced waste onsite andthe opportunity to protect the status of EU construction workers homes in more distinct settings.
An independent do more with the existing workforce.
as a vital part of the UK economy.
We are also review of building regulations and fire safety, recruiting significant numbers of apprentices commissioned following the Grenfell Tower Our response andtrainees, alongside expanding our graduate tragedy, was published in May 2018. recruitment programme, to protect our business We believe that off-site construction is integral against labour-supply risks.
As well as acting to to meeting our growth plans and securing our Our response attract, develop and retain the best talent, we supply chain for the future.
We already use off-site We remain ideally placed to benefit from the are automating production of timber frame timber frame construction on 49 per cent of Governments commitment to deliver new homes panels in our Partnerships division to secure our our output, now including thatof the Westframe of all tenure types.
In 2018, 89 per cent of our supply chain and enable skilled workers to focus facility we purchased aspart of theWestleigh private homes were eligible for the Help to Buy on value-adding processes.
During 2018 and 2019, we are investing scheme, which was used on 29 per cent of our 6m in a new factory where an automated total completions across the Group.
We deliver production line will include all windows, first-fix agreater proportion of affordable housing in plumbing and electrical channels, insulation and London than any other major housebuilder.
With Wealso have an industry-leading owned or production starting in 2019, this will deliver controlled land bank within 50 miles of London, around 1,500homes a year.
85per cent of which has been strategically sourced.
We welcome the Letwin and the post-Grenfell reviews, which we believe willmake a sensible contribution to the regulatory environment.
PRS market 61 1,500 4.5m People currently undertaking Expected unit capacity from new PRS households in England  modular timber frame factory M&G Real Estate 14 100% New graduates hired in 2018 Of timber sourced from sustainable, certifiedschemes Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 15
