Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION OUR REPUTATION FOR DELIVERING OUTSTANDING QUALITY PRODUCTS MAKES US A SUPPLIER OF CHOICE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS.
WE CONTINUALLY DEVELOP AND ENHANCE OUR RECIPES AND INGREDIENTS TO PROVIDE EXCEPTIONAL FOOD TO THE CONSUMER.
During the year we launched a new range of premium pork with one of our major retail customers, delivering a significant improvement in taste and texture.
A cross functional team reviewed all the potential areas where quality improvements could be delivered.
This started with the breed and genetics of the pigs, and included a review of feed and farming methods.
We also introduced a new production process in our primary processing facility to improve the succulence of the meat.
Once product development was complete, our in-house team of chefs focused on creating clear and simple cooking instructions to ensure that consumers can replicate the same great tasting food at home.
The result is a range of premium pork that consistently delivers on taste and texture.
13 High Quality Products Number of BRC grade A ratings during the year 227 Number of supplier audits during the year 20 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 21 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS We have built excellent relationships with THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS REFLECTS OUR ONGOING COMMITMENT Performance measures 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 a number of key research providers and were TO PRODUCT QUALITY AND INNOVATION, TECHNICAL INTEGRITY, Complaints per million units sold 24 19 18 invited by Professor Chris Elliott, Director Number of direct suppliers linked to SEDEX 294 407 480 COMPLIANCE, FOOD SAFETY AND ANIMAL WELFARE.
of the Institute of Global Food Security, Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare Tier 2 Tier 1 Tier 1 to be one of a select number of industry partners to participate in the EU-China-Safe collaboration.
This project will mobilise During the year, our Hull and Norfolk primary During the year, Crowns Weybread poultry resources in Europe and China to develop a processing sites collectively processed an site processed an average of 500,000 birds The combination of our people, facilities, policies All our British pork products fully comply with suppliers are clearly laid out in our Technical cohesive partnership that will deliver a shared average of 49,000 pigs per week.
The site is a key supplier of chicken and customer focus enables us to remain the the Red Tractor Assurance Scheme and the Conditions of Supply and our audit frequency vision for food safety and authenticity and our Ballymena site has processed 10,000 to our Hull cooked poultry site and third key supplier and category champion to our British Meat Processors Association BMPA is based on risk assessment, supply chain work towards mutual recognition.
Comprising pigs per week, a 25 per cent increase since party retail and wholesale customers.
For many of our core Pork and Pork Meat Product standards.
This threat analysis, horizon scanning for known 16 participants from the EU and 17 from acquisition.
These facilities are principal transportation times from farm to processing customers we are a preferred partner on compliance gives consumers the confidence or emerging risks and previous supply record.
China, EU-China-Safe supports key research suppliers of pork to a number of our further facility are minimised, with all broiler farms technical initiatives and projects.
that our products are produced within an In the last twelve months we carried out 227 organisations working together to develop and processing businesses as well as third party within 25 miles of the processing facility.
assured supply chain to recognised best supply chain audits to assure the safety, jointly implement major advances in improving food manufacturers.
All of the chickens we process come from PRODUCT QUALITY AND INNOVATION practice standards and are traceable all the traceability, quality and provenance of the food safety and combating food fraud in the our own Red Tractor approved farms.
Our clear strategic focus on premium and way back to British Red Tractor assured farms.
raw materials we use within our business.
All three sites are strategically placed in three super-premium product categories continues of the UKs largest pig breeding and rearing The map below provides an overview to underpin the success of the business.
Compliance integrity is challenged by third In recent months the meat industry has Animal welfare regions.
Close supply chain proximity ensures of farm locations and distances travelled By working closely with our customers we party announced and unannounced audits come under increasing scrutiny, highlighted Many of the pigs supplied to us are reared that animal transportation times from farm to by pigs and chickens from those farms develop premium products to meet the which incorporate traceability, mass balance by the well documented issues at a number of to higher welfare standards associated with processing facility are minimised with resulting to our processing sites: changing demands of the UK consumer.
and isotope provenance testing to confirm UK meat processing companies.
A common outdoor bred or outdoor reared production welfare and food mile reduction benefits.
We also produce organic products that theme has been the alleged mislabelling and methods.
Approximately 30 per cent of those Consumer trends and food innovation are subject to an in-depth annual traceability date coding of meat.
We have fully reviewed pigs processed by our Hull primary processing Our agricultural team is working with several opportunities from all over the world are review carried out by independent auditors our labelling and date coding protocols.
facility and 70 per cent at our Norfolk facility retailer specific pig producer groups on rearing sourced and developed by our dedicated working on behalf of The Soil Association Alongside this, our policy of transparent open are reared to the exacting requirements of systems, breed development, welfare, teams.
Constantly researching and testing which is our preferred organic assurance book relationships with our customers, audit the RSPCA Freedom Foods welfare standard.
sustainability, environmental and ethical new recipes and ideas allows us to deliver partner.
bodies and the FSA, and our commitment to The balance of pigs processed are reared standards.
Projects included: exciting new food concepts to our customers food safety, provenance and integrity, gives indoors in full compliance with the Red collaborating with Bishop Burton with enhanced flavour and improved In the year under review our Group us confidence in our standards and the way Tractor BMPA Quality Assured Pork BQAP Agricultural College on animal eating quality.
Compliance team completed 716 separate we run our business.
All of our chickens are behaviour and welfare: internal compliance audits against the BRC reared indoors in full compliance with the researching links between animal Read more on page 21. standard, retailer policy, Hazard and Critical Maintaining the highest ethical standards Red Tractor welfare standards.
feed and pork eating quality: and Control Point HACCP, hygiene inspections, We monitor ethical standards with our sites developing industry best practice ENSURING TECHNICAL COMPLIANCE and ethical standards.
This compliance undergoing unannounced SEDEX Supplier The 2017 Business Benchmark on Farm Animal guidance on the use of antibiotics.
Our facilities undergo exacting technical programme not only identifies nonEthical Data Exchange Members Ethical Trade Welfare BBFAW report provides an account audits carried out by independent auditing compliance but also proactively highlights Audits SMETA every other year supported of how animal welfare is being managed by bodies, customers, government authorities best practice and allows shared learnings by our own ethical verification audits.
We leading food companies around the world.
and our own technical compliance teams.
This is a fundamental are AB buyer supplier members of SEDEX The development of the Benchmark is funded During the year we hosted 404 separate building block of the continuous improvement and currently 97 per cent of our suppliers are by Compassion in World Farming and World Preston, near Hull external compliance audits and associated programme and food safety culture that registered with SEDEX so their ethical data Animal Protection and is a global measure 35% within 25 miles technical inspections, many of which were underpins our robust technical and ethical is visible to us, enabling us to drive ethical of food businesses commitment to animal 55% within 40 miles unannounced, and we are pleased to report performance.
standards within our supply chain.
Now in its fourth year, the benchmark 66% within 50 miles that over 95 per cent of those audits were has continued to evolve and challenge the 73% within 60 miles completed to the full satisfaction of our SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY We take a leadership role within the wider industrys commitment to animal welfare.
customers and other business stakeholders.
AND TRACEABILITY industry with our Gourmet Products Technical We are therefore proud to be one of only five Norfolk All non-conformances have been closed Ensuring responsible purchasing Controller being an active member of the companies worldwide to have maintained 46% within 25 miles out through corrective actions within We are committed to ensuring the integrity BMPA Council and Chair of the technical the highest Tier 1 status, which endorses 86% within 40 miles agreed timescales.
and traceability of raw materials, including committee responsible for the development our commitment to animal welfare.
More 90% within 50 miles the meat, ingredients and packaging we use of the BMPA Pork Schemes which are the information can be found on the website: 95% within 60 miles We have elected to have our BRC Food Safety in the manufacture of our products.
775 raw assurance, traceability and product quality www.
audits carried out unannounced and currently material suppliers and 5,558 products and standards that sit behind the Red Tractor logo Ballymena of our 14 manufacturing sites 6 have achieved associated specifications are approved and displayed on pork and pork meat products.
19% within 25 miles AA, 6 have achieved A, 1 has achieved AA and controlled centrally by our Group Technical Our Group Technical Compliance Controller 43% within 40 miles 1 site has achieved B.
In addition, all our fresh Services GTS team.
Suppliers are approved represents the BMPA on the BRC working 51% within 50 miles meat processing sites are participants of the either by an independent third party audit, group responsible for the development of 76% within 60 miles BRC Voluntary Meat Module which provides such as the BRC Global Standard for Food the BRC Global Food Standard.
additional assurance on meat traceability Safety, or by audits carried out by members Weybread and supply chain management.
Our expectations of our 100% within 25 miles 22 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 23
