Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY CARBON FOOTPRINT AND GREENHOUSE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We are also a key partner of For Entrepreneurs As part of the Second Nature initiative, GAS GHG EMISSIONS As part of our ongoing commitments to Only, a community interest company which we have recently increased our commitments We measure our carbon footprint all Scope 1, sustainability, we continue to support the helps entrepreneurs of all ages to start and to reduce the amount of surplus product that Scope 2 and our significant Scope 3 emissions communities where we operate across the grow their businesses with the aim of creating is generated by the business.
Much of this is ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS and use this as the overall measurement of our UK.
As one of the largest employers in the East wealth and jobs in the Hull and Humber region.
often driven by external factors, so we have environmental performance.
Riding of Yorkshire, we have taken a proactive been working on a number of initiatives to All of our significant facilities are accredited to the ISO14001 Environmental approach to support local initiatives.
Last year, Across the Group, we support a number of redistribute food to our local communities.
We continue to perform strongly against our we were a City Partner to Hull UK City of charities which have particular relevance to site Some of our recent initiatives include purchasing long-term target of reducing our relative carbon Culture 2017 and we are also in the third year of employees and have been nominated through freezers for the Hull Food Bank and working footprint by 30 per cent by 2020 against our a partnership with the Freedom Festival, hosted a local voting system.
Charities include a mix of with organisations such as Fareshare and Waste disposal routes % Absolute carbon footprint 2010 baseline, by having a reduction of 44.5 per annually in Hull.
These events reach out to the local and national organisations such as Bluebell Community Shop to support community Tonnes CO e 2 cent against baseline.
Success continues to be 1.1 wider communities and provide opportunities Childrens Hospice, the Yorkshire Air Ambulance, organisations.
Landll 0.4 to engage the local population in cultural and Macmillan Cancer Support and Life for a Kid.
4.6 social events which raise the profile of the The girls loved visiting Cranswick 120,000 We acknowledge the requirement to disclose region.
Our association with these events In 2018, we will once again join More Together, 29.3 and being able to see the whole greenhouse gas emissions separately in the also provides opportunities for our employees a charity project which will encourage the Recycling 8.4 following categories: to take part in the events whether through entire Group to raise money for site nominated sausage making process and, of 33.9 100,000 ticket competitions, volunteering opportunities charities, along with several other businesses course, tasting their creations!
69.6 Waste Emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from: or serving Cranswick produced street food from based in the East Yorkshire region.
The project to Energy 91.2 i combustion of fuel and operation of the Hog and Beyond stall.
will encourage employees to participate in Miss Whall 61.5 80,000 facilities: and various physical challenges such as a Bounce Science Teacher, Wolfreton High School 2014 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 ii purchase of electricity, heat, steam In Norfolk, we sponsor the Porkstock Festival to Berlin trampoline challenge, the Total 2017 18 2016 17 2015 16 and cooling.
which is designed to promote the importance Warrior obstacle course and the B20 walk of local produce to East Anglia.
As part of the from Beverley Minster to the Humber Bridge.
It is impracticable for us to distinguish between event, we create an area where we showcase This is an opportunity for employees across the two categories due to the nature of our the work of our business and share employment various functions and sites to raise money for 3 Absolute energy use Absolute water use m operations.
However, the majority of emissions opportunities, both within the area and also the charitable causes together and in 2017 over kWh million come from electricity and gas, which are wider Group.
285 1,421,710 2017 18 2017 18 An important element of the events has been 2016 17 272 2016 17 1,420,809 We also recognise the significance of GHG to engage with local schools, highlighting emissions from animals.
We are working with 2015 16 198 2015 16 963,311 the breadth of opportunities within the food industry peers and the scientific community industry and educating young people on 2014 199 2014 824,942 to identify a means of reliably quantifying where their food comes from.
In 2017, a series and further understanding the impact.
Our of educational workshops were completed in partnership with Courtauld 2025 will also help six Academy schools in the area, providing a Performance in accelerate our understanding and performance business case study of how food development Performance Measures 2016 17 2017 18 Target 2018-19 in this key area.
and manufacture takes place as well as giving Relative carbon footprint Tonnes CO e Tonnes sales 0.202 0.174 reduce by 5% pupils the opportunity to have their own 2 ENERGY Energy intensity Kwh Tonnes sales 477 482 reduce by 5% products produced.
This culminated in the Our energy use and the reduction of the energy winning entries being served at the Freedom Waste to landfill Tonnes 222 173 reduce to zero footprint of our products remains a high priority.
Festival in the designated Cranswick display by 2020 We recognise that reductions in energy intensity at the show.
Water intensity cubic metres Tonnes sales 2.49 2.41 reduce by 5% bring significant financial and environmental benefits and continue to be accredited to the In addition, we work with local schools, colleges ISO50001 Energy Management standard.
and universities across all business areas and this includes industry mentoring, attendance We have continued to invest in our energy at interview workshops and raising awareness infrastructure, including 2 new CHP plants Landfill diversion remains a core priority.
We still Our sites use technology to monitor usage of the food industry at events such as the coming on line during the next financial year.
carry a small landfill burden due to our more closely and ensure our emissions do not place a Flavours Food Festival and university seminars.
rural farm locations, but this will continue to disproportionate burden on local infrastructure.
Our energy footprint has increased by 1 per be challenged.
In line with our resource usage principles, we cent during the year driven by machinery and seek out and employ efficient technologies, as product changes across several of our sites.
WATER well as running staff engagement programmes We expect that the forthcoming year will Water use in food manufacturing will always to ensure our performance remains in line show a return to efficiency savings.
be high, driven primarily by the need to provide with best-in-class benchmarks.
Our water production facilities with the highest standards performance has been significantly influenced WASTE of hygiene and its importance in many of by the poultry acquisitions, but we are pleased Our partnerships with Champions 12.3, our processes.
The need for sound water that despite this profile change we are still WRAPs Plastic Pledge and Courtauld 2025 management and control of emissions exceeding our water target 20 per cent demonstrate our commitment to making continues to rise.
We recognise that water reduction in intensity by 2020 against our real reductions in food waste and plastics is a resource with high strategic importance and 2008 baseline by a further 3.2 per cent.
so continue to use it efficiently and responsibly.
36 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 37 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRONG ORGANIC 22.4% 112.1m GROWTH AND RECORD Increase in adjusted profit before tax Net cash generated from operations CAPITAL INVESTMENT The Wayland and Wold farming businesses for the year to 31 March 2018 was 13 per cent The new 28 million facility, based at Bury New product listings over the Christmas REPORTED REVENUE GREW BY 18 PER CENT AND ADJUSTED PROFIT currently supply approximately 17 per cent of higher year-on-year reflecting a 17-month in Lancashire, is now being commissioned.
period also contributed to a strong full year BEFORE TAX GREW BY 22 PER CENT.
We are the third period of rising prices from March 2016 The site will consolidate production from performance from the pastry business.
largest pig producer in the UK and represent through to July 2017.
The average EU 28 the two existing facilities, lift capacity OPERATING REVIEW 4 per cent of the total UK pig herd.
More than reference pig price during the period was by approximately 70 per cent, add new Poultry REVENUE AND ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 90 per cent of the pigs produced from the also up 9 per cent year-on-year.
capability and drive efficiency improvements Poultry, which includes Fresh and Cooked two herds are bred outdoors, allowing us to on existing product ranges.
Transfer of all Poultry, represented 12 per cent of Group 2018 2017 Change Change 53 weeks 52 weeks Reported Like-for-like provide a complete farm-to-fork solution for Convenience production from the current facilities is revenue.
Including the 53rd week and a the premium pork ranges of our two largest Convenience, which comprises Cooked Meats expected to be completed by the end of full year contribution from Crown, revenue Revenue 1,464.5m 1,245.1m 17.6% 12.7% retail customers.
We are investing 4 million and Continental Products, represented 36 quarter one of the new financial year.
increased by 21.6 per cent, with like-for-like Adjusted Group Operating Profit 92.8m 76.1m 21.9% in our Wayland farming operation to increase per cent of Group revenue.
Total Convenience sales growing 16.8 per cent.
Adjusted Group Operating Margin 6.3% 6.1% 22 bps breeding and finishing capacity of premium revenue increased by 12.1 per cent, with Gourmet Products pigs in response to customer demand.
like-for-like revenue, excluding the benefit of Gourmet Products, which comprise Sausage, The Crown Chicken business continues to See Note 31 of the financial statements.
Productivity improvements in our outdoor the 53rd week, up 10.1 per cent.
This positive Bacon and Pastry, represented 19 per cent make progress.
The management team has herd lifted output by more than 10 per cent performance reflected the full contribution of Group revenue.
Total revenue increased been strengthened and investment has been REVENUE ahead of the overall UK fresh pork market compared to the previous year.
of new business wins in the previous financial by 22.2 per cent in the year, with like-for-like made at the Weybread primary processing Reported revenue from continuing operations which saw volumes decline by just under year.
Growth was comfortably ahead of the revenue, excluding the benefit of the 53rd facility in Norfolk to drive efficiencies and lift increased by 17.6 per cent to 1,464.5 million.
During the year we launched new The UK pig price EU-spec SPP rose steadily overall market where volumes were flat week, ahead by 20.2 per cent.
More birds are being portioned added value summer ranges and developed during the early part of the year, exceeding year-on-year.
delivered strong double-digit volume growth due to new contracts secured and closer Like-for-like revenue, which excludes new processing techniques which have 164 pence in July before falling back through reflecting strong underlying, high single-digit, ties continue to be developed with the Hull the benefit of the 53rd week and the delivered improved texture and succulence.
the second half of the year to just over 145 Cooked Meats sales were very strong market growth of the super-premium tier of Cooked Poultry facility.
Shortly after the year contributions from Crown Chicken and the The Ballymena butchery hall extension pence by year end.
The average UK pig price reflecting the benefit of the new business each category and market share gains due end Crown secured a contract to supply fresh Ballymena pork processing business prior was completed resulting in capacity being wins referred to above.
New product to business wins and new product launches.
whole birds to one of the Groups strategic to the anniversary of their acquisition, was increased from 8,000 to 12,000 pigs per week.
launches in the fast growing Ready to Cook retail customers.
Although the volume of 12.7 per cent higher, with corresponding Just over 59,000 pigs per week were processed and Slow Cook ranges also helped underpin Strong Sausage sales growth reflected the business is initially modest it represents an volumes ahead by 7.7 per cent.
Each of through our three facilities.
A new Deboflex the strong growth in this category.
A further contribution from the new Butchers Choice important milestone in Crowns evolution our categories delivered positive volume shoulder deboning line was commissioned at 11 million of capital investment was made business launched with one of our largest and complements the chicken which Crown growth, ahead of overall category market the Hull facility during the year and this line, across the three Cooked Meats facilities retail customers mid-way through the supplies to our Cooked Poultry business to performance.
Stronger pricing during the first which is the first of its type to be installed in during the year.
Working closely with our previous financial year together with other service the same customer.
half reflected partial recovery of higher input the UK, is performing well.
Further investment key retail customers, we continue to develop new business wins launched in summer costs compared to those experienced in the is being made at the Hull facility to lift pig our ingredients ranges.
The peak Christmas trading period Plans for the new primary processing facility same period last year.
Input costs eased chill capacity and to upgrade the rapid chill sales through business to business and was especially busy for the Hull and Norfolk at Eye in Suffolk are being rapidly developed.
in the second half of the year, with this system to improve yields.
The lairage is also manufacturing channels, particularly facilities, with two additional production Planning approval for the site was confirmed downward trend reflected in selling prices.
Both projects with ready meals, pizza and sandwich lines installed at the Hull Fresh Pork facility shortly after the year end and work at the site are due to complete in the second quarter of manufacturers.
to accommodate the strong seasonal spike is due to start shortly.
This world class facility, ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT the current financial year.
which is scheduled for completion in late Adjusted Group operating profit increased by Sales of Continental Products were 4.1 per 2019, will double our existing capacity with 21.9 per cent to 92.8 million.
Adjusted Group Total export revenue grew by 30.2 per cent, cent up on the same period last year with Strong Bacon sales growth reflected the further room for expansion.
The facility operating margin at 6.3 per cent was 22 basis with a modest decline in sales to Far Eastern higher prices, resulting from the devaluation significant business win in quarter four of the will incorporate the highest animal welfare points higher than in the same period last markets of 6.1 per cent comfortably offset of Sterling against the Euro, offsetting lower previous financial year for gammon and wet standards and latest generation production year, due to a combination of easing input by a 104.0 per cent increase in sales to other volumes following the loss of pizza toppings cure bacon with one of the sites principal techniques and equipment to drive operational prices during the second half of the year, export markets which, most notably, include business with one retail customer.
Consumers continue to efficiency gains.
further operational efficiency improvements, the US and Europe.
Growth in these two business wins with other retail customers, switch from standard tier products into better capacity utilisation and tight cost markets reflected stronger volumes and higher including new platter range launches and the premium and super-premium ranges, Sales of premium Cooked Poultry grew control.
prices in Europe resulting from a favourable pre-pack corned beef, boosted sales.
After encouraged by a combination of new product strongly during the year, reflecting underlying Sterling : Euro exchange rate.
Far East volumes a challenging first half the sub-category launches, multi-buy mechanics and every day market growth and the successful launch of CATEGORY REVIEW improved quarter by quarter and returned returned to volume growth in the second half low pricing.
contracts with two of the Groups principal Fresh Pork to growth in the second half of the year.
The business continues to explore retail customers.
Further lines have been Fresh Pork includes our three primary Like-for-like export sales, excluding the benefit opportunities in the food service sector with Pastry sales grew strongly reflecting the added since these contracts were launched processing facilities and associated farming from Ballymena prior to the anniversary of sales through this channel growing strongly contribution from new business with a and looking forward there is a strong new operations and represented 33 per cent of its acquisition and the 53rd week, grew by underpinned by new business with one of food-to-go customer launched at the start product development pipeline to drive further Group revenue.
Total Fresh Pork revenue 20.7 per cent.
The Ballymena facility is now the Groups leading Quick Service Restaurant of the year.
The business has also successfully growth both with retail customers and in the increased by 20.1 per cent.
Excluding the approved to export directly to China and the customers.
The Woodalls range of British developed a range of frozen products for one businesss core food service and Quick Service contribution from Ballymena prior to the first direct shipments were made in quarter charcuterie products continues to perform of the Groups retail customers.
anniversary of its acquisition and the 53rd four.
We are growing our e-commerce business well, with a new listing now secured with business wins augmented continued growth week, like-for-like revenue growth was in China and exports to Japan are growing a key retail customer.
with the sites anchor retail customer.
Performance was comfortably strongly with a focus on supplying premium outdoor bred pork to the food service sector.
38 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 39 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED DIVIDEND POLICY PENSIONS FINANCE REVIEW We believe in paying a sustainable dividend The Group operates defined contribution REVENUE which delivers a strong return to investors pension schemes whereby contributions are Reported revenue from continuing operations but is balanced against the need to invest in made to schemes administered by major at 1,464.5 million 2017: 1,245.1 million the future of the business.
Our policy ensures insurance companies.
Contributions to these increased by 17.6 per cent compared to the that shareholder income streams are strongly schemes are determined as a percentage of previous year.
aligned to profitability and the sustained employees earnings.
growth in the Groups profits has been ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT matched by the Groups dividend per share The Group also operates a defined benefit Adjusted Group operating profit of 92.8 growth which is unbroken for 28 years see pension scheme which has been closed to million 2017: 76.1 million, including a full page 6.
Our dividend policy can be found further benefit accrual since 2004.
The deficit year contribution from acquisitions made in on our website: www.
on this scheme at 31 March 2018 was 8.1 the previous year, increased by 21.9 per cent.
million, compared to 9.5 million at 31 March Adjusted Group operating margin was 6.3 ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 2017, reflecting our commitment to increased per cent of sales compared to 6.1 per cent Adjusted earnings per share from continuing funding for the scheme.
operations rose by 19.9 per cent to 145.0 pence to the scheme during the year, as part of 2017: 120.9 pence.
The average number of the programme to reduce the deficit, were FINANCE COSTS shares in issue was 50,787,000 2017: 50,191,000.
The present value of funded Net financing costs at 0.4 million were 0.2 obligations was 37.5 million, and the fair million lower than the prior year, reflecting STATUTORY PROFIT MEASURES value of plan assets was 29.4 million.
lower average borrowings and improved The statutory results of the business show terms on the Groups banking facility a 13.5 per cent increase in profit before tax UK REFERENDUM ON EU MEMBERSHIP following refinancing in November 2016. to 88.0 million 2017: 77.5 million, a 13.2 The outcome of the UK referendum on EU per cent increase in Group operating profit membership and the subsequent uncertainty The Groups banking facility is unsecured to 88.4 million 2017: 78.1 million, and an over the nature of the UKs exit from the EU and runs to November 2022 with the option 11.0 per cent increase in earnings per share continue to drive volatility in currency markets to extend by a further year and comprises from continuing operations to 137.8 pence and uncertainty within the European labour a revolving credit facility of 160 million, 2017: 124.2 pence.
The Group therefore continues to including a committed overdraft of 20 these results to the adjusted measures can monitor and manage its business risks in million.
It also includes the option to access be found in Note 31. these areas.
a further 40 million on the same terms at any point during the term of the agreement.
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT SUMMARY The facility provides the business with The net cash inflow from operating activities We have delivered another outstanding year generous headroom for the future.
in the year was 112.1 million 2017: 72.9 of growth.
We have also made significant million reflecting higher Group operating investment in our asset base during the year ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX profit offset by a working capital outflow with more planned in the year ahead to Adjusted profit before tax was 22.4 per cent of just 4.0 million 2017: 18.5 million support our strategic objectives.
This leaves us higher at 92.4 million 2017: 75.5 million.
despite significant growth in the scale of the in a strong position to drive continued growth.
Net funds at the end of the year TAXATION were 20.6 million compared to net debt of The tax charge of 18.0 million was 20.5 per 11.0 million for the prior year with the inflow cent of profit before tax 2017: 19.5 per cent.
from operating activities partially offset The standard rate of UK corporation tax by the payment of 5.3 million of deferred Mark Bottomley was 19.0 per cent 2017: 20.0 per cent.
The consideration on acquisitions, a net 58.0 Finance Director effective corporation tax rate was higher million invested in our asset base and 18.2 than the standard rate due to disallowable million of dividends paid to our Shareholders.
The lower than standard rate charge in the previous year reflected prior ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES year adjustments, primarily relating to a capital allowance review during that year, partially offset by disallowable expenses.
31.6 TAX STRATEGY Our tax strategy is aligned with our vision and core values and fits within our overall Corporate Governance structure.
Our Free cash ow 58.0 strategy ensures that we comply with all tax 111.7m 1.4 laws wherever we do business and that we pay all taxes that we are legally required to pay when they fall due.
To safeguard our 18.2 reputation as a responsible taxpayer we do not participate in any tax planning 5.3 arrangements that do not comply with either the legal interpretation or the spirit of tax laws.
Our tax strategy can be found Net capital expenditure Other on our website: www.
Acquisitions Increase in net funds Dividend paid 40 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41 M I T I G A T I O N N O I T A C I F I T N P E R I D O I R I T Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RISK REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Board Audit Committee AND UNCERTAINTIES Group Risk Committee Operational Management AS A LEADING UK FOOD MANUFACTURER IT IS IMPORTANT THAT THE GROUP IDENTIFIES, MONITORS AND PRIORITISES ITS RISKS AND ENSURES THAT APPROPRIATE MITIGATING ACTIONS ARE DEPLOYED TO REDUCE THE PROBABILITY AND IMPACT OF THESE RISKS OCCURRING.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK IDENTIFYING AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE In making this assessment of viability, the Board As shown on the opposite page, the Group PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk is assessed across four categories Board carried out a robust assessment of Responsible for the Groups system of Risk has a robust Risk Management Framework The Groups Risk Management Framework namely: strategic, commercial, financial the principal risks and uncertainties facing Management and Internal Control and for setting in place which leads to the identification and enables the business to identify, prioritise and operational.
As a leading UK food the Group.
Risks assessed to have the highest the Groups overall risk appetite.
management of risks across the business.
A Group risk register is manufacturer, the Board has a low risk likelihood of occurrence or the severest The Board has overall responsibility for the in place which captures overarching business appetite for risks which may impact impact, crystallising both individually and in Audit Committee establishment and oversight of the Groups risks together with detailed individual site risk the Groups reputation or compliance in combination, underwent detailed sensitivity Reviews the systems of Internal Control that are in Risk Management Framework and Internal registers owned by operational management.
operational areas such as product quality analysis.
These risks were: a loss of a key place and provides assurance to the Board that the Control procedures which are summarised The Group undertakes reviews for new and Health & Safety.
However, the Board customer: a significant decline in consumer processes of Risk Management and Internal Control below and discussed further within the and emerging risks on a regular basis and recognises that, in pursuit of its strategic demand: and a reduction in overseas exports.
Governance Report on pages 51 to 55. implements appropriate mitigating actions objectives, there is, on occasion, a risk and as required.
reward trade-off in making certain decisions The sensitivity analysis quantified the financial Group Risk Committee Overall the Board recognises, in accordance such as business acquisitions and capital impact on the strategic plan and on the Groups Provides oversight and advice to the Audit Committee with the principles of the UK Corporate The Group Risk Committee monitors these investment where a higher level of risk viability against specific measures including and Board in relation to current and future risk Governance Code, the need for a robust processes, reviews the risk registers and may be accepted.
All strategic decisions liquidity, credit rating and bank covenants.
exposures and risk mitigation strategies.
system of Internal Control procedures and an reports significant risks to the Audit are underpinned by a robust business case, effective Risk Management Framework to be Committee.
The Board receives a quarterly appropriate level of due diligence and are The results of the sensitivity analysis highlighted Operational Management in place, which supports the Groups ability to update report on the risk profile facing the carefully considered to ensure each proposal that the Group would, over the three year Deploy site level Risk Management processes manage risk and continue as a viable entity.
Group and formally reviews the key risks facing is understood prior to Board approval.
period, be able to withstand the impact of the to ensure that risks are adequately identified Further details are provided within the Viability the business at least once a year.
Through most severe combination of the risks modelled and controlled.
this formalised process the principal risks are VIABILITY STATEMENT by making adjustments to its strategic plan determined and subsequently agreed by In accordance with the provisions of the UK and capital expenditure programme.
The Group Risk Committee, which consists the Board.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has of Senior Managers, and which is chaired by assessed the viability of the Group over an Based on the results of this analysis, the Board the Group Finance Director, meets four times The risks facing the Group are broadly appropriate period, taking into account the has a reasonable expectation that the Group a year.
The Group also has a well-established, consistent with the previous year, with no current position, future prospects and the will be able to continue in operation and meet effective Internal Audit function which reports significant changes identified.
However, potential impact of the principal risks outlined its liabilities as they fall due over the period to directly to the Audit Committee and provides in common with other businesses, Brexit on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual Report.
31 March 2021. independent assurance that the Groups continues to be an area of focus for the Risk Management Framework, governance Group.
There are specific areas where The Board has determined that a three year and key Internal Control procedures are over the short to medium-term Brexit could period to March 2021 is an appropriate period operating effectively.
potentially impact upon the Group to include: over which to provide its Viability Statement.
the availability and cost of labour, volatility in This timeframe has been specifically chosen The Group is continually seeking to strengthen Sterling and a downturn in overall consumer due to the current financial and operational its Risk Management processes.
Senior management and the planning cycles of the Group.
year an independent external review of the Board will continue to closely monitor Brexit Groups Risk Management Framework was negotiations and make adjustments to the commissioned by the Board.
Overall this Groups strategic plan as necessary.
concluded that the Group has formalised and effective Risk Management arrangements in The principal risks and uncertainties facing the place.
Recommendations raised to enhance Group are summarised on pages 44 and 45. existing processes are being implemented.
These have been considered during the preparation of the Viability Statement.
It should be noted, however, that it is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group.
42 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43 I S A T I O G N N I R O T I N O A M S S E S S M E N T Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RISK REPORT CONTINUED STRATEGIC PILLAR NET RISK RISK TREND AFTER MITIGATION High Quality Products Risk increased Low risk PRINCIPAL RISKS Operating Excellence Risk unchanged Medium risk Sales Growth Risk decreased AND UNCERTAINTIES High risk Sustainability Considered in detail within Viability Statement THE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE GROUP ARE SUMMARISED BELOW: RISK AREA MITIGATION AND NET RISK RATING RISK TREND RISK AREA MITIGATION AND NET RISK RATING RISK TREND STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL The Group operates in highly competitive The Group maintains and develops strong The Group faces the risk of significant incidents Robust business continuity plans are in place COMPETITOR DISRUPTION markets.
Product innovation and changing working relationships with its customers which such as fire, flood or loss of key utilities together across the Group and appropriate insurance ACTIVITY TO GROUP consumer trends provide a constant challenge are underpinned by delivering high levels of with the risk of disruption to day to day arrangements exist to mitigate financial loss.
The risk has stayed the same.
OPERATIONS to the future success of the Group and its ability service, quality products and by continued operations from issues such as poor operational Potential business disruption is minimised to compete effectively with its competitors.
focus on product development and innovation.
management or the breakdown of key through multi-site operations across many equipment.
Overall such issues could result in of the Groups core product lines.
the prolonged disruption to site processes.
GROWTH & The Group continues to pursue growth strategies The Board routinely receives updates on the through securing contracts with new customers, contractual position of all key customers and As the Group continues to pursue its growth Across the Group robust recruitment processes, RECRUITMENT & CHANGE obtaining additional contracts with existing where required implements necessary actions.
strategy, the success of the Group is dependent competitive remuneration packages and RETENTION OF customers and through the acquisition of Regarding business acquisitions, rigorous due on attracting and retaining quality, skilled and ongoing training and development plans are The risk has stayed the same WORKFORCE appropriate businesses.
The Group also has to diligence reviews are carried out.
Specifically, for senior management, although the potential implications navigate both internal and external change, external change is appropriately resourced to formalised succession planning is also in place.
of Brexit are being closely monitored.
such as changes in regulation.
These present ensure operational excellence and compliance, operational and compliance challenges with performance monitored by operational and issues.
HEALTH & SAFETY A significant breach of Health & Safety The Group has strong Health & Safety processes legislation could lead to reputational damage and procedures in place and conforms to all and regulatory penalties, including restrictions relevant standards and regulations as well as The risk has stayed the same.
COMMERCIAL on operations, damages or fines.
pursuing industry best practice across its sites.
All sites are subject to frequent audits by internal CONSUMER In common with other food industry The Group works closely with its key customers teams, customers and regulatory authorities to manufacturers, a deterioration in the UK to adapt to changing consumer trends and also DEMAND ensure standards are being adhered to.
economy or a significant change in food offers a range of products across premium, The risk has stayed the same.
consumption patterns could lead to a fall standard and value tiers which it is able to flex in demand for the Groups products and accordingly.
Pork and chicken remain extremely a fall in Group revenue.
competitively priced and sought after products.
A significant infection or disease outbreak The Groups pig farming activities, and other DISEASE & could result in the loss of supply of pig or poultry farms from which third party pig meat is INFECTION WITHIN meat or the inability to move livestock freely, ultimately sourced, have a broad geographical The risk has stayed the same.
LIVESTOCK impacting on the supply of key raw materials spread to avoid reliance on a single production RELIANCE ON A significant proportion of the Groups results The Group continually pursues opportunities into the Groups sites.
The Groups own poultry flock is is generated from a small number of major to expand its customer base across all product KEY CUSTOMERS predominately housed indoors.
In addition, customers and export sales.
Loss of all or part of categories and works closely with UK and export The risk has stayed the same.
robust vaccination and bio-security procedures & EXPORTS the Groups business with one or more of these customers to ensure service, quality, food safety mitigate the risk of disease and infections.
customers or loss of an export licence could and new product developments are of the adversely impact on the Groups operations.
In common with other food manufacturers the The Group ensures that all raw materials are FOOD SCARES Group is subject to the risks of product and or traceable to original source and that site & PRODUCT PIG MEAT The Group is specifically exposed to issues The Group has a trusted long standing raw material contamination and potential manufacturing, storage and distribution The risk has stayed the same.
CONTAMINATION associated with the pricing and availability of farming supply base which is complemented AVAILABILITY health related industry-wide food scares.
Such systems and those of our suppliers are pig meat.
An increase in pig prices or a lack of by supply from the Groups own farms.
incidents could lead to product recall costs, continually monitored by experienced and & PRICE availability of pig meat could adversely impact These arrangements help to mitigate the risks reputational damage and regulatory penalties.
on the Groups operations and the ability to associated with pig price volatility and supply.
supply manufacturing sites and key customers.
The Group relies heavily on information The Group has a robust IT control framework IT SYSTEMS & FINANCIAL technology and key systems to support the in place, which is reviewed and tested on CYBER SECURITY business.
In common with other organisations a frequent basis by internal teams and The risk has increased due to INTEREST RATE, The Group is exposed to interest rate risk The Group deploys effective currency hedging the Group is susceptible to cyber-attacks with specialist third parties.
Detailed internal the general number of reported on borrowings and, in specific areas, foreign arrangements to mitigate risks associated CURRENCY, the risk of a financial loss and threat to the control procedures are also in place to reduce cyber-attacks in the wider economy.
In addition the Group with foreign currency movements.
Sites have The risk has stayed the same LIQUIDITY & overall confidentiality and availability of data the potential risk of fraudulent payment needs continued access to funding for both access to the Groups overdraft facility and although the potential implications in systems.
Whilst no material cyber security requests being processed.
During the year, CREDIT RISK current business and future growth.
bank balances are monitored on a daily basis of Brexit are being closely monitored.
breaches have occurred over the course of the to further mitigate the risks associated with by Group Finance.
All bank debt is arranged year, the Board is mindful of the ongoing risks cyber-attacks, the Board approved the purchase centrally and appropriate headroom is in this area given the increasing sophistication of cyber insurance which provides specialist maintained.
and evolving nature of this threat.
technical and legal support in the event of a cyber incident.
44 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: S Str trat ate egic R gic Rep epor ort t Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LEADERSHIP CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW PROVIDING EFFECTIVE BOARD LEADERSHIP IT IS IMPORTANT TO THE BOARD AND TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS THAT THE GROUP MAINTAINS A HIGH STANDARD OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO SAFEGUARD ITS REPUTATION AND TO SUPPORT ITS LONG-TERM SUCCESS.
Your Board is committed to ensuring continue to be that the best person gets consultants to introduce additional expertise mindful to ensure that its recommendations that the Groups corporate governance the job.
Appointing more female and ethnically and an external perspective.
In this context, reflect best market practice and also align arrangements are effective and continue to diverse candidates is entirely consistent with a number of females have been appointed to the interests of Executive Directors with the evolve with best practice and I am pleased our aim of ensuring our Directors and senior senior roles and now 24 per cent of our senior Groups strategy and long-term interests to report that the Group has continued to management represent the people with managers and executives are female.
We will of Shareholders and other stakeholders to comply with the requirements of the 2016 the most appropriate skills, knowledge and continue to focus on diversity within the Group promote the continued success of the Group.
UK Corporate Governance Code throughout experience to fulfil their roles.
As part of our and an explanation of our policy is included in the year.
Further details of how the Board long-term succession planning, I was therefore the report of the Nomination Committee.
During the year we have undertaken supports the executive team and the role and delighted to welcome Pam Powell and Tim a significant project developing a new activities of the various Board committees are Smith to our Board in April, following a rigorous The Remuneration Committee reviewed 28 million site for our Continental Products set out in the following pages of this report.
appointment process conducted with the the Groups remuneration policy during the business at Bury and also announced the assistance of external consultants during year with the assistance of independent development of a new poultry processing Over the course of the last 12 months there which a wide range of candidates were consultants and its recommendations, which facility at Eye in Suffolk.
These have significant have been numerous developments in relation considered.
Their appointment will enhance will be presented for approval by Shareholders implications for the Group, but also for our to corporate governance many of which will the diversity and independence of our Board.
at the Companys forthcoming AGM, are set wider group of stakeholders including our result in listed companies having to meet Further details of the appointment process out in the Remuneration Committee Report employees and local communities and we enhanced governance requirements.
Notably, are set out in the report of the Nomination on pages 66 to 82.
The Committee has been have consulted widely in relation to these the Parker Review and second HamptonCommittee on pages 63 to 65. to address stakeholder concerns.
Alexander Review were published which include a number of recommendations relating, Our succession planning also depends on Your Board is committed to continuing respectively, to improving ethnic diversity the development of the future leaders of the to maintain a high standard of governance.
and gender balance in the leadership of FTSE business and ensuring that we have a cohort We recognise this is not static and is an companies.
A new Corporate Governance of experienced executives with the skills and evolving process which requires continual Code will also be published in the summer.
drive to continue to take our business forward.
This report explains The Hampton-Alexander review recognises how we have applied the principles of good At the Companys last Annual General this and makes recommendations relating to governance and have aligned these during Meeting in July 2017, a significant number publishing details of gender balance amongst the year to our strategic plans and the of votes were cast against, or abstained on, senior managers.
Whilst this is not yet a interests of Shareholders.
the resolution proposed to re-elect me as requirement, we have adopted this approach a Director.
This was because of a perceived and have included greater details of the age, lack of diversity and independence on our tenure and gender of our Group Directors on Board and this also accounted for a number page 50 so that Shareholders are in a better Martin Davey of votes against the re-election of other position to assess our wider management team.
Chairman COMPLIANCE STATEMENT executive directors.
I am therefore pleased to have the opportunity to explain the Certain areas of the food sector have faced 22 May 2018 The Board is pleased to report that it has complied with the Groups approach to corporate governance challenges in recruiting talented female and requirements of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and recent developments.
ethnically diverse candidates and suffer from during the year ended 31 March 2018.
The Board believes that historic low levels of participation.
We will it has the appropriate blend of skills, experience, independence As I have previously indicated, the Board continue to address this positively through and knowledge to support the business and will continue to and Nomination Committee supports diversity focusing on our recruitment, training and ensure an optimal level of relevant skills, experience and diversity in relation to both external and internal mentoring programmes so that we can meet amongst its members, appropriate to support the future needs appointments without having specific targets.
developing expectations in this area.
The Groups principal concern has and will undertaken both within the business and using The Board has reviewed the financial statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing sufficient and appropriate information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee provided guidance to the Board to assist them in reaching this conclusion.
46 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARTIN DAVEY ADAM COUCH MARK BOTTOMLEY JIM BRISBY STEVEN ESOM MARK RECKITT KATE ALLUM PAM POWELL TIM SMITH Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Term of Office Martin was appointed Adam was appointed Mark was appointed Jim was appointed to the Steven was appointed Mark was appointed Kate was appointed Pam was appointed Tim was appointed to the Board in 1985 to the Board in 2003 as to the Board in 2009 Board in 2010 as Sales and as an independent as an independent as an independent as an independent as an independent as Finance Director, Managing Director of as Finance Director.
Marketing Director and non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director appointed Chief Executive Fresh Pork and became became Commercial in 2009. in 2014. in 2013. in 2018. in 2018. in 1988 and became Chief Executive in 2012.
Committee Membership N R A N A N R A N R A N R A N R Chair Chair Chair Independent Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Skills and Experience Martin joined Cranswick Adam joined Cranswicks Mark joined Cranswick in Jim joined Cranswick in Steven has experience of Mark has experience Kate has experience of Pam has international Tim has experience in as Finance Director in Fresh Pork Business in 1991 2008 as Group Financial 1995.
He was appointed the food sector having across a number of the food sector both experience in strategy, the UK food sector 1985 when he led the and was appointed to the Controller and was Sales and Marketing held a number of senior sectors.
He was Group within the UK and Europe.
marketing and innovation having worked in Companys listing on the Board in 2003 as Managing appointed to the Board Director in 2010 and positions including Strategy Director of Kate was Chief Executive in fast moving consumer food manufacturing, London Stock Exchange Director of Fresh Pork.
He as Finance Director in Commercial Director Executive Director of Food Smiths Group plc between of First Milk Limited from goods, including food and government regulation and and was subsequently was appointed as Chief 2009.
Before joining the in 2014 and has been a at Marks & Spencer plc 2011 and 2014.
Prior to 2010 to 2015 and prior beverages.
Tim was appointed Chief Executive Operating Officer in 2011 Company, Mark held a key member of the team which followed 12 years joining Smiths, Mark to that was head of the nine years at SABMiller plc, the Group Quality Director in 1988.
Through Martins and then Chief Executive in number of senior finance responsible for growth at Waitrose, the last five was interim Managing European supply chain holding the position of at Tesco plc between 2012 guidance over the last 2012.
Under his leadership roles in the food sector.
of the Group and the years of which he was Director of Green & Blacks for McDonalds.
Group Director of Strategy and 2017.
Prior to joining 33 years the Group has Cranswick has continued Mark is responsible for development of its Managing Director.
Chocolate and before that and Innovation, and prior Tesco plc, Tim was the expanded both organically to expand and become a overseeing the financial commercial strategy.
held a number of finance to this, worked at Coty Chief Executive of the Food and through acquisition major player in the food operation of the Group and strategy roles at Europe in France, Unilever Standards Agency FSA and entered the FTSE 250 processing industry.
and setting financial Cadbury plc.
Mark is a plc in London, and Lever during which time he led in 2008.
a strategic review of the Executive Chairman in chartered accountant.
Before joining Adam was a committee 2004 and since 2013 has the FSA Tim led a number member of the British fulfilled the role on a of businesses including Pig Executive between part-time basis.
Martin is Express Dairies plc and 2005 and 2013. a chartered accountant.
External Appointments and Commitments None None None None Non-Executive director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive of CeDo Non-Executive Director None of The Rank Group Plc.
of Mitie Group plc and Limited.
Non-Executive of Premier Foods plc Non-Executive Chairman Hill & Smith Holdings plc.
Director of Origin and A. G. Barr plc.
of the BRC Global Non-Executive Director Enterprises plc.
Standards Board and of JD Wetherspoon plc Advantage Travel Centres.
Board by tenure Board by age Board by gender COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee 0-3 3-6 6-9 9 years 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 61-65 Male Female years years years or more years years years years years 48 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LEADERSHIP HOW WE ARE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNED GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible for the long-term success and stewardship of the Company, overseeing its conduct and affairs to create sustainable value for the benefit of its Shareholders and other stakeholders including customers, suppliers, employees and the communities in which the Cranswick plc Board business operates.
BOARD The Board delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its various committees and to senior management.
The committees assist the Board by COMMITTEES fulfilling their obligations and reporting back to the Board on the outcomes from their respective activities.
This report, together with the Audit Committee Report on pages 57 to 62, the Nomination Committee Report on pages 63 to 65, and the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 82, describes how the Board applies the principles of good governance and best practice as REMUNERATION NOMINATION AUDIT & RISK set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Our approach to governance is in accordance with best practice as outlined by the key principles of the five sections of the Code: leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration: and relations with Shareholders.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF EXECUTIVE BOARD OPERATING THE BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES BOARDS COMMITTEE The Board consists of senior The Board delegates certain Operating boards or subOPERATING Executive management An Executive Committee, roles and responsibilities to its boards consisting of senior BOARDS alongside a strong team of consisting of the Executive various committees and to executives from each of the sector experienced NonDirectors and senior executives senior management.
The relevant businesses meet Executive Directors.
All from the business, meets committees assist the Board by regularly to discuss operational Non-Executive Directors are occasionally to discuss strategy, fulfilling their obligations and and commercial matters deemed to be independent.
operational and commercial reporting back to the Board affecting such businesses.
The Board is ultimately matters affecting the business.
FRESH PORK CONVENIENCE GOURMET POULTRY FOOD CENTRAL on the outcomes from their Operating boards are also responsible for the business The feedback from this PRODUCTS respective activities.
attended by the Executive strategy and the financial committee is shared Directors and relevant members robustness of the Group, for with the Board.
To assist the Board in carrying of the Food Central operating Darren Andrew Ian Fisher John Fletcher Nigel Armes Chris Aldersley monitoring performance and out its functions and to ensure board as appropriate.
The Charles Bowes Andy Jenkins Marcus Hoggarth John Armstrong Jackie Carter for establishing a governance that there is independent feedback from the operating Neil Clappison Gary Landsborough Andy Mayer David Brown Rebecca Dearsly structure and practice which oversight of internal controls and boards is shared with the Board.
Barry Lock Sam Pearl Drew Weir Andrew Gleadow Kate Maxwell facilitates effective decision risk management, the Board making and good governance.
Nick Mitchell Simon Ravenscroft Jason Key Miranda Walker delegates certain responsibilities To enable the members of the James Pontone Norman Smith David Park Graeme Watson to its principal committees.
Board to discharge these Neil Willis Rollo Thompson Matthew Ward responsibilities, they have full Edward Wright Steve Westhead and timely access to all relevant information and Board meetings are held at the Groups production facilities allowing the Directors to review the operations and meet the DIVERSITY management teams of those particular sites.
Group Directors by tenure Group Directors by age Group Directors by gender Read more on page 56.
Under 40 years 21% 0-3 years 37% 41-45 years 12% Male 88% 46-50 years 34% 3-6 years 33% Female 12% 51-55 years 24% 6-9 years 21% 56-60 years 6% 9 years or more 9% 61-65 years 3% 50 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD CHAIRMAN Martin Davey Primarily responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring that it is effective and promoting EFFECTIVENESS critical discussion.
Chairs the Nomination Committee and the Annual General Meeting.
Sets the Board meeting agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, ensuring they are aligned to the business strategy.
Leads the performance evaluation of the Board and ensures its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
BOARD OPERATION AND ATTENDANCE Sponsors and promotes the highest corporate governance and ethical standards.
There were eight scheduled Board meetings held during the year and a number of other meetings and conference calls were convened for specific Facilitates contribution from all Directors to the discussions of the Board.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Provides a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenges proposals Secretary.
All Directors are expected to attend the scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings in addition to the Annual where appropriate.
General Meeting unless they are prevented from doing so by prior work or extenuating personal commitments.
Where a Director is unable to Ensures effective communication with our Shareholders and other stakeholders.
attend a meeting they have the opportunity to review relevant papers and discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman, or Committee Chair as appropriate, also briefs any Director not present to update them on key matters CHIEF EXECUTIVE CEO discussed and decisions taken.
Adam Couch Develops and implements the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Board and its advisers.
Details of Board membership and attendance at scheduled Board meetings are set out below: Responsible for the overall operational activity of the Group.
Manages the day-to-day business of the Group, leads its direction and promotes its culture and values.
Brings matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman for discussion and consideration by the Board where appropriate.
Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the sustainability agenda within the Group.
Meetings held during the year 8 3 2 4 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive Directors Mark Bottomley and Jim Brisby Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Support the CEO in the implementation of the Groups strategic policies.
Martin Davey n a n a Responsible for the budgeting process and reporting of the financial performance of the Group.
Responsible for the commercial affairs of the Group.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management of commercial, risk and finance functions Adam Couch n a n a n a across the Group.
Mark Bottomley n a n a n a SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR SID Steven Esom Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and supports him in his leadership of the Board.
Jim Brisby n a n a n a Is available if Shareholders want to raise concerns which normal channels have failed to resolve.
Heads up the Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Non-Executive Directors Reviews the Chairmans annual performance appraisal along with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Steven Esom NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Mark Reckitt Kate Allum, Pam Powell, Bring complementary skills and experience to the Board.
Mark Reckitt and Tim Smith Constructively challenge the Executive Directors on matters affecting the Group.
Chairs the Audit Committee Mark Reckitt.
Kate Allum Satisfy themselves as to the accuracy of the financial performance of the Group and the robustness and effectiveness of financial controls and risk management processes.
Help develop strategy with an independent outlook.
Together with the SID review managements performance.
n a not applicable where Director is not a member of the Committee.
Executive Directors do attend the various Committee meetings by invitation as required.
COMPANY SECRETARY Steven Glover Responsible to the Board.
Acts as secretary to the Board and each of its Committees ensuring compliance with procedures.
Responsible, under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring the Board receives timely and accurate information.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Provides support to the Non-Executive Directors.
In the past, the appointment of an Executive Director has usually been an internal promotion and their knowledge of the business has been Responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Our new Non-Executive Directors have received a comprehensive introduction to the Groups activities and a tailored induction programme including a number of site visits.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity for ongoing training to keep up to date with relevant legislative changes, including covering their duties and responsibilities as Directors and the general business environment.
Directors can obtain independent advice at the expense of the Company.
52 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information EFFECTIVENESS BOARD EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED KEY ACTIVITIES RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL It is the Boards role to protect the business from operational and financial risks and it has established a system of internal control which safeguards the Shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
Such a system provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in this process by reviewing the principal risks and the report on pages 57 STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE AND RISK to 62 outlines further this process.
Regularly discussing strategy at Board meetings throughout Reviewing the three year forecasts and other factors in the year.
support of the Viability Statement.
Viability is considered The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
Receiving presentations from operational management on in detail on pages 42 and 43.
The organisational structure has been designed in order to develop, plan, execute, monitor and control the Groups objectives effectively and to future strategic opportunities.
Reviewing Board and Committees effectiveness and ensure that internal control is embedded within the operations.
Considering potential acquisition opportunities and other Directors conflicts of interest.
Reviewing terms of reference for all Committees.
The Board confirms that the key ongoing processes and features of the Groups internal, risk-based, control system have been fully operative Reviewing the development of the Groups new 28 million Reviewing quarterly Health & Safety, Risk and throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Continental Foods facility at Bury.
Considering the proposal to develop a new poultry processing Reviewing the principal financial and non-financial risks, FINANCIAL REPORTING facility at Eye, Suffolk.
including cyber, to which the Group is exposed supported by The culture of the business extends to the provision of financial information.
Operational management provide weekly forecasts, monthly Discussing the continuing ramifications of the UK vote in June the Audit Committee.
trading reports, and annual budgets and these are forwarded to Group management and are discussed at monthly site operating board 2016 to exit the EU.
Group Executive Directors attend most of these meetings and the information is consolidated and reported at Group Board meetings.
The Group prepares an annual budget and half year re-forecast that are agreed by the Board, with the budget including a three year forecast for consideration to support the Viability Statement.
The use of standard reporting software by all Group entities ensures that information is presented in a consistent manner which facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Site directors and finance heads are required to sign a monthly confirmation that their business has complied with the Groups accounting policies and procedures, with a more detailed confirmation provided for half year and year end reporting.
REMUNERATION PEOPLE AND SUCCESSION PERFORMANCE MONITORING The Remuneration Committee monitors the executive remuneration packages and incentive scheme and believes the incentives provide a strong alignment between Shareholders, the Executive Directors and the wider senior executive management team.
The remuneration policy was agreed Considering proposals on succession planning, when Approving the Groups tax strategy.
at the AGM in 2015 and is due to be renewed at the Companys forthcoming AGM in July.
Details of the proposed new policy are included in the required, for the Board.
Approving the Companys dividend strategy.
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 82 which provides further details on Directors remuneration, together with the activities of the Approving promotion of new senior executives to the Recommending the 2016 17 final dividend and the 2017 18 Remuneration Committee during the year.
Reviewing proposals on senior executive succession planning.
Reviewing and approving the Groups annual budget, interim RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Considering the talent management programme and the results and Annual Report.
Regular engagement with investors provides the Group with the opportunity to discuss certain areas of interest and to ascertain any areas of need to develop the managers and executives of the future.
Considering whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, concern they may have.
Further details of steps taken by the Group to engage with its Shareholders are set out on page 83 along with details Reviewing the structure, size, composition and diversity of balanced and understandable.
of the Companys major Shareholders.
both the Board and its Committees supported by the Considering monthly operational reports from the Chief Nomination Committee.
Executive, Finance Director and Commercial Director.
By order of the Board Approving a further one year term as a Non-Executive Reviewing reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination Director for Steven Esom.
Approving the appointment of Pam Powell and Tim Smith Approving capital expenditure proposals in excess of 1 million.
Steven Glover Company Secretary 22 May 2018 CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Board has completed its annual review of the register relating to potential conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no such conflicts exist.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The performance evaluation process was undertaken in early 2018 based on a questionnaire which included questions about Board administration, the role of the Chairman, strategy, risk oversight, succession planning and the Board committee structure.
The questionnaire was completed by all Board members.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation exercise was prepared by the Company Secretary and was presented to the Board at its March 2018 meeting.
The report concluded from the feedback to their questionnaire that we operated an extremely unified, highly functional Board.
The evaluation recognised the need to continue the progress made to date in certain key areas such as people development and strategy.
The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors through informal discussions and observations.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the other Non-Executive Directors have met, without the Chairman present, to appraise his performance.
Overall the Board considered the performance of each Director to be effective and concluded that both the Board and its committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
54 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTABILITY BOARD THE AUDIT COMMITTEES COMMITTEE THE BOARD DELEGATES CERTAIN ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO ITS COMMITTEES THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ASSISTS THE BOARD IN DISCHARGING WHICH ASSIST THE BOARD BY FULFILLING THEIR OBLIGATIONS AND REPORTING ITS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE INTEGRITY OF THE FINANCIAL BACK TO THE BOARD ON THEIR ACTIVITIES.
STATEMENTS, THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL REPORTING PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS, IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL AUDIT PROCESSES.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chair: Mark Reckitt KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, External Audit Steven Esom Integrity of financial statements Partner and External Audit Senior Manager attended by Committee Members Meetings attended Kate Allum Accounting policies invitation as required.
Mark Reckitt Chair Internal controls and risk management The Group Company Secretary also attended meetings as External audit secretary to the Committee.
Whistleblowing and anti-bribery Steven Esom Group viability and related disclosure FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS The Committee meets as necessary and at least three times a year.
Kate Allum INDEPENDENCE All Members of the Committee are independent.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017-18 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Integrity of Financial Statements External audit Chair: Martin Davey KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Reviewed the key financial reporting judgements and concluded Reviewed and was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external Steven Esom Board composition that accounting treatments were appropriate.
Mark Reckitt Succession planning Reviewed and concluded that the Financial Statements are fair, Approved the terms of engagement and remuneration of the Kate Allum Non-Executive Directors balanced and understandable.
Diversity Reviewed and concluded that the Group is viable over the threeMonitored the independence of the external auditor and concluded Governance and evaluation year review period and that the Viability Statement disclosures that  LLP PwC are independent.
Whistleblowing and anti-bribery Accounting policies Reviewed and approved the Groups anti-bribery policy.
Reviewed the Groups accounting policies to ensure they remain Reviewed and approved the Groups whistleblowing policy.
appropriate and have been consistently applied.
Reviewed whistleblowing reports and their resolution.
Reviewed the disclosure of Alternative Performance Measures Internal controls and risk management APMs and concluded that they are appropriate for monitoring the Groups underlying performance.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Reviewed the Groups internal controls and risk management Reviewed the impact of forthcoming new accounting standards systems and concluded that they are operating effectively.
Chair: Steven Esom KEY RESPONSIBILITIES and concluded that disclosures in this years Financial Statements Reviewed and challenged the work, and associated reporting, Mark Reckitt Review of Remuneration Policy are appropriate.
of the Group Risk Committee.
Kate Allum Executive Director and senior executive Engaged Aon plc to carry out an independent external review Internal audit remuneration of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management Framework Approval of bonuses Reviewed and challenged the work of the Groups Internal Audit and reviewed their findings.
LTIP awards function and concluded that it is operating effectively and is Shareholder engagement Group viability and related disclosures appropriately resourced.
Engaged Deloitte LLP to carry out an independent external review Reviewed and concluded that a three-year time horizon for the of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and reviewed Groups Viability Statement was appropriate.
Reviewed the Groups budget, forecasts and downside sensitivity analysis Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter and Internal and concluded that the Group is viable over the 3-year time horizon.
Reviewed and approved the Viability Statement disclosures in the Financial Statements.
56 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTABILITY ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees primary role is to assist the Board in providing effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, AUDIT COMMITTEE Risk Management and internal control systems.
It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other communications and announcements to the market, and for considering whether accounting policies are appropriate.
It reviews the Companys internal controls and risk management frameworks, and reviews and approves the activities, plans and effectiveness of both the Groups internal and external auditors.
REPORT The Audit Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board annually, are available on the Companys website and at the Annual General Meeting.
The timing of meetings is designed to fit in with the Groups financial calendar, with meetings in advance of half year and year-end financial IT HAS BEEN ANOTHER BUSY YEAR FOR THE COMMITTEE WITH THE TRANSITION OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR reporting in November and May respectively, and an additional meeting in January in preparation for the year end process.
FOLLOWING LAST YEARS AUDIT TENDER PROCESS AND EXTERNAL REVIEWS OF THE GROUPS RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK AND INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION ADDING TO THE USUAL FULL COMMITTEE AGENDA.
All members of the Committee have extensive managerial experience in large, complex, food sector organisations and have a wide range of financial, commercial and operational expertise.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mark Reckitt, the Committee Chairman, meets this requirement.
Full biographical details of the Audit Committee members can be found on page 49.
I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee during the year ended 31 March 2018.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE As in previous years, the Committee has focused on its core responsibilities of supporting the Board and protecting the interests of Shareholders The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and its agenda is linked to the Group financial calendar.
The Company Chairman, Chief in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
This has been achieved by ensuring that the Group has in place a robust risk management Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend each process and an effective internal control framework to manage its risks, in support of going concern and viability confirmations.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit the Committee has continued to focus on ensuring the integrity, quality and compliance of the Groups external financial reporting.
have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the Committee formally meets with both the external auditor and internal audit independently, at least once a year.
This report sets out: the role, composition, activities and responsibilities of the Audit Committee: PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE a summary of the meetings of the Audit Committee during the year: The Committees principal responsibilities include reviewing and monitoring: the significant financial reporting issues debated by the Committee: the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the Committees oversight of the Groups Risk Management and internal control systems in support of the Board: the Groups accounting policies and the impact of new and amended accounting standards: the respective roles and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems in support of the Board: details of the transition of external auditor during the year: and the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management framework: the Committees annual review of external auditor independence.
the effectiveness, scope, cost and independence of the Groups external auditor: the Companys whistleblowing and anti-bribery policies: and The Committee met three times during the year and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial the Groups viability, and its disclosure within the Annual Report.
Controller and Head of Internal Audit to attend the meetings along with the external Audit Partner and Senior Manager.
The Committee also held separate private meetings with internal and external audit.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the removal, appointment or reappointment of the Groups external auditor.
The Committee also reviews its terms of reference annually and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the financial results for the full year and half year and the first and third quarter trading statements, including applicable accounting policies, key judgement areas, going concern and viability assumptions.
The Committee also FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary In addition, at the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied that the financial information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Specific areas of financial reporting focus during the year included: the quantum and appropriateness of commercial accruals: In order to give this report, the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: the accounting treatment and disclosure of biological assets: and obtaining confirmation from the relevant preparers of the various parts of the Annual Report that they had reviewed the fairness and revenue recognition.
completeness of their sections: ensuring a thorough verification process had been completed: The Committee reviewed Internal Audits terms of reference and work plans and oversaw the Groups relationship with the external auditor consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts in the context of the Audit Committees knowledge and experience of the business: including scope, fees and work performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Groups internal audit function and the reviewing the disclosure of Alternative Performance Measures APMs and considering their appropriateness for monitoring the Groups external auditor.
underlying performance: holding discussions with both internal and external audit: and In the coming year, the Committee will continue to focus on the Groups risk management processes, internal control frameworks and external reviewing and discussing a paper from the Finance Director outlining issues to consider and why he believed the Annual Report was fair, financial reporting to ensure that they remain effective and robust to support the future successful growth and development of the business.
On behalf of the Board The Board and the Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even-handed with both positive and negative messages being portrayed and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
Mark Reckitt Chair of the Audit Committee 22 May 2018 58 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT During the year, to provide additional assurance that the Groups Risk Management Framework is operating effectively, the Audit Committee Also at the request of the Board, and reflecting the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee has reviewed engaged Aon plc to provide an independent review of the Framework, including the activities of the Risk Committee.
The review confirmed that, and reported to the Board that it is satisfied with the risk disclosures and Viability Statement which have been presented.
overall, arrangements were appropriate for the size of the Group and operating effectively, as well as highlighting several areas for the further development of the Framework.
A plan has been put in place to incorporate these recommendations over the short term.
In order to give this report, the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: The Committee reviewed the key conclusions from work performed by the Group Risk Committee during the year to gain assurance over the Risk reviewing risk reporting disclosures in detail: Management Framework in place across the Group which is designed to identify, evaluate, monitor and mitigate risk.
The Committee was satisfied considering the appropriateness of the three-year time horizon selected for testing the Groups viability, including consideration of the that all principal risks had been identified see pages 42 to 45 and that the risk management framework is operating effectively and is appropriate uncertainty resulting from the UKs exit from the European Union: to support the Groups strategy for continued growth.
reviewing the Group annual budget and extended three-year forecast and the assumptions therein for reasonableness: agreeing appropriate downside sensitivities to be applied to the forecasts for stress testing, based on the Groups principal risks and the work INTERNAL AUDIT of the Risk Committee: and The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit activities.
The Audit reviewing the availability of debt funding for the Group across the three-year forecast period.
Committee reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan, ensuring that it was aligned to the principal risks of the business and received The Board and the Committee concluded that, based on the results of the analysis provided, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group regular progress updates on delivery of the plan objectives at each of its meetings during the year.
On an annual basis, the Committee reviews will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three-year time horizon see pages 42 and 43. and approves the Groups Internal Audit Charter which sets out the role and mandate of the Internal Audit function.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Internal Audit approach takes into account the overall Group risk framework as well as risks specific to individual operations and is regularly In the prior year, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out externally by EquityCommunications Limited.
updated to take into account changes to the risk profile of the Group.
The plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal The evaluation was very positive with comments indicating that the Committee was working well.
Recommended actions to further improve the Audit findings together with responses from management were considered by the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
The Audit performance of the Committee were incorporated into the Committees processes and activities for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Committee also reviewed progress by management in addressing the issues identified on a timely basis.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the Internal Audit function is operating effectively and that the level of experience and expertise within the department is appropriate to meet the In the current year an internal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was carried out which concluded that the Audit Groups needs.
Committee continues to provide effective leadership and exerts the required levels of governance and control.
Further details of the evaluation are detailed in Board Effectiveness on page 54.
During the year, Internal Audit performed a core financial controls review at all sites and also reviewed specific Group non-financial risk areas.
Overall no control failings or weaknesses were identified that would have a significant impact on the Group: however, recommendations were raised where FINANCIAL REPORTING necessary at specific sites to strengthen existing processes and controls and follow-up audit visits were carried out at the majority of sites to ensure During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management and considered, with input from the external that agreed corrective actions were being taken.
auditor, the appropriateness of the main accounting policies, estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements.
The key matters that the Committee considered in reviewing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 are set out below.
The Committee keeps the performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function under review and in doing so it also assesses the quality, experience and expertise within the department.
As outlined in last years report, to provide additional assurance that the Internal Audit department Financial reporting area Judgement and assurance considered is operating effectively, the Committee engaged Deloitte LLP during the year to provide an independent assessment of the function.
Commercial accruals The Committee reviewed the level of commercial accruals for rebates, discounts and promotional activity at the balance sheet date.
The level of commercial accruals is viewed by the Committee, management and the The review concluded that audits were in all material aspects compliant with Institute of Internal Audit IIA standards and also noted that the external auditor as an area sensitive to a moderate degree of commercial judgement, albeit 76 per cent of the function has clarity of purpose, has a good understanding of the business, is taken seriously and respected across the Group, and benefits from year end accrual related to volume rebates and similar allowances which require a lower level of judgement strong engagement with the Board and Audit Committee.
A number of recommendations for the further development of the function were and estimation due to their mechanical calculation.
The Committee also noted the FRCs guidance on complex proposed and a plan has been put in place to address these.
After reviewing the level of accruals and the intra-year movement, including the profit effect and considering the work of internal and external audit in verifying the underlying contractual The Group operates a decentralised structure where significant accountability is devolved to site operational and financial management.
Control arrangements, the Committee supported managements assumptions and accounting treatment including weaknesses identified at site level are taken seriously and management and the Committee seek to ensure that their cause is understood and the disclosures provided in the report and accounts.
See Note 20. mitigating actions are taken to limit the potential for recurrence.
In view of the work of internal audit, external audit and Group management, Biological assets As a result of the additional focus which the Groups new external auditors placed on the audit of biological it is considered unlikely that a weakness at an individual site would have a significant impact on the Group.
assets the Committee revisited the key assumptions used in the Groups valuation models and the accounting treatment adopted in this area.
In accordance with IAS 41, biological assets pigs and chickens are valued EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS at fair value in the Group balance sheet, with the net valuation movement disclosed separately on the face Following last years external audit tender process,  LLP PwC were formally appointed as the Groups external auditor of the income statement.
The valuation requires a significant level of judgement and is sensitive to the key at the AGM, on 24 July 2017.
The Audit Committee assessed the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the auditor as part of assumptions used in the models which include mortality rates, growth rates and the fair value of livestock at the audit tender process.
These criteria along with the quality and effectiveness of the audit process are reassessed by the Committee on an the various stages of development.
The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions used within the models annual basis.
and managements proposed accounting treatment and was satisfied that the standard had been fairly and consistently applied and the required disclosures made in the financial statements.
In addition to the year-end audit, PwC carried out a review on the Groups interim reporting during the year, with delivery of the review being in line with the plan set out during the tender process.
The Committee considers that such a review gives the Board additional assurance over the half year Revenue recognition The Committee reviewed the Group policy on revenue recognition, to which there were no changes during process and reporting.
the year, and concluded that it was appropriate for the business activities carried out by the Group.
As a food production business, the Committee does not consider revenue recognition for the Group to be complex, but The Committee considered the following factors in assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process: acknowledges that it is a key area of audit focus due to the risk of misstatement of revenues as a result of the experience and expertise of the Audit Partner and the audit team: management override.
The Committee thoroughly reviewed the work of both internal and external audit in the level of professional scepticism displayed throughout the audit process: this area and concluded that revenues had been appropriately recognised and that there was no evidence of the extent to which the audit plan was met and the quality of its delivery and execution: management bias.
In addition, the Committee has reviewed the impact of the forthcoming new International the robustness and perceptiveness of work performed on key accounting and audit judgements: and Financial Reporting Standard on revenue IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and agreed with the content of reports on audit findings and other communications.
managements conclusion that the new standard does not have a material impact on the Groups recognition of revenue.
Having considered these factors, and noted the observations made in the auditors reporting, the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and Risk Management Framework through The Committee will assess the external auditors performance and effectiveness for the current year through a questionnaire to be completed the work of Internal Audit, the external auditors control recommendations on the Groups financial control environment following their audit and by Audit Committee members and the Groups senior finance team.
The output from the process will be reviewed and discussed by the Audit thorough review and challenge of monthly Board reports.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing and bribery prevention policies Committee and with the external auditor at the Committees November 2018 meeting.
The Audit Committee also approves the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external auditor and monitors their independence.
A Risk Committee chaired by the Finance Director and including representatives from all areas of the business meets quarterly, reporting its The Committee confirms that it has complied with the requirements of the CMA Order 2014 as regards audit tendering, auditor appointment, outputs directly to the Committee and updating the Board accordingly.
negotiation and agreement of audit fees and approval of non-audit services.
60 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 61 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTABILITY ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT TRANSITION As reported previously, PwC were formally appointed as the Groups external auditor at the 2017 AGM.
To ensure the firms independence THE NOMINATION and avoid any conflict of interest for the year ended 31 March 2018, PwC stepped down as tax advisers to the Group prior to the start of the financial year.
COMMITTEE To ensure that PwC were well prepared for their engagement as external auditor, transition meetings were held with Group management and the firm shadowed aspects of Ernst & Youngs 2017 audit process including attendance at the Group audit clearance meeting and the year-end Audit Committee meeting to fully understand the audit approach taken and conclusions reached on significant audit issues and judgements.
Subsequently, PwC have continued to build their knowledge of the business through further visits to production sites, meetings with Group THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REVIEWS THE management and reporting on the Groups half year interim statement.
STRUCTURE, SIZE AND COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONSIDERING AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor through the Audit Committee, whose terms of AND MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE BOARD reference include a requirement to oversee the commissioning, and monitor the level, of non-audit work performed by the external auditor, to ensure ON NEW APPOINTMENTS OF EXECUTIVE AND objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
There is an established policy concerning the types of non-audit services the external auditor should NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
not carry out to avoid compromising their independence and these include internal accounting or other financial reporting services, internal audit, tax advice, legal, actuarial or valuation services, executive or management roles or functions and remuneration consultancy.
The Audit Committee Chairs approval is required prior to awarding to the external auditor any reporting accountant, or corporate transaction work or any other non-audit services in excess of 30,000.
COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and considered the following factors to assess the objectivity and independence of PwC: The Chief Executive and Finance Director attend by The auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence, including those to ensure that the partners and staff have no personal invitation as required.
or business relationships with the Group, other than those in the normal course of business permitted by UK ethical guidance.
Committee Members Meetings attended The Company Secretary also attends meetings as The degree of challenge to management and the level of professional scepticism shown by the audit partner and the audit team throughout Martin Davey Chair secretary to the Committee.
The auditors policies for rotation of the audit partner every five years, and regular rotation of key audit personnel.
The current Audit Partner FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS Ian Morrison was selected by PwC to lead the tender process and their first audit of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2018 with the Steven Esom The Committee meets as necessary and at current Audit Senior Manager joining the audit team shortly after the tender process was completed.
The nature of non-audit work undertaken during the year and its approval in accordance with the Audit Committees guidelines for ensuring independence.
Kate Allum INDEPENDENCE Adherence to the Groups internal policy that, other than in exceptional circumstances, the fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit work Except for the Chair, all Members of the in any one year should not exceed 70 per cent of the external audit fee on average over the last three years.
Mark Reckitt A report from PwC confirming that they have adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out below: Non-audit fees 000 KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017-18 Interim review 15 Other services 2 Board Composition Diversity Total Non-Audit Fees 17 Recommended the appointment of independent Non-Executive Reviewed the Groups diversity policy.
Total Audit Fees 231 Directors, Pam Powell and Tim Smith.
Considered implications of the Parker Review and second Ratio of Non-Audit Fees to Audit Fees 0.07:1 Recommended the reappointment of Steven Esom as a Hampton-Alexander Review for the Group.
Governance and evaluation The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year was well below the 70 per cent limit set out in the Groups policy.
Reviewed the Governance Section of the 2018 Annual Report and Succession planning The non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor during the year was limited to the review of the Groups interim results and a grant claim recommended it to the Board for approval.
review which the Audit Committee does not consider would provide a threat to PwCs independence.
Reviewed and updated succession plans for the Board and Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Considered FRC consultation on changes to the UK Corporate The Audit Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the policy of awarding non-audit services is Reviewed Group talent management programme.
kept under review to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between the Group realising cost-effective benefits from the accumulated Internal evaluation of Committees effectiveness undertaken.
knowledge and experience of PwC, whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
Non-executive directors Following consideration of the performance and independence of the external auditor at its meeting in May 2018, the Audit Committee Reviewed the continued independence of the Nonrecommended to the Board that the reappointment of PwC as the Companys external auditor should be proposed to Shareholders at the Executive Directors.
Reviewed Non-Executive Director time commitments and overboarding.
Mark Reckitt Chair of the Audit Committee 22 May 2018 62 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 63 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ACCOUNTABILITY NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT As Chair of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce its report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
DIVERSITY POLICY Diversity of workforce Cranswick recognises the benefits of bringing together a wide variety BOARD APPOINTMENTS of backgrounds and experiences and is therefore firmly committed 88 During 2017, the Company commenced a search for additional Non-Executive Directors which resulted in the appointment of Pam Powell and Tim to developing a diverse workforce that is truly representative of all 7 86% 368 Smith.
The Committee, in consultation with other Board members, agreed the key experience and skills required in November 2017 and engaged sections of society.
All appointments, including recruitments and 78% 76% 4,589 The Zygos Partnership an independent external adviser with no other connection to the Company to assist with the search, which involved the internal promotions, are based on merit, qualification and abilities, 67% preparation of a long and short list for consideration.
and are not influenced or affected by race, colour, nationality, religion or belief, gender, marital status or civil partnership, family status, A number of candidates were interviewed by the Chair, the Chief Executive and members of the Committee following which Pam and Tim were pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, 2,264 recommended to the Board as the Committees preferred candidates.
During the process Pam and Tim met individually with other members of disability or age.
33% 118 2 the Board following which the proposed appointment was unanimously approved by the Board.
Pam and Tim were appointed to the Board with 24% 22% 14 effect from 1 April 2018 and have also become members of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Nomination Committee believes that diversity strengthens 14% the Board and that it is important that the Board is not made up Total Board Senior Managers Graduates and During the year, the Board and Nomination Committee also agreed to reappoint Steven Esom as a Non-Executive Director for a further year.
In exclusively of like-minded individuals with similar backgrounds.
Whilst Employees and Executives Apprentices reaching this decision the Board considered Stevens considerable accumulated knowledge of the Group, experience as a non-executive director continuing to appoint on merit, the Nomination Committee will of listed companies and extensive food sector experience, which the Group wished to retain.
However, Steven will have served as a Director for actively consider opportunities to increase the diversity of the Board Male 9 years at the end of his renewed term in November 2018, when he will retire as a Director in accordance with the principles of good corporate and senior management, with a view to moving towards meeting the Female governance.
On behalf of the Board and Shareholders I would like to thank Steven for his continued support and guidance to the Company recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews.
during his time as a Director.
The gender breakdown of the workforce is set out alongside.
All directors will be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has set out in the Notice of the Meeting its reasons for supporting the re-election of the Directors and their biographical details on pages 48 and 49 demonstrate the range of experience and skills GOVERNANCE AND EVALUATION which each brings to the benefit of the Company.
The Committee considered its terms of reference to ensure they reflect the Committees remit, and concluded that they remain appropriate.
SUCCESSION The Committee will keep the composition of the Board under review.
The Committee will carefully consider the balance of skills, experience and The Committee is also considering the Financial Reporting Councils independence on the Board when considering any appointment and will make any appointment against objective criteria on the basis of merit.
review of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the implications this is likely to have for the Company.
As part of the planned transition of executive responsibilities in the Group, I will reduce my part time executive responsibilities from September 2018.
Consequently, from September, I will cease to participate in the Groups bonus scheme and any new LTIP awards.
I will be attending the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committees activities.
Consideration was also given by the Committee to the continued independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including their term in office, the time commitment required from each of them taking into account the number of meetings and preparation and attendance at those meetings.
On behalf of the Committee It was concluded that all Non-Executive Directors remained independent and devoted an appropriate amount of time to fulfil their responsibilities.
The Committee has considered director overboarding and it is pleased to note that there are no issues at the current time.
It believes that the Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time and energy to be effective representatives of Shareholders interests.
Martin Davey Chairman 22 May 2018 64 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 65 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION THE REMUNERATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REPORT THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ESTABLISHES THE STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION On behalf of the Remuneration Committee LLP, and will be asking Shareholders to approve If the new Remuneration Policy is approved AND DETERMINES THE APPROPRIATE PERFORMANCE and the Board, I am pleased to present the a revised remuneration policy at the Companys by Shareholders, it will become effective Remuneration Committee Report for the Annual General Meeting on 30 July 2018. immediately for three years until the CONDITIONS FOR THE ANNUAL CASH BONUS AND year ended 31 March 2018.
We will also be asking Shareholders to Companys Annual General Meeting in 2021.
approve amendments to the Companys As with prior years, Shareholders will also be This report sets out our Directors Remuneration Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in order asked to pass an advisory vote on the Annual Report for 2018.
This year we continued to apply to reflect the proposed changes to the Report on Remuneration at the forthcoming the remuneration policy that was adopted Remuneration Policy.
in 2015, but which is due to expire in July.
Consequently, we have also reviewed our A summary of the key changes proposed COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES existing policy with the help of independent is set out below with the full new remuneration There were four meetings held during the year.
The attendance The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director attend executive remuneration consultants, Deloitte policy set out in Part 3. of members at the meetings was as follows: by invitation as required no individual is involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary also attends meetings as secretary Pay element Current 2015 Policy New 2018 Policy Committee Members Meetings attended to the Committee.
Steven Esom Chair Base Salary Movement in line with RPI.
Future increases will usually be in line with increases applied to the wider workforce.
FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
Kate Allum Deferral of Bonuses No deferral.
For new Executive Director appointments there will be a two-year deferral for INDEPENDENCE any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary until the individual meets their All Members of the Committee are independent.
minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of salary.
Mark Reckitt Bonus Performance Based on Adjusted PBT.
Flexibility has been introduced to allow the mix and weighting of bonus Measures performance measures to reflect the most appropriate strategic priorities for the year.
However, there is no intention to move away from adjusted PBT as the annual bonus measure.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017-18 Interim Bonus Payments Fixed element of bonus is payable No interim bonuses will be payable.
Flexibility has also been introduced to Review of Remuneration Policy LTIP awards based on the first half of the year.
amend formulaic outcomes if this does not appropriately reflect the overall business performance for the year.
Appointed independent remuneration consultants to advise Reviewed the outcome of performance conditions for the LTIP the Committee.
awards which were granted in 2014.
Maximum LTIP Awards Normal maximum of 150% Normal maximum to be increased to 200% and the exceptional maximum to Reviewed the existing Remuneration Policy and proposed Approved LTIP awards granted in 2017. of salary and an exceptional 250% of salary to ensure the new Remuneration Policy has sufficient headroom amendments.
Under the to offer competitive incentive levels that reflect recent and expected future current policy 25% of the EPS growth in the scale and complexity of the business.
Executive Director and senior executive remuneration Shareholder engagement element and 30% of the TSR While the policy gives us flexibility to determine appropriate performance Reviewed Executive Directors and other senior executives Engaged with major Shareholders in relation to proposed new element vest at threshold measures to reflect our strategic priorities, awards for the year ending 31 March base salaries.
performance which equates 2019 will be subject to EPS and TSR conditions consistent with the old policy, to 41.25% of salary for a maximum and there is no current intention to change that for future years.
Performance Approval of bonuses Other Activities award of 150%.
targets for the year ending 31 March 2019 have been increased to ensure the level of stretch is commensurate with the increased award opportunity.
Awards Set objectives for the annual bonus arrangements for 2018 for Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
for the year ending 31 March 2019 will vest as to 18.75% of the EPS element and Executive Directors and senior executives.
Reviewed the Annual Remuneration Report for 2017.
22.5% of the TSR element at threshold performance, which equates to 41.25% Reviewed the achievement of the Executive Directors bonus Reviewed employee benefit structures and approved the issue of salary for a maximum award of 200% of salary this is the same value that arrangements against 2017 targets.
of the SAYE share scheme for 2017. would vest at threshold performance as under the old policy.
In the new policy, Reviewed interim bonuses for Executive Directors against 2018 target.
we have expressed threshold vesting as not more than 41.25% of salary.
Flexibility has been added to grant part of the LTIP award as a tax qualifying Company Share Option Plan CSOP option to give tax advantages to the Company and the participant, without increasing the pre-tax value of the award.
66 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 67 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED This report contains the following separate package for Executive Directors that will be REMUNERATION FOR 2019 sections: linked to long-term performance and the Executive Directors other than Martin Davey OUR PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR Part 1 The Chairs annual statement strategic development of the Companys who waived his contractual entitlement to on pages 67 to 68. business, which we believe increases the level an increase this year were awarded a pay Cranswick has made further strong strategic, Adjusted profit before tax m Adjusted earnings per share Part 2 Remuneration at a glance on of alignment with the Companys long-term increase of 3 per cent effective from 1 May commercial and financial progress during 22.4% 19.9% pages 69 to 70. performance.
2018 in line with the senior executives and the year.
Part 3 Full details of the new the wider workforce.
Bonus opportunities will 2016 64.4 2016 102.8 remuneration policy and, subject to Additionally, minor changes are proposed remain unchanged at 150 per cent of salary 75.5 120.9 2017 2017 Shareholder approval, how this will be to reflect latest corporate governance and for 2019 and, subject to approval of the new applied in the next financial year on pages market developments.
remuneration policy by Shareholders, LTIP 2018 92.4 2018 145.0 17.6% 71 to 76. awards will be increased from 150 per cent Part 4 The Annual Report on As part of our review, the Committee of salary to 200 per cent of salary for 2019.
Performance graph Total Shareholder Return Remuneration on pages 77 to 82 which consulted with the Companys major The bonus and LTIP awards will continue to 700 discloses how the existing policy has been Shareholders and various investor bodies to be subject to stretching targets on the same applied during the year.
Those elements of obtain their views on the proposed changes.
basis as previous years, namely 100 per cent 600 part 4 subject to external audit are clearly The Committee received general support for on Adjusted Group profit before tax for the identified.
its proposals and various suggestions made annual bonus, and 50 per cent on EPS and 50 500 by those consulted were adopted and are per cent on Relative TSR for LTIP awards.
NEW REMUNERATION POLICY reflected in the new remuneration policy 400 11% The Committees view on our existing being proposed to Shareholders.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 300 remuneration policy reflected during our Ongoing engagement by the Chairman, consultation with major Shareholders is 2018 BONUSES Chief Executive and Finance Director Share price increase to 2,844p 200 that it is easily understood and has delivered Bonus awards for 2018 reflect the impressive has ensured that key Shareholders have at 31 March 2018. appropriate rewards to our Executive Directors performance delivered in the year outlined been regularly updated on progress and 100 for an impressive performance, both in the below.
The maximum bonus of 150 per cent performance throughout the year.
In addition, Companys underlying performance and of base salary has been awarded to each of the Committee conducted a separate 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 growth in Shareholder value.
consultation exercise on the proposed changes to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
See pages 18 and 19 for Strategic progress and KPIs.
Cranswick FTSE All Share FTSE 350 Food Producers The aim of the review has therefore been to Further details are shown on page 77. build upon and enhance our existing policy The Committee is pleased to report that 97 rather than to redesign the whole basis upon 2018 LTIP AWARDS per cent of those voting voted in favour of REMUNERATION IN 2018 which the Executive Directors are compensated.
The LTIP Awards granted in 2015 were based the Remuneration Committees Report at Our focus during the review has been to ensure on the three-year performance period from last years AGM and the full breakdown of The Committee ensures that executive remuneration targets are stretching, aligned to business strategy to drive long-term Shareholder value that the new policy supports the Companys April 2015 to March 2018 and were subject to the votes is reported on page 82. and reflect the performance of the business during the period under review.
Executive Directors rewards excluding base salary and benefits strategy and, in particular incentivises the adjusted EPS 50 per cent and TSR 50 per are two-fold: short term by way of a cash bonus: and longer term by way of share awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Executive Directors to deliver an enhanced cent targets.
Performance over the threeOn behalf of the Board, I would like to thank performance over the long-term for the year period as measured against each of Shareholders for their continued support.
Martin Davey Adam Couch Mark Bottomley Jim Brisby TARGETS OUTCOMES benefit of Shareholders.
We have also sought these metrics has been very strong, with the Should you have any questions on, or would Bonus Achieved Adjusted Group profit before tax Salary 313 616 407 407 to keep our remuneration structures simple maximum target threshold met in both cases.
like to discuss any further aspect of, our of 92.4 million maximum bonus achieved and to update our policies so that they reflect Consequently, 100 per cent of the award will remuneration strategy I can be contacted Benefits 31 32 31 30 100% 150% of salary.
Performance measured developing best practice.
This is reflected in the at steven.
over the three year period ending 31 March Pension 63 123 81 81 table on page 78.
Adjusted profit before tax 2018, EPS growth was RPI 16.40%, and TSR Our new remuneration policy places a greater Bonus 470 925 611 611 LTIP achieved the 100th percentile.
LTIP awards emphasis on rewarding long-term success The Committee also awarded nil-cost share LTIP 861 1,654 1,096 1,086 made in August 2015 will therefore vest in through the proposed changes to the maximum options under the existing LTIP scheme to 50% full in August 2018 in respect of both the SAYE 13 awards under the Companys LTIP, whilst senior executives, including the Executive EPS EPS and TSR elements.
allowing sufficient flexibility to adapt to any Directors, during the year.
The number of Steven Esom Total 1,751 3,350 2,226 2,215 changes to the business during the three shares awarded to each Executive Director Chair of the Remuneration Committee 50% year life of the remuneration policy.
This is was equivalent to 150 per cent of base salary combined with stretched targets to achieve based on the market value of the Companys 22 May 2018 See page 77 for more details.
Relative TSR such maximum award levels.
Consequently, shares at the date of award.
These awards the restated remuneration policy will increase are reflected in the table on page 80. the proportion of the overall remuneration REMUNERATION FOR 2019 2018 BONUSES Salary 3% increase to Directors salaries other than Martin Davey in line with senior executives and the wider workforce.
Measure Threshold Maximum Actual Bonus Opportunities unchanged at 150% of salary for 2018-19.
Adjusted profit before tax 82.1m 90.3m 96.4m 97% Stretching target unchanged from previous years at 100% on Adjusted Bonus payable 20% 150% 150% Group profit before tax.
of Shareholders voting voted Note: Adjusted profit before tax targets are stated before deduction of bonuses paid to LTIP awards Subject to Shareholder approval, award levels to be increased in favour of the Remuneration Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officer.
Committees Report at last Stretching target unchanged from previous years at 50% on EPS years AGM.
68 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 69 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2018-19 The following charts illustrate the potential pay opportunities for the Executive Directors under three different performance scenarios for the year REMUNERATION ending 31 March 2019.
2,983 POLICY 3,000 41% This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which, subject to Shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, shall take binding effect from the close of that meeting.
2,500 LINK BETWEEN POLICY, STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE Our remuneration policy is principally designed to align the interests of Executive Directors and senior executives with the Companys strategic vision and the creation of sustainable long-term value for our stakeholders without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The Policy is intended to remunerate our Executive Directors competitively and appropriately for effective delivery of this and allows them to share in this 1,983 1,983 2,000 1,888 success and the value delivered to Shareholders.
The principles and values that underpin the remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent 41% 41% 32% basis for all Group employees.
It is the Groups policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
32% 1,500 The remuneration package is in two parts, to provide competitive total remuneration: 1,260 1,260 1,234 a non-performance part represented by fixed remuneration basic salary, pension and benefits : and 25% 32% 32% 51% a significant performance related element in the form of an annual bonus and long-term share-based awards.
32% 32% 1,000 822 794 The details of individual components of the remuneration package are set out below: 25% 25% 38% 27% 43% 100% Purpose and Performance Maximum 536 536 16% link to strategy Operation metrics entitlement 500 409 12% 27% 43% 100% 27% 43% 100% 33% 50% 100% Base salary To provide a market Periodic reviews of market rates.
While no formal Whilst there is no maximum salary, increases competitive base Base salaries are ordinarily reviewed performance will normally be within the range of salary 0 MaximumOn Target FixedMaximum On Target FixedMaximum On Target FixedMaximum On Target Fixed salary to attract and annually taking into account a number conditions apply, increases awarded in percentage of salary retain executives.
of factors including but not limited to : an individuals terms to other employees in the Group.
Martin Davey Adam Couch Mark Bottomley Jim Brisby performance in role the individuals skills, experience and is taken into account However, higher increases may be awarded Fixed pay Bonus LTIP responsibilities: in determining any in appropriate circumstances, such as: pay increases within the Group more salary increase.
generally: and an increase in scope of the role or the performance, group profitability and individuals responsibilities: In illustrating the potential reward, the following assumptions have been made: prevailing market conditions.
where an individual has been appointed Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP to the Board at a lower than typical Minimum performance Base salary effective at No bonus No LTIP vesting Any changes will usually take effect market salary to allow for growth in the 1 May 2018, employer pension from 1 May.
role, in which case larger increases may Performance in line with Bonus equal to 50% of LTIP vests as to 50% of the contributions of 20% of that be awarded to move salary positioning expectations the opportunity is earned maximum award 100% of salary.
salary, and benefits disclosed Martin Davey is entitled to an annual increase to a typical market level as the individual i. e. 75% of salary.
in the single figure table for the of not less than RPI under his service agreement gains experience: Maximum performance Bonus equal to 150% of salary LTIP vests in full 200% of salary.
year ending 31 March 2018. agreed in 2006. change in size and complexity of the is earned.
Group: and or significant market movement.
Such increases may be implemented over such time period as the Committee deems appropriate.
Pension To provide a Executive Directors are entitled to nonN A Maximum employer pension contribution framework to save contributory membership of the Groups and or cash payment in lieu, up to 20% of for retirement.
Alternatively, at their option, Executive Directors may receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution, subject to the normal statutory deductions.
Pension contributions may also be made in lieu of salary.
70 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 71 000
