Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED OUR COMMITMENT TO OPERATING EXCELLENCE IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR CONTINUED LONG-TERM INVESTMENT IN OUR INFRASTRUCTURE, OUR PRODUCTION PROCESSES AND OUR PEOPLE.
Our Continental Foods business has grown substantially over recent years, sourcing new products from premium suppliers across the globe that deliver on taste and provide exciting new eating experiences.
We also produce British premium cured meats, prepared in the traditional artisan way using the finest ingredients, under both the Woodalls brand and retail customer own label.
This success, together with a growing market for convenient meal solutions with inspiring tastes, has resulted in our two Manchester facilities operating at full capacity.
To support future growth we have invested 28 million in a new purpose-built facility based in Bury, Lancashire.
This will consolidate production from the two existing sites, increase current capacity by approximately 70 per cent and will add new capability and drive efficiency improvements on existing product ranges.
The new facility will be fully operational by summer 2018.
Operating Excellence 59m Total capital investment during the year 20.3% Return on capital employed 24 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 25 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED Learning and development We are committed to ensuring that modern During the year we have developed a five-year We continue to focus on our appraisal slavery or human trafficking are excluded strategy for Health & Safety which gives us OPERATING process and development plans to ensure from our supply chains and our business.
Our a platform to continue to manage Health & that we have the necessary skill sets in place anti-slavery policy reflects our commitment Safety proactively and ensure our standards of to facilitate future succession planning.
This to acting ethically and with integrity in all our excellence in compliance are maintained across EXCELLENCE process feeds into development dashboards business relationships and to implementing all sites as well as controlling new and emerging across the business, which are used to identify and enforcing effective systems and controls risks to a reasonably practicable level.
learning and succession gaps and how these to ensure slavery and human trafficking do will be filled in the future.
not take place throughout our supply chains.
With the increasing complexity of equipment Further details can be found on the Groups and legislation surrounding its design and use, INVESTMENT IN OUR INFRASTRUCTURE, OUR PRODUCTION PROCESSES In 2017 we trained 275 colleagues in soft website: www.
our engineering teams have been trained in AND OUR PEOPLE CONTINUES TO DRIVE THE LONG-TERM SUCCESS OF skills or management development either machinery safety and any new machinery will OUR BUSINESS.
through Group-wide learning programmes We conduct business in an open and honest not be used unless it complies with the latest or site level programmes specifically targeting way, without the use of corrupt practices or Certificate of Conformity CEE regulations key requirements for local teams and acts of bribery.
We expect all our customers, and has undertaken an assessment in line managers of the future.
We also continue suppliers and business associates to support with the Provision & Use of Work Equipment to use personal coaching to support the this policy.
This code of conduct is reflected Regulations PUWER.
INVESTING IN OUR ASSET BASE and purpose.
The HR strategy includes opportunities within our business and to targeted development needs of our middle in our anti-bribery policy which all employees We have invested a record 59 million across sustainability initiatives to attract and retain support our apprentices ongoing education and senior management colleagues, and are made aware of and commit to when Annual internal Health & Safety audits are our asset base during the year to support talented individuals with the necessary skills needs.
With college leavers looking for executive coaching to support our Directors joining the Group.
The policy sets out clear carried out to measure the Health & Safety long-term growth, introduce new capabilities to deliver our long-term business goals and alternative routes into education we will in developing their existing skills.
We will be requirements and procedures on matters such standards at each of our sites to confirm they and drive further operating efficiency gains.
We encourage our employees harness this trend by further developing running two further programmes in 2018 to as giving and receiving gifts and hospitality, achieve the required standard and provide an Our production facilities have benefitted from to express their views via Works Councils our apprenticeship programmes to attract support middle and senior managers as we and periodic training is undertaken to reinforce action plan for the following twelve months.
this commitment to ongoing investment over or through Union membership.
Employees and retain the best students to support our continue to build our leadership skills base.
Employees are encouraged to report any During the year we continued to develop many years and they are some of the most have a worker representative, who may be long-term succession planning.
Further details concerns directly to management or through Health & Safety standards across our business.
efficient and well invested in the sectors in a union representative, to air their views on can be found on page 8.
Providing appropriate training to all employees an independent whistleblowing line.
The safety of employees is key and we are which we operate.
We want our employees is vital for the successful delivery of our Group continuing to investigate new behavioural to feel valued and we see them as critical Graduate development Health & Safety standards.
All new employees Further details of our diversity policy are safety programmes which will further improve Investment ensures that we have sufficient stakeholders in our business.
We have a Our graduate recruitment scheme continues undertake a Health & Safety induction course shown in the Nomination Committee report the culture of our business.
capacity headroom to meet our growth training and development strategy to deliver to be highly effective, with graduates placed including fire safety, manual handling, task on pages 63 to 65. aspirations, we provide facilities which workforce capabilities, skills and competencies across even more Group locations this year.
and machinery training in their working Our plan is to ensure all our sites are accredited meet our customers exacting specifications through apprenticeship and graduate We attended 14 university recruitment fairs environment.
We also provide ongoing Health Keeping our people safe and healthy to the ISO45001 Health & Safety Management and that we provide a safe and secure development schemes, a mentoring across the UK, and positive responses to & Safety training throughout employment.
We strive as a business to comply with all Systems by 2020. environment for our workforce.
programme and management training our programme over recent years mean we All our employees and agency staff are task applicable Health & Safety standards and courses.
Succession planning is proactively continue to attract exceptional applicants.
trained to safe working procedures for any regulations, and adopt industry best practice The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Expenditure in the year, whilst focused on managed and employees are offered career Over the last four years we have recruited equipment or task they work on.
We have across all our sites.
Our Group Health & Safety Dangerous Occurrences Regulations our Continental Foods business, was spread opportunities which support staff retention 27 graduates, finding permanent roles for 13, suitable systems for communicating Health team implements and monitors new initiatives RIDDORS rate was higher than the previous across our production facilities as we continue and ultimately a sustainable and stable whilst 9 remain on the programme.
& Safety training for our non-English speaking to maintain excellent standards.
The RIDDORS incident ratio accident to successfully grow and develop.
reviews quarterly accident and claims against number of employees increased by 56 now invested in excess of 270 million in our Mentoring statistics and management review monthly per cent compared to 2017.
The total number infrastructure over the last eight years.
For Attracting and managing talent This year we have established a mentoring An integrated and diverse workforce accident statistics using an industry leading of recorded accidents per 100 employees in further information about capital projects Apprenticeships programme to support the career progression Encouraging the principles of equality and web-based recording system which allows 2018 was 13 per cent higher than in 2017. delivered during the year, see the Operating Following the introduction of the new of some of our key people.
We have trained diversity underpins our successful and inclusive analysis of each accident and monitors control and Financial Review on pages 38 to 40.
Apprenticeship Levy, we now have over 18 mentors to assist colleagues in high quality business culture.
All employment decisions, measures introduced to prevent recurrence.
The increase in accident rates at the start of 90 apprentices across several disciplines, decision making by acting as a confidential including recruitment and internal promotions, The system includes a tracker to ensure all the financial year has driven additional focus DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE with a particularly strong focus on Butchery sounding board, providing support in working are based on merit, qualification and abilities, required actions are completed within the and we have seen these rates falling back in We are committed to inspiring and developing and Engineering.
The programme enables through crucial and often difficult and and are not influenced or affected by race, specified time period.
apprentices to gain cross-functional skills complex decisions.
We see mentoring as colour, nationality, religion or belief, sex, Our Human Resources HR strategy is which are positively recognised across the another important component of our talent marital status or civil partnership, family Our Group Health & Safety team is led by Accidents per 100 Employees embedded in our Sustainability policy and industry.
We are working closely with local support and succession planning initiatives.
status, pregnancy or maternity, sexual the Group Health & Safety Manager with overall strategic plan and underpins our vision colleges and universities both to promote orientation, gender reassignment, disability or the assistance of two Group Health & Safety 7.6 age.
We have recruited over 2,000 individuals Coordinators who work under the guidance 6.7 6.7 over the last year and we will continue of our Group Compliance Controller.
All our Our new Continental Foods facility in Bury, Lancashire.
to develop our business model to recruit sites have a dedicated Health & Safety more permanent employees as part of Manager to provide the highest standards of our commitment to ensuring stability for all Health & Safety management.
All our Health our workforce regardless of nationality.
We & Safety Managers and Coordinators hold the currently employ more than 10,400 staff appropriate National Examination Board in of whom more than 6,800 are permanent Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH 0.98 0.66 0.63 workers, encompassing over 50 nationalities.
We are also providing our management team with Health & Safety 2016 2017 2018 We recognise the benefits of diversity and our training from the Institute of Safety and diversity policy provides equality and fairness.
Total There are no differences in the pay structure RIDDORS for males and females performing the same or similar roles.
Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap report can be found on the Groups website: www.
uk 26 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 27
