Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED OUR LONG-TERM GROWTH STRATEGY IS TO CONSOLIDATE EXISTING MARKET POSITIONS, DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND CHANNELS IN OUR CORE UK MARKET AND GROW OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND CUSTOMER BASE.
In 2014 we entered the UK poultry sector with the acquisition of our Cooked Poultry business in Hull.
This was followed in 2016 by the acquisition of Crown Chicken, which is based in East Anglia.
This provided us with a fully integrated poultry supply chain model, and aligned with our strategic objective of diversification into the rapidly growing poultry market.
Recent consumer trends for healthier and more convenient meals have driven sustained growth in the poultry market, with chicken seen as a versatile protein that is also competitively priced.
We are developing innovative, great tasting poultry products with a focus on premium Ready to Cook and added value chicken.
We have made significant investment in our Cooked Poultry facility since acquisition, which has led to the successful launch of contracts with two of the Groups principal retail customers during the year.
We have now committed to building a new world class poultry primary processing facility in Eye, Suffolk, which is scheduled for completion in late 2019.
This will double our existing primary processing capacity with further room for expansion.
We also plan to upscale our farming, feed mill and hatchery operations to maintain our fully integrated supply chain model.
824 Sales Growth new products launched during the year 7.2% of total revenue from new products 28 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 29 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ST STR RA AT TE EG GY I Y IN A N ACT CTI IO ON N CONTINUED SALES 12.7% 20.7% GROWTH Like-for-like revenue increase Increase in like-for-like export revenue OUR LONG-TERM GROWTH STRATEGY IS TO CONSOLIDATE EXISTING MARKET POSITIONS, DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND CHANNELS IN OUR CORE UK MARKET AND GROW OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND CUSTOMER BASE.
DRIVING THE CORE EXPANDING OUR OFFER SEEKING NEW OPPORTUNITIES DELIVERING ON OUR GROWTH STRATEGY CONSOLIDATION OF EXISTING MARKET POSITIONS DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS AND CHANNELS GROWING OUR INTERNATIONAL By establishing meaningful and long-lasting Our retail customers account for over 70 per cent of our revenues and we We have diversified our product range and customer base in recent years by OPERATIONS AND CUSTOMER BASE relationships with our customers and focusing continue to gain market share.
Provenance, food quality and animal welfare entering the fast growing premium fresh and cooked poultry market.
We have made further progress during the year primarily on the growing premium end of the markets have become increasingly important for our customers and consumers in in developing our export trade.
China, the worlds in which we operate, we have made good progress recent years, and our strong reputation and ongoing commitment in these The acquisition of the premium cooked poultry business, Benson Park, in 2014 largest pork producer and consumer, remains our on delivering our growth strategy during the year.
areas continues to drive growth.
followed by our acquisition of the fresh poultry business, Crown Chicken, in 2016, most important market, and during the year we means we can now offer our customers a fully integrated British chicken supply received approval to export product from our Outstanding product quality and customer service For many years we have invested heavily in our infrastructure and this year chain for both fresh and cooked products.
Ballymena facility directly into China.
We also levels combined with a drive to innovate has we spent a record 59 million across our asset base to support future growth.
received Chinese approval to export further underpinned this growth.
This expenditure ensures that our facilities remain some of the most efficient We have now secured listings for premium cooked poultry, sourced from our products from our Hull facility.
and safe in the UK food manufacturing sector and, along with continued own internal supply chain, with two of our principal retail customers.
Our fully investment in our vertically integrated supply chains, underpins our core integrated supply chain from feed mill, to hatchery, through our own farms We also supply baby back ribs from our Hull facility, category growth strategy and supports the development of sustainable and processing facilities to our customers offers a clear point of difference.
which is United States Department of Agriculture long-term contracts with our key retail customers.
USDA approved, into the US market.
We have expanded our range of products for the rapidly developing Ready to Cook and convenience market, with continued investment in Sous Vide cooking Our focus on developing innovative, premium products which remain We have developed new export markets for our technology across our Convenience business.
relevant to our customers and consumers enables us to sustain meaningful premium outdoor bred pork products, including top-line growth.
PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR We delivered like-for-like revenue growth of 12.7 per We made further progress during the year in consolidating our existing market Our premium cooked poultry business grew strongly, driven by new listings with Total export revenue grew by 30.2 per cent during cent reflecting strong progress in our core markets.
positions by securing new business with our key retail customers.
This business two of our principal retail customers.
was spread across our product categories, and included volume growth at We secured new premium cooked poultry business Ballymena following the completion of the butchery hall extension which Growth in our Convenience business has been underpinned by new product Like-for-like export revenue grew by 20.7 per cent.
with two of our Groups principal retail customers.
launches in the fast growing Slow Cook and Ready to Cook ranges.
Growth was underpinned by sales to our more Sales to European markets grew strongly, and reflected New product development enables us to deliver innovative premium products New business launched at the start of the year with a large national food-totraditional EU markets, driven by stronger European increased volumes and higher prices resulting from which are relevant to the rapidly changing markets in which we operate.
go customer has driven strong volume growth in our premium pastry business.
prices and favourable exchange rates.
favourable Sterling : Euro exchange rates.
7.2 per cent of revenue in the year was attributable to new product launches.
We are growing our e-commerce business in China, for both premium and standard pork products.
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES We will explore further growth opportunities by: We will continue to grow by gaining market share in existing tiers, moving We will continue to leverage our existing retail relationships to grow our New products continue to be developed with which continuing to leverage our strong customer into adjacent tiers and though building capacity in our facilities and our premium cooked poultry business.
to access both new and existing export markets.
relationships: identifying new routes to market: supply chains.
developing new products: expanding into adjacent On completion of the new poultry facility at Eye, Suffolk at the end of 2019, Continued investment at our primary processing tiers in our existing category portfolio: and We are investing 4 million in our Wayland farming operation to increase breeding we will also have the capacity and capability to offer more fresh poultry to facilities provides increased capacity which not only broadening our reach in international markets.
and finishing capacity of premium pigs in response to customer demand.
our principal retail customers, with Crown having already secured a contract adds scale to our UK pork business but also provides to supply fresh whole birds to one of the Groups strategic retail customers more product for our international export trade.
Our new Continental Products facility in Bury, Lancashire, which will be fully shortly after the year end.
operational by the summer of 2018, will add substantial capacity for this part We are continuing to develop direct relationships with of our business.
Substantial investment in research and development and product innovation Chinese and other international customers, and this will also continue to drive growth in new channels and product categories.
30 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 31
