Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED A PILOT SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT AT OUR GOURMET PASTRY SITE HAS ENHANCED EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNITY OUTREACH AND CREATED MOMENTUM FOR OUR NEW GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY, SECOND NATURE.
During the year an internal assessment reviewed current sustainability performance and improvement opportunities, and a stakeholder survey and leadership round-table session brought the Sustainable Development Goals SDGs to life for employees.
A key objective of the programme was to reduce waste and increase reuse opportunities throughout our supply chain.
A detailed analysis was carried out, which enabled the site to develop a clear strategy on how to achieve zero waste status and create a system to achieve waste reduction by product through improved efficiencies.
M&S Environment Week was used as an opportunity to initiate the employee engagement campaign, raising awareness of key environmental issues and encouraging employees to think about how they can 100% proactively reduce waste, water and energy use.
Out of 50 suppliers who took part in We are committed to achieving the Environment Week initiative, Cranswick 100% recyclable packaging by 2025.
Gourmet Pastry was awarded the Best Individual Site Campaign by M&S.
Sustainability Alongside the behavioural change activity, the site has also been externally recognised during the year for its resource efficiency and waste reduction achievements, winning the Best Prevention Project Award Food at the Waste2Zero awards.
78% Following the successful results at Gourmet of Cranswick employees want to be Pastry, the programme is now being rolled involved in sustainability projects.
32 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 33 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We want to be agents of change, addressing key SUSTAINABILITY environmental and social issues from farm-to-fork.
Second Nature is not just a project: it is a movement whereby we fully intend to change the world we AS AN INDUSTRY LEADER, WE EMBRACE MANY OPPORTUNITIES TO MAKE A operate in.
DIFFERENCE AND OUR BUSINESS DECISIONS ARE MADE WITH A CLEAR FOCUS Jim Brisby, Group Commercial Director ON OUR COMMITMENT TO BOTH ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
We recognise that our sustainability reporting We wish to set a precedent on how businesses This will empower each site to translate needs to be much more than mere disclosure tackle issues around sustainability taking Second Nature into a realistic operating PLASTIC REDUCTION as it is a true insight into how we do business.
responsibility and using our scale to drive roadmap that is user-friendly to ensure ROADMAP Most importantly, we approach sustainability systemic change.
We recognise that as a the strategy connects with the day job as a long-term, collaborative effort.
No single leading food business we need to look beyond of the people it will impact, joining the As part of the Second Nature initiative, we have made some immediate commitments: All our packaging will be company or industry can tackle these our own internal operational efficiencies dots from strategy to action.
100 per cent recyclable and challenges alone.
Working together, however, and have designed Second Nature to deliver we can create sustainable solutions for the against four key principles: Our new sustainability strategy will give us a sustainably sourced.
Materiality focusing on what matters most competitive advantage through innovation, Where dual materials are required WE WILL ELIMINATE AVOIDABLE FOOD Regenerative creating long-term, efficiency, responsiveness and building strong to maintain product quality and WASTE BY 2030 In February 2018, we announced the launch of sustained and absolute impact partnerships.
Creating shared value and minimise food waste, these will and have become an official Friend of Champions 12.3 Second Nature, our Group-wide sustainability Systemic influencing change across a profitable business are instrumental in only be from materials that are initiative.
This new project, which is being entire systems delivering a balanced sustainability strategy also 100 per cent recyclable and rolled out immediately, contains several major Transparency sharing progress openly and long-term positive legacies in which we sustainably sourced.
and honestly work and live.
All our packaging will be designed to be intuitively Our new sustainability approach has been WE WILL WORK IN PARTNERSHIP Sustainability is now firmly embedded in our Second Nature will activate projects to deliver recycled by the consumer informed by our own stakeholder materiality core business strategy, operations and significant progress against the following core WITH COURTAULD 2025 assessment and globally agreed upon agendas products as evidenced by our continued objectives: and easily recovered through to deliver an ambitious ten year voluntary agreement that and accords like the 2030 Development progress against our goals and commitments 1.
Reduce our environmental impact household recycling collections.
brings together leading organisations committed to reducing the Agenda of the United Nations and its 17 and alignment with the United Nations from farm-to-fork environmental impact of food and drink across the supply chain.
We are forming a new industry Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and Sustainable Development Goals.
Drive agricultural innovation stakeholder group to openly the UN Global Compact, among others.
continue to develop best-in-class innovations 3.
Shift from a linear to a circular collaborate on developing and demonstrate our commitment to business model WE ARE COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING 100 PER CENT circularity in the UK to ensure During the year we performed a sustainability through our products, processes 4.
Create a great place to work RECYCLABLE PACKAGING BY 2025 we have a workable closed-loop comprehensive materiality study to identify and partnerships that advance sustainable 5.
Positively impact our community and to reduce plastic packaging use by 50 per cent by 2025, system.
This is not simply about the most important sustainability topics for agriculture and manufacturing.
and society alongside a call to action for industry stakeholders to collaborate collecting materials for recycling the Group and its stakeholders.
Act ethically and responsibly to take responsibility for the environmental impact of plastics as but using our waste packaging the SDGs that are particularly relevant to our We have seen measurable progress this year 7.
Embrace collaboration and a matter of urgency.
business and our internal stakeholders, our with a renewed commitment to our goals, and radical transparency to replace virgin materials for 10,000 employees.
we look forward to continuing to provide manufacturing our new products.
WE WILL WORK WITH OTHER ORGANISATIONS sustainable solutions that lead our industry.
This has been a pivotal year in our We will test new initiatives to TO DELIVER THE UK PLASTICS PACT sustainability journey.
As we continue to help drive positive consumer driving industry innovation and working towards a wider circular BENCHMARKING PERFORMANCE embed sustainability into our business, we behaviour around recycling plastic system.
AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT are working with collaborators and partners food packaging to make this By August 2018 all of our operating sites will to drive meaningful change.
Weve taken as simple as possible and We need more organisations have been benchmarked against multiple decisive action on climate change and publicly share our findings.
leading global sustainability standards with our clarity of ambition we aim to lead to step up like Cranswick in We will be open and transparent WE WILL PURCHASE 100 PER CENT RENEWABLE and performance metrics using specialist sustainability across agriculture and food order to achieve the Sustainable on our progress and communicate sustainability software.
This is to enable production on a global scale by integrating ELECTRICITY FROM 1 MARCH 2018 us to understand our current performance sustainability as Second Nature to what we updates regularly.
position against best-in-class certifications do, how we work, and why we do it.
Dr Liz Goodwin OBE and identify opportunities to close gaps Senior Fellow and Director of Food Loss and align to global performance standards.
and Waste, World Resources Institute The results of our internal sustainability review in 2017 illustrated how important Specific performance standards we will be sustainability is to our employees and major stakeholders, and it is with great pride working to that will enable us to identify that the Second Nature initiative will be driven by our workforce all 10,000 of them.
and activate projects to meet our targets include multiple ISOs, B-Impact, Courtauld Commitment 2025, BSI 8001 Circular Economy, LEAF Marque, All Key Customer and Supplier Standards, Investors in People TOP 5 SDGs WE CAN IMPACT, AS and ETI Base Code.
VOTED FOR BY OUR WORKFORCE: Engaging our employees during M&S Environment Week at our Gourmet Pastry site.
34 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 35
