Strategic Report Chief Executives Review 6.8% and profit by 4.9%.
Life Sciences university and small enterprise partners to also delivered good year-on-year sales supplement our R&D capability.
Product Case study: andprofit growth, more than offsetting the innovation was also supported by our Investing in Life Sciences Delivering the headwind from the Active Pharmaceutical Smart Partnering Programme, where Ingredient API contract that we exited in wework jointly with other companies December 2017.
Performance Technologies toleverage each others strengths and continued to make encouraging progress expertise.
The output of this greater on actively demarketing higher volume, innovation investment saw sales of Croda difference lower margin products and driving growth Newand Protected Products NPP reach in higher value applications, to create a 28.2% 2017: 27.6% of total Group sales.
In 2018 we invested in new technologies, In line with our value over volume both organically and inorganically.
We philosophy, we continued to prioritise completed construction of the biggest Through investments and acquisition, bottom line growth.
Adjusted profit before capital investment in Crodas history we have enhanced all aspects of our tax was 6.2% higher in constant currency, inNorth America which will introduce Life Sciences sector in recent years.
Return sustainable bio-surfactants to our markets Crop Care and Seed Enhancement Our business model is working onsales increased by 50 basis points to for the first time.
After an initial period of have benefited from the acquisitions 24.7%.
Basic earnings per share EPS successful operation, in November 2018 of both Incotec and Plant Impact, well a dynamic innovation grew by 8.8% and free cash flow asmall leak occurred at the plant, found to andvery recently our Health Care increasedby almost 60%.
be due to an incorrect gasket fitted during business has started to integrate enginecreating exciting products, construction.
A thorough investigation is theexpertise of vaccine adjuvant underway and we will bring the plant back Progress in reported results IFRS specialists Biosector.
Our 2018 on stream in a safe manner later in 2019. balanced global manufacturing and On a reported basis, sales and profit rose results show that, in time, our Until that time, unrecovered operating slightly, as adverse currency translation acquisition and subsequent costs of approximately 2m per quarter unrivalled customer intimacy.
reduced the growth in constant currency.
investment in these businesses arebeing incurred.
There is also a resultant Sales at reported rates increased 1.0% to isyielding results, with our refocus delay in the expected capture of additional 1,386.9m 2017: 1,373.1m.
Profit before ofIncotec seeing their capacity for Steve Foots margin and growth from the exciting new tax on an IFRS basis increased by 1.2% to innovation and product development Group Chief Executive market opportunities created by our ECO 317.8m 2017: 314.1m.
IFRS basic EPS increase, leading to a more than range of green surfactants.
doubling of profit since acquisition.
1 Results are stated in adjusted terms light model.
Stretching the Growth is successful completion of the evaluation We continue to invest in a number of With free cash generation improving and Enhancing our 2 andgrowth at constant currency rates focused on accelerating future sales incore ofalmost 200 higher hazard process smaller, organic capital projects to increase capital investment reducing, the Board Health Care portfolio unless otherwise stated.
Alternative and adjacent markets and technologies to risksidentified across the Group against capacity and develop new technologies.
hasproposed an increase in the full year Our acquisitions help us enhance performance measures are defined drive faster growth and future profitability.
Inaddition, we are investing inorganically, ordinary dividend of 7.4% to 87.0p 2017: ourexisting skillsets across the in the Finance Review.
Ouroccupational health and safety seeking to acquire mid-sized businesses 81.0p, together with an additional return Group.
Through acquiring Biosector Delivering sustained sales performance remained broadly flat at complementary to our existing markets.
ofcapital of 150m, by way of a special we are enhancing our capabilities and anOSHA recordable incident rate of 0.72.
In2015 we acquired Incotec, which gave Our strategy delivering across andprofit growth dividend of 115p per share.
knowledge to strengthen our Health In 2018 we launched a safety leadership us a presence in seed enhancement, a three strong legs of growth Croda continues to deliver sustained Care product portfolio, bringing programme across the global management growing market in Crop Care within our Croda delivers consistently superior salesand profit growth through the Stretching the Growth significant benefits to our customers.
I am delighted with the commitment LifeSciences sector.
Since acquisition, shareholder value by being a leading economic cycle.
In 2018 we further refined investingfor the future Biosector has unprecedented industry of the senior leadership across the Group, wehave refocused Incotec, more than speciality ingredient company, driving the Business, growing profit ahead of Alongside Growing the Core by delivering experience as a vaccine adjuvant with more engagement, visibility and doubling profit and improving innovation sustainable innovation, superior sales, ahead of volume.
Our business consistent sales and profit growth, in 2018 specialist, with their product portfolio audits, putting safety at the top of the capability, delivering a strong return on our performance and creating value model is working well a dynamic we increased investment in Stretching comprising innovative aluminium and agenda.
This programme is expected to initial investment.
Building on this, in 2018 forourcustomers and consumers.
innovation engine creating exciting new theGrowth.
This investment focuses on saponin-based adjuvants.
deliver improvement over the coming we made a complementary acquisition in Ourobjectives are to: products to meet new consumer needs: a accelerating product innovation, investing yearsand help us meet our 2020 OSHA Health Care with the 64m purchase of balanced global manufacturing footprint: in new technologies and increasing recordable incident rate target of 0.60.
Biosector, a leading global specialist Why Biosector?
Deliver consistent top and and an unrivalled direct selling capability, intellectual property.
These investments invaccine adjuvancy, extending our Vaccine adjuvants are a bottomlinegrowth with local customer intimacy.
Within our willaccelerate sales over time, deliver existinghigh purity pharmaceutical Growing the Core complementary extension of our Increase the proportion of Core Business there are three strong legs compelling returns and continue to deliverysystems portfolio.
deliveringstrong performance existing pharmaceutical excipients protectedinnovation of growth Personal Care, Life Sciences underpinrobust cash conversion, all portfolio and we can now offer our Accelerate our customers and Performance Technologies which In 2018 we continued to Grow the Core, drivingenhanced shareholder returns We are also acquiring small, disruptive customers an industry renowned  ingredients.
have robust market positions, leading with the top line momentum seen in 2017 forthe future.
technology companies, using a global product portfolio of adjuvants, technologies and focused innovation.
Sales increased network of over 45 in-house technology including the well-known brands In 2018 we made strong progress in These are driving profit growth and to 1,386.9m, with Core Business sales In 2018 we continued to invest in our scouts across Croda.
In 2017, we purchased Alhydrogel and Adju-Phos, as delivering these three objectives by improved cash generation.
3.8% higher, supported by volume growth product innovation pipeline.
With the IonPhasE, a novel electrostatic dissipative wellas their technically advanced connecting to faster growth markets across the Consumer businesses and opening of our Beijing Crop Care and polymer technology for Performance saponin-based adjuvant systems.
through our Growing the Core and stronger pricing and sales mix.
Safety at the heart of Singapore tribology labs, we now have Technologies, and in 2018 we made two Biosectors rich development Stretching the Growth strategy.
Growing everythingwe do 34customer innovation centres globally, nascent technology acquisitions Nautilus, pipelineis an excellent indication the Core is focused on delivering robust All three Core Business sectors grew Safety is at the centre of everything we do.
enabling us to work more closely with local a marine biotechnology company with oftheir innovative thinking, with top line growth above the market rate, at salesand profit.
Personal Care continued customers to meet their consumers needs.
In 2018 our process safety programme potential applications in Personal Care second and third generation industry-leading margins, with a capitalits strong performance, growing sales by passed a major milestone, with the This in-house innovation was supported by andother markets, and Plant Impact, adjuvantplatforms in development.
a successful Open Innovation programme, aninnovative biostimulant technology 1 Adjusted results are stated before exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, and tax thereon.
where we are working with over 450 2 Constant currency results reflect current year performance for existing business translated at the prior years average exchange rates.
Whilst technology Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued acquisitions typically have limited sales Actives.
Following an initial anchor to recover, increasing 9% in 2018. an increase in the ordinary dividend Croda is making a difference in Superior growth in profitability Alongside gradual macroeconomic andaspecial return of excess capital onacquisition and therefore bring initial investment in 2017, we increased our improvinghealth and wellbeing, reducing inPerformance Technologies profit headwinds, they provide significant minority investment in the multi-award improvement, this growth benefited toshareholders.
the environmental burden on the planet, Performance Technologies continued to frominvestment to expand Crop Care protected future growth opportunities as winning digital device company, Cutitronics.
improving life on land and supporting our transition to a higher value, technologywe commercialise the technologies.
We We also expanded R&D capabilities in production capacity in Brazil to better Sustainability leadership local communities.
In Personal Care, we orientated business.
Sales grew by 1.4%, meetlocal customer needs.
spent 39m on technology acquisitions, Brazil and South Africa, and doubled R&D SmartScience to Improve Lives provide solar protection ingredients to with growth of speciality sales largely offset associates and investments between and operational capacity in our flagship protect consumers from harmful exposure As the worlds population grows, we by exiting higher volume, lower margin In Asia sales were 7% ahead, driven December 2017 and December 2018, Beauty Actives business.
In Health Care, our newly needmore food, more water and more products, with total volume sold 8% lower witha total operating loss from these in Personal Care reached a record 43% bygrowth in Japan, with Personal Care acquired Biosector business is improving energy.
But the world has finite resources year-on-year.
The improved product mix particularly strong.
We continue to expand 2018 of approximately 6m, primarily from oftotal sales 2017: 41%.
vaccine effectiveness to treat global and we need to create a future which is saw adjusted operating profit 15.0% higher Plant Impact.
We expect the operating our reach in Asia with local and regional diseases.
In Crop Protection, we develop sustainable.
With our long heritage of and return on sales increased significantly customers across all sectors.
lossfrom these acquisitions to moderate API sales successfully replaced adjuvants that minimise spray-drift and producing sustainable ingredients from to 18.7% 2017: 16.5%, well on its way in2019 as sales are developed.
In inLife Sciences natural resources, Croda aims to be towards our 20% medium term goal for The market in Europe remained solid, SeedEnhancement, we create coatings aleader, accelerating innovation and Following the 2017 planned exit from its this sector.
2018 also saw new investment withsales up 3%, including the successful that allow precision treatment of active North American API contract, Life Sciences reducing the environmental impacts of integration of IonPhasE and growth in programmes in Digital and Sustainability.
ingredients and reduction in pesticide ouractivities a provider of innovative, successfully replaced these lost sales in In Growing the Core, Performance We created a Digital Centre of Excellence, newer geographic markets in Eastern application.
In our recently acquired Plant 2018, with growth in the rest of the Health sustainable ingredients and technologies, Technologies is driving three core Europe, Middle East and Africa.
to drive greater use of digital selling and Impact business, we develop biostimulants creating positive change for the planet and Care and in the Crop Care businesses.
Energy Technologies saw marketing across Croda, supported by for enhanced plant vigour, promoting Overall sales grew by 2.8% and by 6.7% society, whilst maintaining superior returns.
thestrongest sales growth in 2018, North America growth slowed to 1%, easier access for customers to our rich growth, crop quality and yields to get adjusted to exclude the impact of the drivenby demand for its environmentally libraries of formulation, regulatory and specifically reflecting the exit of the API moreout of the same planted land use.
Adjusted operating profit rose This truly reflects our new purpose friendly lubricant additives which contract, together with slower growth of sustainability data.
This will enable Croda InPerformance Technologies, our phase SmartScience to Improve Lives.
We by3.1%, with return on sales marginally increaseefficiency in automotive and to access the growing number of local Crop Care customers products into the change materials control temperature to lower at 29.5% 2017: 30.1%, following usescience and entrepreneurial spirit to marine engines.
Smart Materials saw sales important China market.
Excluding the API andIndie brand customers emerging ensure safe transportation of essential provide innovative solutions that benefit the acquisition of Plant Impact with its growth in higher value applications whilst across the world.
We also invested in exit, North America sales rose 4%, driven medicines, even in the remotest areas.
our customers, colleagues and the wider reducing sales in lower value markets in by strong Personal Care demand.
highthroughput screening the ability Thisis the Croda Difference and we will world.
We will keep contributing towards polymer additives and coatings.
Home totest large numbers of ingredients using continue to enhance our sustainability In Growing the Core, sales in our Health global environmental and social challenges Care& Water completed its programme artificial intelligence.
Alongside this, we are Robust financial platform leadership to improve lives.
by applying science to create new, better Care business were flat year-on-year, ofreducing low margin sales for oil and enhancing our sustainability leadership supported by lower asstrong growth in high purity excipients and sustainably sourced solutions.
gasapplications, selectively growing its inthe industry, of which more later.
Outlook capitalinvestment offset the API exit.
Crop Protection saw presence in the higher value home care mid single digit percentage sales growth, Crodas balance sheet remains robust, We are passionate about sustainability it In 2018, Croda has continued to market.
As a result of improving the Strong sales growth and is the right thing to do but also an integral deliversustained sales and profit despite second half year uncertainty coreproduct portfolio, Performance providing flexibility for organic investment, robustmargin in Personal Care inNorth America from the US China acquisition and capital returns to part of how our sustainable ingredients growth.
Lookingahead, whilst global Technologies saw double digit addvalue to our customers products.
market conditions remain challenging, The Groups largest sector, Personal Care, tradedispute.
We continued to increase percentagegrowth in operating shareholders.
We have completed a period delivered a strong performance in 2018. collaboration with crop science customers, of higher capital expenditure, which saw Ourbio-surfactants plant will enable the wecontinue to invest for the future and are profit for the third year in succession.
launch of a new ECO range of products, confident that our strategy of Growing the Thesales growth seen in the second half of both globally and locally.
Our Seed the construction of our industry-leading 2017 continued throughout 2018, with sales Enhancement business benefited from bio-surfactants plant in North America.
allowing our customers to build sustainably Core and Stretching the Growth will deliver In Stretching the Growth, Performance focused consumer brands without further progress in 2019. up 6.8% and operating profit 4.9% higher.
recent European investment in innovation, Technologies is investing in higher Consequently, free cash flow improved Return on sales fell marginally to 32.9% with steady sales growth driven by byalmost 60% year-on-year, to 155.4m sacrificing performance.
valuetechnologies, improving knowledge 2017: 33.3%, reflecting a broader sales mix.
industry-leading positions in priming, intensity including sales, marketing and 2017: 98.5m.
We have also invested pelleting and film coating.
over200m in the last four years in bolt-on During 2018 we have mapped Crodas technical capabilities whilst reducing activities to the United Nations 17 In Growing the Core, Personal Care capital deployed in asset intensity.
and technology acquisitions and continue delivered healthy growth across all three In Stretching the Growth, we commenced to invest in product innovation through Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Newopportunities are being developed ofthe 2030 Agenda for Sustainable ofits businesses.
Our world-leading Beauty a 25m project in North America to double inrenewable energy markets and higher enhanced in-house R&D capabilities.
Steve Foots Actives business saw sales rise by high manufacturing capacity for the fast growing Development, identifying both how we can value materials.
This is being supported by Group Chief Executive meet our sustainability goals and emerging single digit percentage.
Beauty Effects high purity excipients business, as demand greater testing capability, generating better Leverage the ratio of net debt to EBITDA delivered solid growth, focused on the for complex drug delivery systems continues at the end of 2018 was prudent at 1.1 growth opportunities for our business.
The application data to support novel market SDGs are a commitment to address some creation of ingredients for instant impact to grow.
Alongside this platform, the niches.
As part of the Digital Centre of times 2017: 1.0x.
Along with improving and skin effects, particularly popular with acquisition of Biosector provides Croda free cash generation, this has allowed both of the more pressing challenges facing the Excellence, an e-commerce pilot is being world today.
the millennial generation of consumers.
In with access to an industry renowned developed to expand customer reach, Beauty Formulation, improved commercial portfolio of adjuvants, serving both withthe customer base being broadened focus, innovation and better multinational humanand veterinary vaccine markets.
beyond the sectors traditional European customer engagement saw continued Wealso expanded global R&D capabilities, heartland into North America and Asia.
Case study: Carbon neutral growth across our heritage ingredient including new investment in Incotec in Following acquisition in December 2017, It is vital that we continue to identify ways Reserve is protecting a large area of portfolio.
Croda ingredients have been China and North America.
The acquisition IonPhasE has been integrated into the to reduce our carbon emissions.
We are tropical rainforest, which was previously formulated into several major global of Plant Impact established our third Crop Smart Materials business, distributors proud that, through the offsetting of their lined up for conversion to palm oil multinational relaunches and we continue Care market, a biostimulants business with exited and sales transitioned to Crodas emissions, our Beauty Actives business, estates.
With our support, not only will to develop new customers, particularly good growth trends driven by the need to global team.
Sederma and Crodarom, became carbon this rainforest be preserved, important inthe exciting Indie space.
sustainably feed a rising global population neutral for their manufacturing processes local community employment from a fixed land area.
The ongoing Core Business growth across in 2018. opportunities will be funded as an In Stretching the Growth, the acquisition of integration of Plant Impact leverages allregions alternative to deforestation.
Wider Nautilus from our open innovation partner, Crodas global crop sales network and We saw good organic sales growth in By working with ClimateCare for the benefits also include clean water the University of Prince Edward Island, thefirst new product sales are expected ourCore Business across all geographic purchase of carbon credits, we are filtersand low fuel cooking stoves added a range of blue biotechnology later in 2019, supporting progress regions.
After a period of regional economic ableto support the Rimba Rya project forlocal families.
marine organisms to the existing synthetic towardsprofitability thereafter.
weakness, sales in Latin America continued inIndonesia.
The Rimba Rya Biodiversity and plant-based portfolio of Beauty Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
