Strategic Report Business Model Our sector sales 487.8m 324.5m 456.4m 118.2m Personal Life Performance Industrial How we create value Care Sciences Technologies Chemicals We create, make and sell innovative speciality chemical ingredients, generating long term value through collaborative relationships and our commitment to sustainable innovation.
Total sales 1,386.9m Our value chain A powerful business model E C M M S Consumer Customer Engage Create Make Sell Customer Consumer demand needs Working closely with our We create innovative and Our manufacturing sites We have a direct product benefit customers and supply sustainable ingredients all run flexible operations sellingmodel with sales, Influenced by Our customers Using our innovative and Through our customers chain, we identify unmet and technologies that to consistently high technical and warehousing globalmega trends, seekinnovative and sustainable ingredients, products, our ingredients consumer needs around meet consumer needs.
consumers dictate the sustainable ingredients our customers enhance improve consumers lives the world.
unmet needs across that address consumer their products to meet by addressing their unmet The Croda Difference The Croda Difference The Croda Difference ourfour market sectors.
needs in increasingly The Croda Difference Our local specialists We produce high value We sell thousands of sustainable ways.
Customer intimacy is workas one global team, ingredients on a customer ingredients to thousands central to everything we sharing knowledge demand driven basis.
of customers of all sizes.
Our local sales and togrow our extensive Weare constantly Through our global technical teams gain a innovation pipeline and developing new network, customer focus deep understanding of valuable protected production technologies and ability to manage our customers current intellectual property.
that improve flexibility complexity, we offer and future needs, which Through our Open andsecurity of supply.
ingredients that address we respond to through Innovation and Smart We make superior unmet consumer our agile global network, Partnering Programmes, ingredients while reducing demands for high whether they are a small we constantly pursue new our environmental burden.
performing, low niche company or a and novel technologies environmental largemultinational.
Our key assets Our stakeholders Culture Innovation Sustainability Partnerships The value we add We are united as a Innovation is the lifeblood Building on our bio-based Through our Open globalteam through our of our business.
Success raw material heritage, Innovation and Smart 93.7% 32.8% culture, striving to be a relies on our peoples weare committed to Partnering programmes Shareholders of our Rising Star products, increase in ordinary dividend fun, lively and exciting drive for continuous sustainability across every with universities and small Our people those expected to be a top over the past four years place to work, where improvement, especially aspect of our business.
and medium enterprises, 50seller in the next five years, Innovation partners everyone is treated fairly our technical and As a key differentiator, we we identify unique have a known sustainability Regulators & and equally.
Our values commercial experts as will continue to invest in opportunities that add benefit in use 50.0% tradeassociations and behaviours guide wefocus on increasing innovative product design value to our customers Customers ourprogress, and as we our sales of new and and operations, working products and satisfy of the suppliers we invited to constantly seek to evolve, protected products.
We with our supply chain to theunmet needs of connect with us through the Suppliers 28.2% we empower our people therefore strive to attract minimise the negative consumers.
We are EcoVadis supply chain risk Local communities by recognising their a diverse array of talent, impact we, and the focused on innovation, of our sales in 2018 were from assessment platform did Non-governmental commitment, creativity develop our people and ingredients we make, with teams across our new andprotected products soduring 2018 organisations and innovation, affording foster a can-do attitude.
mayhave on the business dedicated them autonomy to As we expand into faster planetand maximise tocreating new and Read more about our develop themselves growth markets, we are thepositive benefits we improved ingredients 82.7% 43.2% stakeholders on page 14-15 andour business.
increasing the number deliver to improve lives.
incollaboration with of our people received training of our employee volunteering ofour innovation centres ourcustomers.
during 2018 time was spend on science, in locations where our technology, engineering and people can get closer mathematics activities toour customers.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Strategic Report Our Stakeholders The importance of engaging with our stakeholders To read more about the engagement that our Board has with some of these stakeholders see pages 56-59.
Shareholders Our People Innovation Regulators & Customers Suppliers Local Non-Governmental As a FTSE 100 business, listed We rely on the knowhow, Partners TradeAssociations By working collaboratively Supply chain integrity is a Communities Organisations since 1964, we pride ourselves creativity and entrepreneurial withour customers, we critical part of our business as We focus on Open Innovation Operating in a regulated We have a responsibility to The consumer voice is on maintaining open dialogue spirit of all our people.
Our develop innovations to meet we rely on our suppliers to help and Smart Partnering, working industry, we embrace operate safely and effectively gettingmore powerful and with our shareholders.
ability to innovate relies on consumer needs and deliver meet our customers needs.
closely with our customers, complexity.
Our people have within the communities we NGOs are increasing pressure aculture of openness and thousands of ingredients directly Why we engage Why we engage academics, university start-ups the expertise and networks share and to give back to on business to take greater trustthat fosters collaboration.
We recognise that the way In the speciality chemicals and technology enterprises.
toforesee and respond to thesesocieties.
weoperate to deliver long term Why we engage Why we engage industry many supply chains opportunities and challenges.
Why we engage Why we engage Why we engage sustainable value is different to As an information and As well as being as close to are long and complex.
We We create new technologies Why we engage Strong local relationships are As a business to business our peers, so it is critical that knowledge rich business, ourcustomers as possible, must source from suppliers toadd value to our customers As part of our commitment essential to maintaining our company, it is typically our we communicate regularly with weensure that everyone weadd value by sharing who share our standards of products and satisfy changing totransparency and trust, social licence to operate.
Our customers who receive shareholders to ensure that our communicates effectively market insight to identify future ethics and transparency.
We wekeep informed of, lead education activities support NGOattention, but we have a strategy and market trends are through formal and informal opportunities, engage R&D and Ourwork to characterise recognise that a collaborative andsupport legislative and local schools, whilst enabling responsibility to support them.
Management provide sustainable solutions keyphysical supply chains approach to innovation can regulatory change.
The public our people to develop new Many NGOs work collaboratively regularly share important to improve performance.
By continues to give us a major How we engage often accelerate time to voice and policy makers are skills: helping us recruit new to meet shared goals, although newsto align our strategic becoming our customers opportunity to lead on Our Investor Relations team market, reduce costs and increasingly demanding, so talent in the future: and we are also proactive to direction and behaviours.
indispensable strategic traceability and sustainability.
regularly answers questions create product differentiation.
weanticipate and prepare ensuring that we have a understand areas of their partner, we help them satisfy and presents to shareholders.
How we engage How we engage forhow issues, such as positive societal impact.
How we engage their consumers needs.
We attend investor conferences Our informal networks Our strong partnerships with climatechange, will impact Our global R&D teams How we engage How we engage and roadshows across the aresupported by a global How we engage suppliers on a global, regional ourbusiness.
buildpartnerships to We focus on three key areas.
Engagement on the ingredients world and invite groups to visit emailnotification Croda Now, Each of our market sectors and local level enable us to combineinternal and external How we engage We invite local community we make and how we make our operations to showcase local newsletters, our global hasa dedicated research, sales deliver our extensive product expertise to focus on relentless Our people, particularly representatives to take part in them is increasingly important.
Through our publication Croda Way, and marketing team working portfolio.
We also work with innovation.
We encourage product and quality specialists, our site committees and our Areas of focus include the website, press activities and localcascade meetings, closely with our customers our supply chain through partners to approach us with are members of national local teams maintain open environmental and social annual reports, we keep our workscouncils, consultation R&D, purchasing, regulatory initiatives such as CDP their innovations at external andinternational industry dialogue with government impact of our ingredients shareholders up to date.
committees, webinars and and sustainability departments.
formerly Carbon Disclosure events and by holding associations, where our voice officials and emergency andoperations, our approach culture surveys.
In addition to face-to-face Project, Sedex and EcoVadis, Impact of engagement seminars to present is highly respected.
Our education to bribery, modern slavery, meetings, we attend industry and oversee compliance We have a loyal shareholder Impact of engagement ourcapabilities and attendmeetings with local programmes seek to raise equal pay and the living wage.
exhibitions, speak at many through our Group base in the UK and North Employee engagement must marketopportunities.
government officials and theprofile of science, Our activities include meetings conferences and invite EthicsCommittee.
America and are seeing be two-way.
Our global culture emergency services to technology, engineering with NGOs and working Impact of engagement customers to our own growthin Europe and Asia.
survey in 2017 had a pleasing Impact of engagement supportcommunity needs.
andmathematics STEM, withour customers, trade New partnerships have helped seminarsand workshops.
With sustainability central 80% response rate, and in Through our work with CDP we andthrough our 1% Club associations and regulators.
in supporting six successive Impact of engagement toour strategy, we are also 2018 we held Listening Impact of engagement encourage suppliers to look at wevolunteer time to support years of new and protected We have been involved in Impact of engagement seeing growth in investment Groupsacross all levels of our Our year on year sales growth, their sustainability credentials, local community needs.
In 2018, establishing international Since 2009 we have been from ESGfunds.
organisation to gain a deeper particularly the increase in with the aim of reducing CO 2 this included: acquiring marine bestpractice and producing Impact of engagement avoice in driving industry understanding of our peoples sales of new and protected emissions in our supply chain.
biotechnology company guidelines and standards to Many of our operations have transformation to certified feelings towards our business.
products, is testament to how Using the scorecard systems 38 Nautilus following an open enhance consumer safety and regular two-way conversations sustainable palm oil CSPO.
We This has informed detailed our people work closely with of Sedex and EcoVadis to conferences and roadshows innovation partnership: product quality.
Working with with community representatives have also recently supported action plans for all operations.
Ultimately, identify potential risks, we have were attended in 2018 and investing in the university suppliers and customers, we to discuss our activities and the development of guidelines success is seen where, meaningful conversations to wepresented to spin-out Cutitronics: have led in the certificationof thelocal topics that impact for compliance with the UNs together, we improve the empower ethical supply chains 60 anddeveloping a sustainable palm oil derivatives.
Our STEM work is Nagoya Protocol and in 2017 livesof consumers through the and secure product supply.
Listening Groups were held strategicpartnership helping to improve the learning we became a signatory of the 139 wide range of environmental in2018 and  and career prospects of local UK Living Wage.
220 shareholders face to face and social benefits our 2,500 companySiSaf.
people, at the same time as active memberships of industry ingredients deliver in use.
meetings with our raw material enhancing our reputation and associations, so in 2018 we 30 87.6% suppliers in 2018, in helping to develop our people.
85 attended over CSPO presentations and of our people have, so far, 23,831 ongoing projects in 2018 interviews were given by received an annual appraisal face-to-face meetings with andover 5,117 usin2018, and our 19 ourcustomers in 2018 and 660 hours of 1% Club time countries meetings across the world weattended over recorded in 2018, with 450 14 Open Innovation partnerships manufacturing sites who 100 established globally 43.2% handle 99% of our palm industry events of this used for STEM activities derivatives are RSPO certified Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15
