Strategic Report Our Strategy Growing the Core and Stretching the Growth We deliver shareholder value by being a leading speciality ingredient company, driving sustainable innovation, superior performance and creating value for our customers and consumers.
Strategic objective Description We achieve this through What we have done in 2018 Our priorities in 2019 KPIs Risks Through our powerful business model we Our unrivalled local direct Delivered sales and profit growth in all Deliver top line growth ahead of Return on Revenue Deliver connect to fast growing markets to grow sellingcapability threecore sectors in constant currency the markets in which we operate sales% p24 generation consistent top profit ahead of sales, ahead of volume.
inestablished A balanced global footprint Increased earnings per share Deliver bottom line growth Core Business and emerging and bottom line growth sales growth % Accelerating sales in our core markets Increased free cash flow Deliver strong free cash flow markets p40 p24 A disciplined approach to Returned capital to shareholders.
Maintain our disciplined Talent capitalallocation approachto capital allocation.
development Investing in high return opportunities.
and retention p41 Innovation is the lifeblood of our business, Investing in our own R&D Increased the number of innovation centres Increase collaboration with NPP sales % Product and Increase the proportion playing a key role in delivering sales and customers across core sectors p24 technology Expanding the number of regional Completed four technology investments: of protected innovation profit growth.
Through our technical and innovation p40 innovation centres Nautilus, Plant Impact, SiSaf and Cutitronics Commercialise new technologies Relative NPP commercial expertise, our focus is to sales growth Protect new Working closer with customers to Acquired Biosector, a specialist supplier of Globalise open innovation increase the sales of new and protected p24 intellectual betterunderstand their specific needs human and veterinary vaccine adjuvants Acquire new technology-led products NPP.
property p40 Identifying disruptive technologies Expanded our Open Innovation network of companies with unique partners to more than 450 and continued intellectualproperty Digital Developing our Open Innovation and toexpand our Smart Partnering Programme technology Smart Partnering Programmes with Expand our digital capabilities.
innovation p40 universities and technology enterprises.
Created a global technology scouting group Established a Digital Centre of Excellence.
Talent development and retention p41 Sustainability connects all aspects of our Creating ingredients that provide Acquired Nautilus, a sustainable marine Develop KPIs and targets for Non-fossil fuel Product liability Accelerate our business.
Building on our bio-based raw abenefit in use with reduced biotechnology company 2030, aligned with the SDGs energy % p25 claims p41 customers transition to material heritage, we are evolving our environmental impact Acquired Plant Impact, a biostimulants Demonstrate how our Total Major safety or products, technologies and supply chain sustainable ingredients Better understanding the sustainable business that improves crop yield and quality productssave more Recordable environmental to meet customer and consumer needs.
ingredient needs of our customers greenhousegas emissions Injury Rate p25 incident p41 Acquired Biosector, a leading adjuvant Acquiring technology-led companies specialist for vaccines Identify low carbon technologies Security of raw with sustainable technologies Worked on open innovation projects Deliver an improvement in work material supply Aligning our business with the United toidentify novel, low energy, place safety p41 Nations Sustainable Development  Demonstrate the net benefit of Chemical Goals SDGs wherever possible.
Determined the mechanism for Carbon ouruse of land.
regulatory reduction targets, 50% by 2030 and 80% by compliance 2050, from its 2006 level.
p42 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Strategic Report Our Strategy continued How we invested in 2018 Good capital discipline Stretching the Growth focuses on accelerating sales Delivering a strong cash flow is core to our strategy: it in our core sectors: creating more technology, new enables us to invest in R&D, faster growth technologies and protected products and intellectual property: that are both organic and acquired, expand production andtaking a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
capacity and pay increased dividends.
In line with our disciplined capital allocation policy, we invest in high capital return opportunities to deliver superior shareholder value.
We seek to deliver high quality returns, measured through a superior Return on Invested Capital ROIC, earnings growth and strong cash Inorder to achieve this, we are investing in six key areas.
The Groups capital allocation policy is to: Reinvest for Provide regular Acquire Maintain Sustainability Greater R&D Premiumniches growth by: returns to promising appropriate leadership We have a relentless focus on innovation.
Many of our markets are experiencing In constant currency, new and protected aflight to premium.
We continue to shareholders by: technologiesto: balance sheet We are passionate about sustainability, product NPP sales have grown by 85% experience high levels of demand for our because it is the right thing to do and and return since 2012, from 20.5% of total sales to Sederma anti-ageing skin actives, which anintegral part of how our sustainable excess 28.2% today.
Personal Care has the richest iswhy we have recently doubled R&D and ingredients add value to our customers innovation, with NPP sales accounting for enhanced production capacity.
Our bio-surfactants plant will see 43% of total sector sales.
increased capacity in our solar protection the launch of our ECO range of sustainably business to support the growth of our focused ingredients.
Life Sciences has a healthy innovation Solaveil range of ingredients.
pipeline and is expected to deliver The publication of the United Nations fastgrowth in NPP sales.
Performance We are expanding manufacture of our Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Technologies has increased its proportion highpurity excipients as demand continues Investing in capital Paying a regular dividend Supplement organic Meet future investment and isproviding growth opportunities for our of NPP sales to 18% as the sector to grow rapidly.
In Brazil, we invested in projectsto grow sales, representing 40% to 50% growthin existing and trading requirements: with business.
The SDGs are a commitment transitions to a higher technology business.
capacity for our Crop Care adjuvants, typically each year spending ofadjusted earnings over adjacent markets A target leverage of 1.0 to totackling some of the more pressing providing us with new exciting opportunities.
Enhance our strong 1.5x excluding deficits on challenges facing the world today and, in We continue to invest in our global R&D In the UK, we are expanding our polymer Increasing product innovation product pipeline.
2018, our Executive Committee worked capabilities with new facilities in North additive manufacturing capacity.
innovation In 2018 the Board has with Cambridge Institute for Sustainability America, China and Singapore.
We have Expanding in attractive In 2018 we: In 2018: proposed: Leadership to develop our sustainability also enhanced our R&D capabilities at geographic markets.
strategy in alignment with the SDGs.
An increase of 7.4% in the Acquired Nautilus, a marine After the acquisition of Sederma and expanded our crop biotechnology company Biosector, leverage increased full year dividend to 87.0p carefacility in Brazil.
In 2018 we have invested 2017: 81.0p Acquired Plant Impact, a to 1.1x.
In light of our strong 2x depreciation in: biostimulants business performance and improving A special dividend of Funding asset replacement 115.0pper share.
Acquired Biosector, cash generation, the Board is aleading adjuvant proposing a return of 150m New investment in keytechnologies specialistfor human excess capital to shareholders InnovationPartnering Disruptive  andveterinary vaccines by way of a special dividend.
Completing the Our Open Innovation and Smart Partnering led acquisitions Digitalisation is an emerging constructionof our Invested in SiSaf, a The effect of this return would Programmes continue to evolve.
We now differentiatorfor our business, creating noveldrug delivery have been to increase the 2018 pioneering bio-surfactants We continue to invest in disruptive have more than 450 partners, comprising many opportunities.
We have invested plant in North America.
technology company year-end leverage towards the technology as part of our strategy to over 100 completed and 85 ongoing inglobal digital resource and established Increased our investment in upperend of the Boards Stretch the Growth.
The integration of projects with academics, universities, aDigital Centre of Excellence to take Cutitronics, the multi-award targetrange.
aninnovative technology provider of static start-ups and technology enterprises.
advantage of this fast-evolving winning digital device electricity dissipation for electronic and In2018 we acquired Nautilus, from digitalworld.
automotive applications, IonPhasE, is oneof our smart partners.
This acquisition has We focus our efforts on better created openings in new fast growing, Along with our smart partner Glassflake, connectingwith our customers.
We ROIC Acquisitions Ordinary Leverage Net capital niche end markets.
we developed and launched a range created entrepreneurial cells in Digital dividend expenditure ofMoonshine ingredients in 2018, Marketing and Data Analytics that will drive In Health Care, we acquired Biosector, anewoffering in colour cosmetics.
an improved customer experience through avaccine adjuvant specialist, seen Wealsocompleted an investment our digital channels.
In Canada, we opened asanatural extension of our existing and a commercial arrangement the Nautilus Biosciences Croda Centre of pharmaceutical excipients portfolio.
with SiSaf, apioneering UK based Innovation for Marine Biotechnology.
