Strategic Report Finance Review continued 3.
Acquire disruptive technologies product onto the continent and vicefinancial outcomes and do not believe Constant currency results: these reflect adjusted presentation is adopted on a Brexit update wehave identified a number of exciting versa is not at risk.
These amendments these would alter our view of viability current year performance for existing consistent basis for each half year and With 96% of sales and 80% of production technologies to supplement organic have included reviewing which ports are oftheGroup.
business translated at the prior years full year results: outside the UK, the overall impact of the growth in existing and adjacent markets.
best placed to protect service levels, as average exchange rates and include UK leaving the European Union EU is Return on sales: this is adjusted Some of these will be acquired, either as well as ensuring that we have full EU theimpact of acquisitions.
For constant Retirement benefits expected to be limited for Croda.
This operating profit divided by sales, nascent opportunities for future scale-up recognition for imports and exports: currency profit, translation is performed The post-tax deficit on retirement includes potential impacts from WTO atreported currency: or as larger complementary acquisitions.
using the entity reporting currency.
tariffs, restrictions on labour mobility and benefitplans, measured on an accounting Maintaining effective customer service Return on Invested Capital ROIC : this is During 2018, we completed the Forconstant currency sales, local valuation basis under IAS19, decreased to any impact on the UK economy.
We are working to complementary acquisition of Biosector, currency sales are translated into the adjusted operating profit after tax divided has30 manufacturing sites, of which four 12.4m 2017: 21.1m, largely reflecting mitigate supply issues if there are delays by the average invested capital for the technology acquisitions of Nautilus and most relevant functional currency of the net actuarial gains.
Cash funding of the are located in the UK, and over 4,500 at borders.
We have secured additional Plant Impact, invested in a minority destination country of sale for example, year for the Group.
Invested capital employees, with 1,000 based in the UK.
various plans within the Group is driven by warehousing capacity and are building represents the net assets of the Group, interest in novel drug technology sales in Latin America are primarily made the schemes ongoing actuarial valuation Protecting our ability to manufacture finished goods inventory in our company SiSaf and increased our in US dollars, which is therefore used adjusted for earlier goodwill written off product in the UK and to ship to reviews.
No deficit funding payments distribution network in continental toreserves, net debt, retirement benefit associate investment in Cutitronics: and asthe functional currency.
Sales in arecurrently required to the Groups customers, particularly in the EU, Europe.
To ensure continued effective functional currency are then translated liabilities, provisions, deferred taxes and havebeen important elements of largestpension scheme, the UK operation of our UK manufacturing sites, acquisitions as appropriate.
Maintain an appropriate balance into Sterling using the prior years CrodaPension Scheme.
we have also developed a plan to protect sheetand return excess capital we average rates for the corresponding made at year end without a profit critical raw materials: and contribution in the period are excluded: maintain an appropriate balance sheet period.
Constant currency results An orderly transition of the UK out of Future trading updates tomeet future investment and trading Ensuring compliance with regulatory arereconciled to reported results theEU is expected to be manageable for The Board has decided to cease Net debt: comprises cash and cash frameworks, most notably the EUs requirements.
We target leverage of in the Finance Review: Croda.
However, given uncertainty over the equivalents including bank overdrafts, issuingquarterly trading updates from 1.0to 1.5x excluding retirement benefit REACh programme.
UK-held REACh method and timing of the UKs exit from 2019 onwards, given developing market Adjusted results: these are stated current and non-current borrowings registrations may no longer be valid for schemes, although we are prepared to the EU, we have progressed contingency andobligations under finance leases: practice.
Routine updates will occur as part beforeexceptional items including move above this range if circumstances sale of products in the EU, although plans for a hard Brexit.
The objective has of the half year and full year results, discontinued business costs, acquisition theUK government has confirmed Leverage: this is the ratio of net warrant.
We consider returning excess been to ensure that we can offer continuity normally in July and February each year.
costs and amortisation of intangible debttoEarnings Before Interest, Tax, capital to shareholders when leverage thatEU-held REACh registrations will of service and supply to our customers, assets arising on acquisition and tax continue to be valid in the short term Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA.
falls below our target range and wherever they are, and regardless of the Alternative performance thereon.
The Board believes that the EBITDA is adjusted operating profit plus sufficientcapital is available to meet our forproducts coming to the UK.
Following our risk assessment, adjusted presentation and the columnar measures ismitigated through greater inventory depreciation and amortisation: investment opportunities.
With leverage we have focused on those areas that could format adopted for the Group income We use a number of alternative at the end of 2018 close to 1x and our ofUK manufactured goods on the have the most impact on our ability to Free cash flow: comprises EBITDA statement assists shareholders by performance measures to assist in continent and through re-registration confidence in future cash generation, the service customers, in the event that the lessmovements in working capital, net providing a meaningful basis upon presenting information in this statement in Board is proposing to return 115p per ofUK products sold in the EU.
UKwas to leave the EU abruptly, without capital expenditure, non-cash pension whichto analyse underlying business an easily analysable and comprehensible share 150m to shareholders by way of atransition period: expense, and interest and tax payments.
performance and make year-on-year form.
We use such measures consistently a special dividend with associated share In addition, with the vast majority of the comparisons.
The same measures at the half year and full year and reconcile Groups sales outside the UK, reported consolidation.
The effect of this return of Having a Brexit-ready trading model.
We areused by management for planning, them as appropriate.
The measures used capital, had it been made in 2018, would profits are impacted by movements in have made minor changes to our trading budgeting and reporting purposes and inthis statement include: Sterling, with reported profit benefiting have been to increase the 2018 year end model within Europe to ensure that our for the internal assessment of operating leverage towards the upper end of the from any weakening in Sterling.
Overall, ability to move UK manufactured performance across the Group.
The Jez Maiden wehave stress tested a range of potential Boards target range.
Group Finance Director Financial data Figure 5 Figure 6 Figure 7 Figure 8 Summary income statement Income statement Cash flow Return on invested capital ROIC 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Sales 1,386.9 1,373.1 Adjusted profit before tax 331.5 320.3 Adjusted operating profit 342.5 332.2 Adjusted operating profit 342.5 332.2 Operating costs 1,044.4 1,040.9 Exceptional items, acquisition Depreciation and amortisation 50.1 49.6 Adjusted tax at effective rate 84.3 89.0 costs & intangibles 13.7 6.2 Adjusted operating profit 342.5 332.2 EBITDA 392.6 381.8 Adjusted operating profit net of tax 258.2 243.2 Profit before tax IFRS 317.8 314.1 Net interest charge 11.0 11.9 Working capital 69.3 33.3 Net assets 998.0 829.9 Tax 79.5 77.4 Adjusted profit before tax 331.5 320.3 Net capital expenditure 103.1 157.2 Adjustments for: Profit after tax IFRS 238.3 236.7 Non-cash pension expense 3.8 3.4 Net debt 425.5 381.5 Interest & tax 68.6 96.2 Net retirement benefit liability 18.5 30.5 Free cash flow 155.4 98.5 Net deferred tax liability 68.5 30.3 Dividends 110.5 100.0 Provisions 11.1 12.6 Acquisitions 82.5 30.4 Goodwill previously written off to reserves 50.2 50.2 Other cash movements 4.4 5.6 Acquisitions 71.1 Net cash flow 33.2 26.3 Invested capital 1,500.7 1,335.0 Average invested capital 1,417.9 1,266.0 Return on invested capital % 18.2% 19.2% The Group acquired Biosector on 28 December 2018.
Given the proximity of the acquisition to the balance sheet date, the Groups measure of invested capital has been adjusted to exclude this.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic Report Risk Management Protecting value Risk Heat Map unmitigated The objective of our risk management Each of our 50 risks are owned by an Management Committee, monitors Our key risks programme, summarised in our Risk Executive member, and are categorised into andreviews risks using a bottom up Our principal risks are reported gross before mitigating controls Our Risk Heat Map identifies the key risks Framework, is to support the Business six main areas.
The Risk Framework is used andtopdown approach.
Our dashboard that we consider may threaten the delivery Strategic risk External environment risk inmeeting its strategic and operational to drive an integrated, three lines of defence toolenables comparison across regions, of our long term strategic goals.
The Risk objectives and to deliver on its commitments.
management approach through the culture operations and sectors and by risk category.
1 Revenue generation in established 9 Chemical regulatory compliance Framework includes longer lists of risks that of the organisation, across sectors, The third line of defence is assurance.
and emerging markets 10 Ethics and compliance are reviewed throughout the year, together operations, regions and functions.
Thisis provided over the mitigating controls How we manage risk 2 Product and technology innovation with consideration of emerging risks.
The identified in the framework via internal Our risk management activities are part of a key risks are explained in further detail in 3 Protect new intellectual property Business systems risk Our first line of defence, our employees, control audits and deep dive risk assurance strong framework, owned and overseen by thetable on pages 40 to 42, together with 4 Digital technology innovation 11 Security of business information have a responsibility to manage day to audits, the results of which are monitored by the Board, which has overall responsibility their link to business strategy and business and networks dayrisk in their own areas, and it is the three Executive Committees and reviewed for ensuring that our risks are aligned with model.
The Board has carried out a robust People and culture risk roleof local management and ultimately the by the Audit Committee and the Board.
our goals and strategic objectives p60.
assessment of these key risks and has 5 Talent development and retention Executive to ensure that risks are managed, Financial risk TheAudit Committee assists the Board taken them into consideration when and risk registers are maintained, reviewed 12 Ineffective management inmonitoring the effectiveness of the assessing the long term viability of and actioned according to the framework.
ofpensionfund riskmanagement and internal control theCompany on page 43.
Process risk The second line of defence, the Risk systems p62.
6 Product liability claims Changes to our gross risk 7 Major safety or environmental incident environment in 2018 8 Security of raw material supply Risk Framework: what we monitor A number of our key risks were elevated as a result of increased political and economic Our risk landscape Six categories with over 50 risks What we assess uncertainty, especially around the US 1 2 7 China trade relationship p18, and the 11 Current risks Risk ownership: each risk has focus on digital strategy opportunities Strategic 10 anamed owner Risks that could affect alsoidentified on page 18.
6 ourbusiness, customers, Likelihood and impact: globally People and culture supplychain, employees applied 6x6 scoring scale With the completion of the biggest andcommunities and stop us Gross risk before mitigating controls 9 Process capitalinvestment in Crodas history, the achieving our strategic goals 3 Mitigating controls subject to bio-surfactants plant in North America 8 Emerging risks internalaudit review and monitoring 5 External environment p29, the risk of major capital project 4 Net risk after mitigating controls Risks with a future impact, failure is reduced and has been removed identified through our rigorous areapplied Business systems and security from ourkey risks.
The short term risk of internal risk assessment process, Actions for further mitigation major safety and environmental incident 12 from external or internal threats Financial ifrequired has been increased as that site moves and opportunities intobusiness as usual operation.
Medium Impact High Executive Risk Register Our bottom up register Our Executive Committee reviews a combined summary of all Identify, own and manage risks involved in day-to-day operations Gross risk increase Gross risk no change Gross risk decrease individual bottom up registers to identify emerging risks that throughover 25 risk registers globally, owned by market sectors, may need to be added to the top-down key risk register.
regions, manufacturing sites and functions.
Risk management in action: Brexit risk How we monitor Our cross functional Brexit project team reported results, cash and financing, recognising the existing trading rules Board Audit Committee Risk Management Group SHEQ Group Ethics was formed in April 2016 to monitor and customer service and supply chain, increased, the Risk Management Responsible for the Risk Reviews the effectiveness Committee Steering Committee review the implications of the result of the andthe regulatory framework.
Committee approved the acceleration Framework and definition of the Group risk Meets quarterly to monitor Committee Meets quarterly to UK referendum to leave the EU Brexit ofthe project teams contingency plans, of risk appetite.
and review risks other reviewethics and Meets quarterly to on our strategy, business model and The project team conducted scenario with the primary objective of ensuring thanSHEQ and ethics.
reviewSafety, Health, Reviews key risks with an Reviews assurance operations both within Europe and globally.
analysis to assess the impact of individual thecontinuity of the European business Environmental and opportunity for in-depth overcontrols by directing Identifies and considers Monitors against risks and combinations of risks.
The across the whole business model.
discussion of specific internal audit to undertake emerging risks.
The team developed a Brexit risk register register was reviewed by the Board Customer communication packs keyrisks and mitigating assurance reviews for Monitors against stretching Receives an in-depth using the Risk Framework thatconsidered andthe Risk Management Committee, weredeveloped for the sales teams controls twice a year p60.
selected key risks and targets and agreed KPIs.
presentation of specific reviews the results p62.
not only the immediate potential for who received quarterly updates on summarising our preparations and Verifies the viability key risks and mitigating Considers the results of disruption between Europe and the theprogress of review, design and updates continue to be posted on statement.
controls from the assurance audits over UKacross all our generic risk categories.
Italso considered the global implications ateach meeting.
on the movement of people and products, As the probability of a hard Brexit A summary of the current status is Considers the results our trading model, innovation partnerships, withouta transition agreement included in the Finance Review on p36.
Executive Committee p68 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Medium Likelihood High Strategic Report Risk Management continued Link to our Potential impact on Link to strategy p20 Risk movement business model p12 Key risk our business How we respond What we have done in 2018 E Deliver consistent top and bottom line growth Risk increase Engage People and culture risks Increase the proportion of protected innovation No change C Create The vision and experience of Reward programmes, a strong The first phase of our new global 5.
Talent ourknowledgeable and specialist development culture and excellent HRInformation System was rolled development M Accelerate our customers transition to Risk decrease Make employees are critical to maintaining learning opportunities support the out, implementing a single globally sustainable ingredients and retention our success.
Inability to recruit and retention and career development adopted appraisal and learning S Included in viability statement Sell Tom Brophy retain appropriately skilled employees ofthe high-quality teams we need.
The talent and development Executive owner from diverse backgrounds could Global graduate and management process was reviewed and updated.
adversely impact our ability to deliver development programmes include We continued to implement actions our current and future business stretching and high profile assignments identified in our global employee Potential impact on requirements and strategic priorities.
and provide a pipeline of internal talent.
culture survey including establishing aDiversity and Inclusion Steering Key risk our business How we respond What we have done in 2018 If these individuals were to leave, it The annual global talent review Committee p11 and a global network would take time to replace them if process supports review of resources Strategic risk of ambassadors to promote best nosuccession plans were in place.
and succession plans for critical practice in this area.
roles, with actions monitored by the Failure to keep pace with our Through our global sector sales, Delivered a year of significant progress 1.
Revenue E C M S Executive Committee and the Board.
customers as they follow consumers marketing and technology teams, through our organic growth strategy, generation in into emerging markets, and increasing weidentify consumer trends and Growing the Core p16, where all established and competition from mainstream and respond swiftly to satisfy customer core sectors and major regions emerging markets other chemical companies looking needs through key technologies.
Process risk Sector Presidents tomove into our established markets, Ourdirect selling model enables The increased risk reflects current We sell into a number of highly Our sites and products are certified to All manufacturing sites continued to Executive owner will adversely impact delivery of our us to get closer to our customers.
Product political and economic uncertainty, regulated markets.
Non-compliance demanding external quality standards maintain the required level of Good strategic objective to deliver consistent liability claims particularly around trade between both with our customers stringent including ISO 9001, GMP and Manufacturing Practice throughout top and bottom line growth.
theUS and China p18 and to our Tom Brophy quality requirements and local Excipact which are highly valued by 2018, and larger sales offices were Brexit contingency planning.
Executive owner regulation could expose us to our customers.
Compliance with these awarded ISO 9001 certification.
E C S liabilityand reputational damage, is delivered by our global network of Aglobal focus team reviewed our especially in light of our commitment quality professionals and assurance customer delivery against Right to sustainability.
over controls provided though audits FirstTime and actions continue delivered both internally by our tobeimplemented to drive Innovation plays a critical role across Our outstanding technical research In Stretching the Growth p17 we 2.
Product and specialist audit team and externally.
our operations: it differentiates us from and development R&D teams are acquired Biosector and purchased technology We work proactively with relevant the competition, protects sales and fullyintegrated into our global sector twodisruptive technology companies, innovation trade associations to shape improves our margins.
Failure to drive leadership teams to focus innovation Nautilus and Plant Impact p27, M S future regulation.
Nick Challoner New and Protected Products NPP on customer requirements.
Guided introducing new markets to our Executive owner through innovation will impact byour key technology platforms, business.
We continued to invest ongrowth.
weinvest in: R&D, Open Innovation inour product innovation pipeline, We rely on the continued sustainable Monitored by our Group SHEQ High hazard chemical processes and Smart Partnership programmes opening two new tribology laboratories.
Major safety operation of our manufacturing sites Steering Committee p68, our global identified at every manufacturing with universities, specialist research or environmental around the world.
network of safety specialists located at siteare documented to demonstrate laboratories and SMEs, and disruptive incident each site enforce compliance with the that risks are reduced to As Low technology acquisitions.
We seek out A major event causing loss of Stuart Arnott policies and procedures defined in the AsReasonably Practicable.
In 2018, and invest in premium niches which production, or violating safety, health Executive owner Group SHE manual.
Assurance over the planned assessment of all the we identify in partnership with E C or environmental regulations, could mitigating controls is provided by the PRRdocuments against an internal ourcustomers.
limit our operations and expose the dedicated Group SHE internal audit qualitystandard was completed Group to liability, cost and reputational team, whilst external audits assess ontime p33.
damage, especially in light of our compliance with OHSAS 18001 Failure to protect our intellectual We have a specialist IP team Increased the proportion of our 3.
Protect new commitment to sustainability and This risk increased in 2018 as we andISO 14001 certifications.
property IP in both existing and whoparticipate in the technical portfolio that is protected by patents, customer service.
completed the construction of our intellectual new markets could undermine andbusiness planning and strategy including products developed through We have business continuity plans in bio-surfactants plant in North America property ourcompetitive advantage.
meetings to identify ways to protect collaborative and joint projects and place for each site and a Group Crisis which moved into production.
In Nick Challoner any new products and technologies.
those acquired through technology Management Plan that is tested at November 2018 a small leak occurred Executive owner They defend our IP and challenge acquisitions such as IonPhasE and least annually.
at the plant p17, which will remain M thirdparty IP where appropriate.
E C An interruption in the supply of key Professional purchasing teams Performed a full risk review of high 8.
Security of raw raw materials would significantly affect basedin our regions monitor supply contribution suppliers in Europe for material supply our operations and financial position.
toidentify and manage potential future effectiveness of mitigating controls Stuart Arnott Such a disruption could arise from shortages.
We look to develop good and contingency strategies in the Disruptive digital technology has We are investing in dedicated global Following the appointment of our Executive owner 4.
Digital market shortages or from restrictive relationships with our suppliers and to event of a hard Brexit p36.
The anincreasing impact, changing both resource to take advantage of the fast ChiefDigital Officer in 2017, we legislation, for example relating to agree long term contracts.
To protect rawmaterial supplier risk assessment technology ourcustomer base and the way our evolving digital world and deliver an invested in building a dedicated global thetransport of hazardous goods.
supply, we aim to source from multiple process was subject to internal audit innovation customers want to interact with us.
integrated market facing environment Digital Centre of Excellence p18 of suppliers.
Where this is not possible, review p62.
M Steve Foots Our current and future customers that encompasses everything from cross functional specialists from IT, we build up our own inventories.
Executive owner willincreasingly select and research product development to artificial marketing, R&D and operations who products through digital channels intelligence enabled manufacture will together evolve and deliver our withan expectation of high levels tocustomer service.
digital strategy to drive greater use ofcustomer service.
ofdigital selling and marketing E S acrossour business.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Long term viability statement Assessment of viability Potential impact on Viability has been assessed by considering the top-down headroom available in terms of Assessment of prospects Key risk our business How we respond What we have done in 2018 the overall funding capacity to withstand events, together with the bottom-up headroom In assessing the prospects of the Company External environment risk assessing the potential financial impact of events reflecting the Companys principal risks, and determining the appropriate viability both individually and in combination.
As a global chemical manufacturer, we Global regulatory expertise is provided The PSRA team completed the period, the Board has taken account of: 9.
Chemical operate in highly regulated markets, by our in-house team of specialists finalproduct registration under regulatory Top-down headroom which are subject to regular change.
PSRA, who have in-depth knowledge thephase-in provisions of REACh.
The financial and strategic planning compliance Violation, incomplete knowledge or of the regional and market regulatory This ten year project involved the cycle, which covers a three year period.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA at the end of 2018 of 1.1x remains Bank leverage Stuart Arnott change of the appropriate regulations frameworks within which we operate.
generation and collection of substantially below the maximum covenant level under the Groups The strategic planning process is led Executive owner could limit the markets into which we They work proactively to influence productdata and submission covenant lending facilities of 3x, providing significant headroom.
EBITDA would bythe Group Chief Executive and can sell or expose the Business to regulation and they are an integral ofcomprehensive dossiers to the need to fall by more than 65% before triggering an event of default.
partof our new product European Chemical Agency for 194 fullyreviewed by the Board: Actioncould also be taken to conserve cash.
In addition we submitted The investment planning cycle, which 129 registrations on behalf of The current level of committed debt facilities of 804m would support a Debt headroom We use the SAP EHS module to customers.
This work forms a solid covers three years.
The Executive gross leverage of circa 2x and significant additional credit is likely to be ensure that regulatory changes C M S foundation for any changes which Committee considers, and the Board available to the Group up to circa 3x leverage.
Current committed debt areapplied to existing products.
facilities largely mature in the third year of the viability period and, in reviews, likely customer demand and normal lending market circumstances, we would expect to have ample manufacturing capacity for each of its access to renew facilities as these mature.
The three year period We are subject to UK legislation, Our Group Ethics Committee p68 The roll out of our compliance 10.
Ethics and reflects the typical maximum lead time Bottom-up scenarios including the Bribery Act, which is meets quarterly to promote the reinforcement programme continued compliance involved in developing new capacity: far-reaching in terms of global scope.
importance of ethics and compliance globally, and its implementation was Tom Brophy Each of the key risks identified on pages 40 to 42 has been assessed for its potential across our business and those third audited as it moves to business as The business model p12 and the Executive owner Our increased presence in emerging financial impact as part of the viability assessment.
Of these, the most severe but parties we choose to work with.
We proactively assessed the economies and the introduction of Companys diversified portfolio of Compliance training and education compliance risk associated with supply plausiblescenarios or combinations thereof were identified as follows: regulations such as the Modern products, operations and customers, programmes are rolled out globally, chain partners, meeting many suppliers, Slavery Act give rise to an which reduce exposure to specific with results monitored by the agents and distributors to emphasise elevatedrisk to our business.
Scenario modelled Link to key risks Committee and followed up our expectations of their behaviour when geographies and markets, as well as withrefresher training.
acting on our behalf, and expanded large customer product combinations: Uninsured catastrophic loss of a manufacturing site the 7.
Major safety or oursupplier engagement programme, The strong innovation pipeline p17, partnering with EcoVadis.
We expanded impact of losing the contribution from the single largest environmental incident p41 our whistleblowing hotline to external which supports the Companys business site was considered assuming no insurance cover.
E C M S third parties for increased transparency.
through development of new sales However, for most loss events, we carry insurance cover.
growth opportunities, protects sales Significant compliance breach the financial impact 10.
Ethics and compliance andmargins, differentiates the Company ofregulatory fines was considered along with the p42 Business systems and security risk from competitors and provides barriers associated reputational damage.
to entry: and We rely heavily on the availability of IT Our information security specialists The Data Privacy steering group 11.
Security Disruptive technology the impact of substitute chemical 2.
Product and technology networks and systems: an extended monitor our IT services and network, monitored the delivery of personal of business The Companys strong cash generation or process technologies affecting current sales as innovation p40 interruption of these services may and oversee computer and mobile data risk assessments and process and its ability to renew and raise debt information result in an inability to meet customer device protection, in line with our flows to support readiness for GDPR modelled, together with the impact of new digital facilities in most market conditions p35.
Society and business established policies and processes.
Similar processes and technology affecting our historical routes to market.
Digital technology are subject to more numerous and Regular penetration testing is controls will be rolled out beyond the Jez Maiden innovation p40 increasingly sophisticated threats to undertaken and we run our key EU during 2019.
Strong conditional Executive owner A critically important driver of the security, including hackers, viruses applications in distributed computing access controls to cloud services were Adverse Brexit impact.
Revenue generation Companys business model is its and ransomware attacks that could environments with regular failover implemented and regular phishing Brexit risk management innovation pipeline.
The Board reviews compromise access.
We have externally audited andsecurity awareness training was inaction p39 thisover a period longer than three years, regulatory responsibilities relating to ISO 27001 certification for key undertaken with outcomes reported in line with longer development cycles Loss of IT systems particularly SAP Enterprise Resource 11.
Security of business data protection are becoming more systems and locations, whilst and action completion monitored.
However, the Board stringent, including the implementation internaland external auditors The2019 cyber improvement plan Planning system for a prolonged period.
information and networks E C M S of the General Data Protection reviewand report on the operation wasinformed by a benchmark considers that, in assessing the viability p42 Regulation GDPR from 2018. ofall IT controls annually.
exercise and a cyber insurance review.
ofthe Company, its investment and The results of the bottom up scenario modelling showed that no individual event or planning horizon of three years, plausible combination of events would have a financial impact sufficient to endanger supportedby detailed financial Financial risk theviability of the Company in the period assessed.
It would, therefore, be likely that modelling, is the appropriate period.
theCompany would be able to withstand the impact of such scenarios occurring over We maintain an open defined The Group maintains close dialogue During 2018 we took advantage of 12.
Ineffective benefitpension scheme in the UK, with the UK Pension Trustee, and the further improvements in the funding theassessment period.
management which faces similar risks to other move to a career average capped position to reduce the proportion ofpension fund defined benefit schemes such as salary basis of calculation in 2016 ofreturn seeking assets to 50%, Viability statement Jez Maiden future investment returns, longer life mitigated some of the risks.
The reducing the value at risk in the Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the Directors confirm that they Executive owner expectancy and regulatory changes pension fund investment strategy scheme.
The remaining return seeking that could result in pension schemes including a triennial valuation review assets are well diversified to provide a havean expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet becoming more of a financial burden.
is delivered with the support of degree of protection against economic itsliabilities as they fall due over the next three years to 31 December 2021 in line with professional advisers, and trained or political risks.
Approximately 85% theCompanys financial and strategic time planning horizons.
pension fund Trustee Directors take of the fund liabilities are now hedged professional advice and monitor for changes in interest rates and E C M S andreview arrangements quarterly.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Strategic Report on 26 February 2019.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
