Directors Report Corporate Governance: At a glance Board time p51 Progress on focus areas for 2018: Board composition and diversity 10 Status Gender of Tenure of Directors Number of meetings Key actions What we did the Board Working with the Executive Committee, articulated the Groups purpose Ongoing Perform longer term Proportion of time spent by SmartScience to Improve Lives strategic reviews theBoard in key areas: Developed ambitious long term strategic objectives, built upon the United Nations 55% Strategy Sustainable Development Goals.
2 25% Delivering growth Assessed the collective Board expertise and experience and identified Completed Oversee the recruitment 1 year Female opportunitiesfor new appointments ofa new Non-Executive 10% 3 Driving innovation 33% Appointed Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Ferguson as independent Director and consider 6 years 20% Sustainable solutions Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Appointed Alan Ferguson as Senior Independent Director upon 1 15% People succession Nigel Turners retirement Male 2-3 years 20% Financial, risk and Appointed Helena Ganczakowski as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 67% performance management inpreparation for Steve Williams retirement in April 2019.
10% Governance and reporting Working with the Risk Management Committee and generic risk owners, reviewed Ongoing Refine risk appetite for 3 andrefreshed the risk appetite for each risk 3-6 years key Company risks Developed a risk appetite statement for risk sub-categories to be shared with the Board in 2019.
External assessment of the Executive Committee completed to identify development Completed Commission an external Board changes during the year p49 and p66 areas and strengthen succession planning: assessment also included external gap analysis for succession Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Ferguson appointed, Nigel Turner retired, Alan Ferguson appointed SID, Helena Ganczakowski appointed Chair of benchmarking.
theRemuneration Committee Undertook a review of the Groups core values Completed Define those elements of Developed a new code of conduct.
the culture to preserve to Board skills and support long term success experience p44 Areas of opportunity for future Develop mechanisms Received reports on performance of capital expenditure projects against the Completed Current skills Board appointments approvedbusiness plans forthe evaluation of Received regular reports on the performance of recently acquired companies pastBoard decisions Undertook a comprehensive review of the bio-surfactants plant in North America andlessons learnt from the project Emerging markets In 2019 we will undertake an evaluation of past decisions concerning innovation.
Sector Operational Financial Strategy Sustainability Digital marketing Risk Innovation Technical Marketing Looking ahead to 2019 Meetings During the year the Board will: Financial Membership of the Board and attendance eligibility at Board meetings held during the General Health year ended 31 December 2018.
Digital International Continue our focus on safety management & safety Audit chair leadership at all levels of Anita Frew Chair 10 10 theorganisation Roberto Cirillo 5 5 Alan Ferguson 10 10 Professional backgrounds: sales, banking, legal, accountancy, marketing, Continue to nurture and promote general management, digital, R&D Jacqui Ferguson 3 3 the Croda values and culture Steve Foots 10 10 Nationalities: British and Swiss Spend time looking at insights Helena Ganczakowski 10 10 and longer term trends Keith Layden 10 10 Key stakeholders p56 fromourcustomers and Jez Maiden 10 10 theexternalmarkets Nigel Turner 4 5 Employees Shareholders Customers Local Communities Suppliers Steve Williams 10 10 Ensure sustainability and digital become integral components Roberto Cirillo joined the Board on 26 April 2018.
Jacqui Ferguson joined the Board on ofour long term strategy 1 September 2018. development.
Nigel Turner retired from the Board on 25 April 2018.
He was unable to attend one Board meeting dueto personal commitments.
Employee engagement Directors site visits p57 Total number Different Different manufacturing Countries of site visits sites sites visited 38 26 15 14 Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Leadership Board activity in 2018 At the date of this report, the Board balance and diversity within the Board.
enough time is devoted, during meetings comprises nine Directors: the Chair: the Akey consideration for any new Board and throughout the year, to discuss all Strategy Group Chief Executive: the Group Finance appointment will be the additional breadth material matters, including strategic, Delivering growth Financial, risk Director: five independent Non-Executive a new Director could bring, in terms of financial, operational, business, risk, p20 25% and performance Directors and one non-independent skills, knowledge, experience, gender human resources and governance issues.
Delivering management Product manufacturing strategies growth Non-Executive Director, who was the orethnicity.
Directors biographical Consideration of various acquisition 20% Companys Chief Technology Officer notesappear on pages 44 and 45 The Board has taken action to strike a 25% opportunities, with approvals for untilhis retirement in 2017.
balance between reporting, approvals and acquisitions of Plant Impact, Board allows time for full discussion and governance matters, whilst ensuring more Nautilus and BioSector debate of items and enables all Directors With support from the Company Secretary, time is devoted to major strategic issues.
Digital strategy including views to be heard.
The Non-Executive the Chair sets the annual Board agenda Governance Board projectsfor digital marketing Directors have a broad range of business, programme and Board meeting agendas and reporting activity ande-commerce platforms financial and international skills and and determines the number of meetings 10% in 2018 Capital expenditure approvals Driving experience, which provide appropriate tobe held during the year.
She ensures innovation including approval of a new warehouse facility in the UK 10% andexpansion and development Role and operation of the Board ofmanufacturing capacity and People capability in China, France The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group.
In this role, it oversees the development of a clear Sustainable andtheUK 15% Group strategy, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate solutions Adjacent market opportunities controls and systems exist to manage risk.
Business presentations, 20% includingof the Companys Specific Board matters BeautyActives business and The matters reserved for the Board fall into four broad areas: Botanical Extracts business.
Matters required by law to be reserved for the Boards decision, such as approving the Annual Report and Accounts, Driving innovation 1 appointing new Directors and declaring dividends p20 10% Board and Committee People 15% Product innovation programmes  The requirements of the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, such as approving circulars to Talent review and succession planning 2 Defence strategy and and technology platforms shareholders and other significant communications Approval of the appointment of Technology led acquisitions capitalmarketsupdate Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, such as ensuring the Group has a sound system of internal control Investor relations review andentrepreneurial cells Fergusonas Directors 3 and risk management, and approving the Board and Committees terms of reference New and Protected Stakeholders and review of Appointment of a new Pension engagement mechanisms Productspipeline Trustee Chair and an independent Other matters, such as approval of the Groups strategy and budget, material corporate transactions and Innovation and Research Review of and change to 4 Trustee Director to the UK capitalexpenditure.
andDevelopment metrics PensionScheme Open Innovation and Extension of the terms of office The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be found at www.
Financial, risk and ofMessrs Williams and Ferguson performance management asDirectors Sustainable solutions 20% Diversity notably the Board diversity p20 20% policy, diversity and inclusion of Trading performance ourworkforce and the gender pay Safety, health, environment and Review of key risks, internal and All of the Directors undertook one or more Outside the boardroom The Boards 2018 quality including behavioural gapreporting external assurance of each risk additional site visits outside of these two In addition to formal Board meetings, activities and priorities Crodas purpose and cultural values safety, safety leadership and as well as risk appetite Board site visits.
Further details are theBoard undertook two site visits process safety Review of actions following the Preparations for Brexit, including onpage 57.
The Board has an agenda programme duringthe year.
employee culture survey Sustainability strategy and targets thekey risks and mitigating actions thatensures strategic, operational, Review of Sustainability Report Development programme for the Dividend policy and The Directors attended two off-site financial, human resources and corporate In May they spent a day in the laboratories Executive Committee and other Senior management succession dividendapprovals meetings to review the Groups strategy, governance items are discussed at the at Cowick Hall where they gained insights Responsible business activities seniorleaders Long term viability statement one focusing on the long term strategy and appropriate time at Board meetings.
into many of our new development and Health and safety of our including the ethical supply chain The Groups budget, forecasts the other the three year plan.
The Board TheBoard agenda has strong links to research projects.
This took the form of compliance programme and employeesand contractors andkey performance targets met with the Groups financial and public thestrategic objectives for the Business.
multiple interactive demonstrations and All-employee sharesave grants modern slavery programme andindicators relations advisers to discuss the feedback The Board has seven routine meetings provided a fun and informal environment Completion of the Companys The Boards engagement with Changes to tax legislation and a from investors and analysts on the Groups during the year and an additional strategy outside of the boardroom for the Directors employees and the employee voice.
bio-surfactants plant in review of the Companys tax and annual results.
day, which is attended by members of the to engage with the R&D teams.
NorthAmerica treasury policies Executive Committee.
The strategy day in Review of the United Nations Governance and reporting The UK pension scheme funding The Chair spends a considerable the first half of the year is followed by In September the Board visited our Sustainable Development Goals andinvestment strategy 10% amountof time meeting with Steve Foots theconsideration of the three year plan in manufacturing site laboratories and sales and alignment with the Companys A post-implementation capital and the senior management team at the Review of Annual Report the autumn and then the approval of the offices of Sederma, our French actives long term strategy and purpose.
expenditure review Companys head office.
This ensures andAccounts and other budget towards the end of the year.
Further details are on page 47.
Renewal of the Groups thatshe is kept appraised of significant financialstatements highlights of the Boards 2018 activities insuranceprogramme.
developments in the Business between and priorities are set out on page 51, along Board meetings.
In addition, the Chair with an estimate of the proportion of the andNon-Executive Directors met together time that the Board spent discussing without the Executive Directors present.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Board roles Governance structure The Board has three main Committees: The day-to-day operational management SHEQ Steering Committee: the Group Chair Group Chief Executive Executive Directors Senior Independent theAudit Committee, the Remuneration ofthe Business is delegated by the Board Ethics Committee, and the Routine Director The Chair leads the Board and is The Group Chief Executive The role of an Executive Committee and the Nomination to the Group Chief Executive, who uses Business Committee.
For further responsible for promoting open hasday-to-day responsibility Director is to bring a The Senior Independent Director Committee.
The terms of reference several Committees to assist him in this information on each of these and effective communication forthe effective management commercial and internal provides a sounding board for the foreach BoardCommittee can be task: the Group Executive Committee: Committeessee page 68. between the Executive and ofthe Groups business and for perspective to the Chair and acts as an intermediary found at www.
theGroup Finance Committee: the Risk Non-Executive Directors and ensuring that Board decisions are boardroom.
Working with for the Non-Executive Directors, Management Committee: the Group forcreating an environment implemented.
He plays a key role the Group Chief Executive, where necessary.
He is available to Safety, Health, Environment and Quality atBoard meetings in which in devising and reviewing Group they are responsible for the shareholders where communication allDirectors contribute to strategies for discussion and leadership and management through the Chair or Executive discussions and feel comfortable approval by the Board.
The of the Company according Directors has not been successful or in engaging in healthy debate Group Chief Executive is tasked to the strategic direction where it may not seem appropriate.
with providing regular reports setby the Board.
The Senior Independent Director tothe Board on all matters of isresponsible for leading the Group The Chair leads the annual significance relating to the Non-Executive Directors in Board Board effectiveness review Groups business, or reputation, appraising the performance of the Chaired by process and ensures that all new to ensure that the Board has Chair and intheir discussions of Anita Frew Directors have an appropriately accurate, timely and clear her term ofappointment and fees.
Principal Board Committees Group Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Audit Committee Chaired by Alan Ferguson Chaired by Steve Foots Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and announcements, the effectiveness Group of internal controls and risk management as well as Board managing the external auditor relationship.
For more information see pages 61 to 65.
Group Finance Committee Chaired by Steve Foots Remuneration Committee Risk Management Committee Chaired by Helena Ganczakowski Chaired by Jez Maiden Approves the Companys Remuneration Policy andframework and determines the remuneration packages for members of senior management.
Formore information see pages 69 to 89.
Group SHEQ Steering Committee Independent Non-Independent Group General Counsel Chaired by Stuart Arnott Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors andCompany Secretary The role of independent Non-Executive Having served Croda for 33 years, the The Group General Counsel and Company Director is central to an effective and latterfive of which were as a member of Secretary is secretary to the Board and accountable Board structure.
They the Board, Keith Layden is not considered itsCommittees.
He ensures that Board constructively challenge the Executive independent.
However, because of that procedures are complied with and advises Nomination Committee Group Ethics Committee Directors and scrutinise the performance of experience, Keith contributes strongly to on regulatory compliance and corporate Chaired by Anita Frew management in meeting agreed goals and the Boards culture and personality, and governance.
In addition, he develops Chaired by Tom Brophy Reviews the structure, size and composition of the objectives.
They help develop and monitor adds unique and valuable insight and Board and Committee agendas and Board and its Committees, identifies and nominates the delivery of the strategy within the risk constructive challenge.
With appropriate collates and distributes meeting papers.
suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and control framework set by the Board.
management of conflicts, Keith can Hefacilitates induction programmes for and has responsibility for Board and Executive They determine appropriate levels of constructively challenge the Executive new Directors and provides briefings on Committee succession planning.
For more remuneration for Executive Directors Directors and scrutinise the performance of governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Routine Business Committee information see pages 66 to 67. andhave a prime role in succession management in meeting agreed goals and Chaired by Steve Foots or planning and the appointment and, objectives in a way largely unavailable to Jez Maiden wherenecessary, the removal of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued tocomplement and support management The results were discussed in detail by iPad-accessible, web portal.
The independence of the Non-Executive Details of the professional commitments of Effectiveness and add value.
Demand for exceptional, theBoard, with facilitation by the Chair Followingfeedback from previous Board Directors is kept under review.
The Chair the Chair and the Non-Executive Directors Board re-election highly qualified directors is growing and andthe Company Secretary.
The Board effectiveness reviews and leveraging was independent upon her appointment are included in their biographies on pages The Board has a broad range of skills and increasingly specialist skills are required deliberations remain constructive and experience gained from other boards, in2015 but, as Chair, is not classified 44 and 45.
The Board is satisfied that these experience from different industries, advisory inthe boardroom.
robust, with high levels of energy and pace.
papers have been significantly shortened, asindependent.
With the exception of do not interfere with the performance of roles and from international markets.
The addition of new Directors has brought concentrating on performance through the Keith Layden, the Board considers that their duties for the Company.
The Board undertakes a formal review of a positive dynamic to Board discussions.
use of KPI dashboards and distinguishing allNon-Executive Directors who served These skills support the strategic aims its performance and that of its Committees Board meetings are well led by the Chair information reporting from decisions during the year are independent in During 2018, no independent Nonofthe Company.
The 2017 review was conducted and the agendas are balanced.
Meeting papers are made available character and judgement, with no Executive Director had served on the performance assessments, the Board is by Egon Zehnder, an external board review changes made in 2017 to rebalance the one week in advance, which ensures that relationships or circumstances that are Board for more than nine years from the satisfied that each Director continues to specialist.
The key actions following the Board agendas with the aim of freeing each Director has the time and resources likely to affect, or could appear to affect, date of their first election, with the range perform effectively, allocates sufficient review and the progress in meeting more time for high level strategic decisions to fulfil his her duties.
Directors have the their judgement.
Keith Layden is not between three years and eight and a half timefor his her duties and remains fully themare summarised on page 49. are working well and the Board has opportunity to raise questions stemming considered independent, having served years.
Keith Layden served just over five committed to his her role.
With the continued its involvement in strategy from the papers prior to the meeting, asthe Companys Chief Technology years as an Executive Director, prior to his exception of Steve Williams, all Directors This year we conducted the review using formulation and is working alongside should they wish to do so.
A resource Officer prior to retirement from the appointment as a Non-Executive Director will stand for re-election election at an online questionnaire tailored to Crodas theExecutive Committee to shape centre within the web portal provides Company and appointment as a on 1 May 2017. the2019 AGM.
Full biographies for activities and current concerns.
Separate theCompanys purpose and long term access to useful information about the Non-Executive Director in May 2017. theDirectors are on pages 44 and 45, questionnaires were also used for the strategic priorities.
Underpinning the long Group, including corporate governance The terms and conditions of appointment withmore detail at www.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination term strategic planning, the Directors have materials, finance and strategy information, of Non-Executive Directors can be viewed Conflicts of interest Committees.
A report was prepared based clarity on the Companys values and how Group policies and procedures, and at www.
They can be inspected The Board has an established process Board performance on the completed questionnaires, which they influence the organisations culture.
information on topics such as risk during normal business hours at the fordeclaring and monitoring actual The nature of Board service has facilitated an evaluation of the effectiveness Board papers had already been streamlined andinsurance.
Companys registered office by contacting andpotential conflicts.
The Articles of significantly changed, requiring an ever of the Board and its Committees and the and work will now be undertaken to the Company Secretary and will also be Association of the Company allow the wider range of skills and greater time support and information received from standardise the format of papers Independence of available for inspection at the AGM.
non-conflicted members of the Board to commitment.
The Board is not just management and advisers.
including more consistent use of executive Non-Executive Directors authorise a conflict or potential conflict agoverning body: boards are being summaries.
The Board was clear on the Time commitment situation.
Steve Williams has consultancy Croda complies with the Financial leveraged as a competitive advantage top strategic issues facing the Company.
Reporting Councils Reporting Code roles with Eversheds LLP, which provides Each Director is aware of the need to legal services to the Group of immaterial allocate sufficient time to the Company theCode in having experienced Areas for focus and opportunities for 2019 Non-Executive Directors who represent monetary value, and Spencer Stuart, a todischarge his her responsibilities Case study: Directors induction were agreed by the Board, see page 49. search consultancy firm that has previously effectively.
In addition to time spent asource of strong advice, judgement andchallenge to the Executive Directors.
Jez Maiden has a atBoard and Committee meetings, Upon joining Croda, Directors receive Board support Non-Executive Director role on the board theDirectors participate in several At present there are seven such Directors, atailored induction programme.
Both Each Director has access to the advice including the Chair and the Senior of PZ Cussons Plc, a customer of Croda.
Company related events: details are Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Ferguson andservices of the Company Secretary.
The Board does not consider that these set out on page 50 and 57.
Independent Director, each of whom areundergoing their induction following Where necessary, the Directors may take hassignificant commercial experience.
roles would affect Steves or Jezs their appointment to the Board during independent professional advice at the judgement in relation to Croda and Their understanding of the Groups External consultants the year.
As new Directors they need Companys expense.
operations is enhanced by regular itsbusiness.
In the period Deloitte have provided toquickly absorb a great deal about the  and site visits.
remuneration consultancy to the Business if they are to fulfil their roles Training and briefings are available to Remuneration Committee.
Our tailored allDirectors taking into account their inductions offer a swift and thorough existing experience, qualifications and way to help them understand our skills.
In order to build and increase the business, markets, culture and both to explore our complex Non-Executive Directors familiarity with, relationships and to establish manufacturing processes and approach When planning an induction we take the following steps: and understanding of, the Groups people, a link with employees.
to process safety and behavioural safety.
businesses and markets, senior managers They were also able to discuss our regularly make presentations at Board As part of their induction, Jacqui challenging sustainability targets and find meetings.
The Board also receives regular andRoberto gained a thorough out about quality and regulatory matters.
face-to-face briefings from the Company understanding of our business through Jacqui and Roberto have also met with Secretary and, where appropriate, the meetings with Croda employees across our key advisers financial, brokers, legal, Companys professional advisers.
As well all regions in which we operate.
This remuneration and with our auditors.
as planned training on governance, legal included site visits, typically hosted and regulatory matters, the programme byone of our Executive Committee From the outset of their appointment issufficiently flexible to capture new members.
This allowed them to get to Roberto and Jacqui were given lots of andemerging regulation, development know the regional and local leadership opportunities to spend time engaging stemming from evaluation and specific teams and to discuss a wide range of with, and talking to, a wide variety of 1 2 3 4 training requests from Directors.
Each topics, including the local organisation employees across all functions and Directors training programme includes Bespoke programme Varied delivery Length Review structure, growth plans, strategic seniorities.
They have visited a number thesame online training on competition Our Company Secretary We use diverse formats to Conscious of a Directors other The Company Secretary priorities, risks and the competitive of our manufacturing sites and sales lawand anti-bribery and corruption discusses how the programme communicate information.
commitments and not wanting andthe new Director have landscape.
Jacqui and Roberto also offices in Singapore, Spain, USA, astaken by managers and selected should be tailored to meet a These include iPad reading to overload him her with too regular reviews, with input spent time at our laboratories with the Franceand the UK.
This included time employees across the Business.
materials, meetings with much information in too short from the Chair, to agree research and development teams, where atdinners and social events.
Through employees and fellow a time, we deliver the induction what extra insights the they gained insight into technology these interactions they were able to gain Before each Board meeting, the Directors, briefings and over the full Board cycle of induction needs to deliver.
platforms and chemistries, as well as our an insight into the Croda culture and our CompanySecretary makes sure that training from external 12months.
Visiting values, which are a key differentiator themeeting papers and other information advisersand site visits.
our manufacturing sites enabled them between us and our competitors.
are delivered electronically, via a secure, Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
