Strategic Report Making a difference to The changing population The global population is growing and changing fast.
Businesses must also change if they are to survive, turn challenges into opportunities and be part of apositive global response.
This unprecedented population growth Our high quality ingredients also play a Our recent acquisition of Plant Impact World demographics Croda Life Sciences Supporting the ageing population and changing demographics create a central role in the new pharmaceutical, broadens our agricultural portfolio areundergoing Feeding the world The ageing population is currently at its dramatically different landscape for the anti-ageing and beauty products withbiostimulants.
These use non-GM, unprecedentedchange highest level in human history, placing Our growing crop care portfolio is future and the challenge will fall upon demanded by todays and tomorrows toxicologically benign and environmentally ahuge burden on health systems.
Our With global population set to reach 9.7bn optimising the quality and yield of both governments and businesses to consumer.
We aim to manufacture these safe small molecule chemistry to work range of high purity excipients supports by 2050, without action the world will farmers crops.
For instance, seed findsustainable solutions to meet the ingredients sustainably by minimising with the plants natural responses, the delivery of some of the most face significant food shortages in the treatments increase the yield of evolving demand.
thenegative impact of our operations, improving productivity both in ideal challenging drug molecules, getting them years to come.
Alongside this, although vegetables and field crops by enhancing which includes ongoing investment in climates and in conditions of high heat, to where they are most needed within the wealth distribution is uneven, many seed performance using innovative technologies such as renewable drought or salinity.
Meanwhile, our crop Our opportunities to body.
They offer many benefits, including developing countries report a growing technologies.
By providing film coatings energysources to reduce our protection range of naturally derived makeadifference enhanced stability and extended release, middle class.
The growth in this group to our customers, we can better optimise relianceonfossil fuels.
formulation additives supports our These trends are generating new markets meaning health care is increasingly means that more people can afford a their seeds while reducing the amount customers in getting the most out of their for us at Croda, and for the products we accessible and convenient for the more varied, protein-rich diet and have ofcrop protectants used.
In addition, As our business grows, we are active ingredients, in an environmentally make, which have a positive impact on patient, with fewer clinic visits required.
money to spend on preventative, as ourpriming technology delivers fast and focusingon employing an increasingly sensitive way.
We anticipate wellas curative health care.
uniform germination under a wide variety diverse, multi-skilled global workforce a clear demand for sustainable, targeted We will continue to invest in innovative of conditions: if seeds germinate quickly that truly represents our changing Improving agricultural yields through our innovations to increase crop quality and technologies that drive health and Meanwhile, populations are living for and all at the same time, the crop will societies, customers and consumers.
extensive agricultural product and service yields, giving us an opportunity to wellbeing.
Most recently we acquired longer than ever before and the ageing develop faster and uniformly, and make Wewill attract and keep the very best by offerings does not just mean more food contribute to global food security.
Biosector, which adds a range of population can access a wider range cultivation and harvesting more efficient.
providing exciting opportunities to make for more people.
It also means more food advanced vaccine adjuvants to our ofmedical and consumer products to a real difference in the changing world.
from the same amount of land, potentially portfolio that enable the efficient meet their essential and desirable needs.
reducing issues of deforestation while deliveryof vaccines for widespread Focus on anti-ageing, wellbeing and delivering better quality produce, with disease prevention.
fitness self-care products continues less food waste.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Strategic Report Making a difference to The changing environment As the debate on the cause and impact of climate change continues, what is clear is that businesses must act now to do more with fewer of the planets precious resources, and with less negative environmental and social impact.
supply and local economic development, Croda Energy Technologies lead the In a fragile world we must be Our opportunities to Croda Performance Minimising negative impact and our drug excipients and newly wayin lubricant fluids and in 2018 part of the solution makeadifference Technologies Through a number of investments at our TM acquired vaccine adjuvants business, launched the new range of Perfad manufacturing sites, we have reduced The continuing accumulation of From our unique position focused on Maximising positive impact Biosector, also directly address the SDGs friction modifiers that enhance engine greenhouse gases is described as the using bio-based raw materials, rather our environmental impact.
For example, We are committed to minimising any for prevention of disease.
durability, fuel economy and emission our Performance Technologies sector main cause of global warming, with the than petrochemical, we have a real negative environmental impact of our reduction.
The business is also investing predicted result that sea levels will rise by opportunity to contribute directly to the benefits from the bio-fermentation plant operations, but increasingly important are Reaching wider than our own products in phase change materials.
These can at our Gouda manufacturing site in the at least 30cm by the end of the century, targets supporting the United Nations the positive impacts of our ingredients in and operations, we are taking the beused, for instance, in temperaturealong with more frequent extreme Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Netherlands, which has reduced its customer applications.
opportunity to inform and shape future controlled packaging and to store external energy dependency by 25%.
Both affect food and water as our ingredients are used in a wide policy on climate change with our voice thermal energy, thereby saving energy supply just when the growing global variety of consumer products.
Our Chocques site in France uses energy Coupling performance advantages with on industry committees.
Being open and and fuel in internal combustion engines, from the city incinerator, and in Hull in population needs it most, bringing increased bio-based content, our Home transparent, we also work to minimise hybrid and electric vehicles, as well as to increased international pressure to In our businesses, there are many theUK, our 27m capital expansion Care ingredients deliver sustainability and environmental and social impact along store heat generated by day in homes for project is re-using 95% of building restrict climate change.
examples of our ingredients bringing sensory effects across the whole value our entire supply chains and report our use at night.
about major reductions in greenhouse demolition materials to save energy, chain, from polymer fibre to end garment, performance publicly.
keepwaste out of landfill and reduce This, along with ever more scarce gas emissions when included in at the same time reducing water and In Smart Materials, our environmentally naturalresources, means a growing customers formulations: for example, greenhouse gas emissions.
friendly and durable Maxemul coating demand for innovative sustainable inengine lubricants where one tonne of Forexample, our Coltide surfactants solutions are VOC free, reducing our TM products produced using fewer and our Perfad friction modifier saves over In addition, we have invested in a pipeline extend the lifetime of garments by carbon footprint.
We also offer antithat enables us to use landfill gases at moreeffective ingredients, from bio- 1,700Te of CO emissions.
In application, keeping them looking newer for longer.
2 scratch solutions to reduce the repair and based raw materials, made using our Life Sciences products make a real our Atlas Point manufacturing site.
This replacement needs of high performance site also uses solar energy, as we do at moreenvironmentally and socially difference to the lives of farmers in plastic components, reducing the use of sensitive processes.
developing nations, addressing food our Edison offices in North America and scarce resources.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
