Directors Report Our Board Our leadership team Key Anita Frew, 61 Steve Foots, 50 Jez Maiden, 57 Alan Ferguson, 61 Helena Chair of the Committee Chair Group Chief Group Finance Non-Executive Director Ganczakowski, 56 Member of the Committee Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Secretary of the Committee Director Director N E F SHEQ R E F Nomination Committee N A RM N RM A N Appointment: Appointment: July Appointment: Remuneration Committee RM March2015 2010 and Group January 2015 Audit Committee A andChair since Chief Executive since asGroup Appointment: Appointment: Risk Management Committee R September 2015 the beginning of 2012 FinanceDirector July2011 February 2014 Group Executive Committee E With 23 years of experience in marketing Group Ethics Committee ET I have served on Plc boards in Joining Croda as a graduate trainee I am an experienced Group Finance As a CFO, Non-Executive and Audit thechemical, resources, engineering, in1990, I bring to the Board a business, Director, having served in this role on five Committee Chair, I have worked for a and corporate strategy at Unilever and a Group Finance Committee F further eight as a strategic consultant for waterand financial services industries strategic and operational background UK listed company Boards.
As a chartered number of large international businesses Group SHEQ Committee SHEQ forover 20years.
Prior to joining Croda gained from a number of senior leadership management accountant, my expertise in including Inchcape, BOC, Johnson Matthey other multi-national businesses, I aim to bring marketing skill and an end-consumer Iwas Chair of Victrex Plc and Senior roles across the Group.
Having spent all aspects of finance management, gained and The Weir Group.
This breadth of Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset several years leading many different Croda in speciality chemical, FMCG and other experience has given me exposure to perspective to the boardroom, as well aschallenge and support to the CEO in Management Plc and IMI plc.
During my businesses, I also have great insight into manufacturing environments, allows me diverse end markets, many of which Croda time as a director I chaired main boards, the markets we serve, the importance tosupport the Board and Executive of serves, and deep international financial strategy development.
My academic roots in engineering, with a PhD from Cambridge Remuneration, Responsible Business ofcustomer focus and the power of our Croda in managing the performance of the experience.
I have also seen what good andRisk Committees.
Currently, I am also innovative culture.
Outside of Croda, my Business, risk management and control, looks like in areas such as leadership, University, drive my passion and curiosity for both product and process innovation.
Deputy Chair of Lloyds Banking Group plc role as Chair of the UK Chemistry Council and in capital allocation and investment compliance and health and safety.
I share and a Non-Executive Director of BHP Plc enables me to work alongside government evaluation.
I act as business partner to Crodas passion for sustainability and Iam also a Non-Executive Director of Greggs Plc.
I therefore bring to the ministers and industry peers tobring wider theGroup Chief Executive and lead the working hard whilst having fun.
I feel a Croda Board extensive experience as Chair industry knowledge into ourbusiness.
Outside of Croda deep responsibility to serve Crodas and leadership in strategic management, Iam a Non-Executive Director and Audit shareholders well.
mergers and acquisitions and risk Committee Chair of PZ Cussons Plc.
experience from working internationally across many sectors.
Roberto Cirillo, 47 Jacqui Ferguson, 48 Keith Layden, 59 Steve Williams, 71 Tom Brophy, 45 Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Group General Counsel Director Director Director Director and Company Secretary A RM N A RM N N A RM N ET A RM N R E Appointment: February 2012 and Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Non-Executive Director Appointment: December 2012 April2018 September 2018 since May 2017 July2010 asBoard Secretary With ten years experience as Country I am an experienced CEO from I bring to the Board 33 years experience Ive been around boardrooms either in I am an experienced corporate lawyer, thetechnology industry with general anexecutive or non-executive capacity having worked at City law firm Hogan andGroup CEO in the Service and Health of working at Croda in a variety of Care industries, and many years spent as management and M&A experience positions, most recently leading the Global forsome 35 years, many of which were Lovells and FTSE 100 company Ferguson.
astrategy practitioner in Europe and Asia, ininternational and emerging markets.
asGeneral Counsel and Chief Legal Officer My expertise of public and private Research, Development and Innovation Ibring to the boardroom my knowledge Ihave first-hand insight of transformational function and President of the Global Life at Unilever Plc.
My fellow Board members acquisitions supports Crodas inorganic and passion in growth and operations.
disruptive digital, cyber security, technology and I have a great capacity and willingness growth plans and my professional Sciences business.
I also have an interest Ialso share lessons-learned from large and business process solutions.
I spent and background in organisational culture, to learn: it is what helps make the Croda background and breadth of experience transformations and M&A.
My engineering three years in Silicon Valley as Chief of Board special.
I know which behaviours ininsurance, risk and compliance which is a key consideration in the decision background enables me to link Crodas Staff at Hewlett Packard focused on a making of the Board.
In my roles of work around the board table, and how to enableme to lead Crodas responsible R&D and production competences with newcompany strategy and turnaround.
help frame an open and honest discussion business programme and Chair the Honorary Professor of Chemistry and theevolving demands of its multinational Ialso chaired the public services strategy Industry at the University of Nottingham, in order to surface controversial issues EthicsCommittee.
Next to my role as Non-Executive board for the CBI.
Away from Croda, I am without rancour.
Ive thoroughly enjoyed governance knowhow to the Board and member of Council at the University of Director for Croda, from April 2019 I will be aNon-Executive Director of Wood Plc and Sheffield and a Fellow of the Royal mynine years as a Director and send my Croda.
Having spent many years leading CEO of Swiss Post.
I was previously the Tesco Bank, a fellow of the IET, a Trustee very best wishes to everyone at Croda global teams, I am proud to lead Crodas Societyof Chemistry, I widen my network Group CEO at Optegra Eye Health Care of Engineering UK, and a member of the of emerging technology companies and asIretire from the Board in April.
HR team, as well as the Legal and Ltd, France CEO and Group COO at Scottish First Ministers Advisory Board.
research institutes and spot new talent Sodexo SA and Associate Partner at thatwill aid Crodas future success.
McKinsey & Co. Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Directors Report Corporate Governance Chairs letter During the year the Board received the experience in operations and strategy and With Jacquis appointment to the Board Dear fellow shareholder output from the Global Employee Culture Jacqui a deep knowledge of digital as well Iam pleased that we have fulfilled the Case study: In the wake of some recent high-profile Survey conducted at the end of 2017 and as experience in operating in emerging commitment in our Board diversity policy Outside the boardroom corporate failures there is rightly a growing had regular discussions and oversight of markets.
The appointments also bring toreach 33% female representation on spotlight on accountability and business the actions being undertaken across every greater diversity to the Board in terms of ourBoard in the medium term.
I welcome the recent changes country and business in the Group in gender, tenure, nationality and experience.
updated our diversity policy to reflect this to corporate reporting requirements and response to the feedback from the survey.
and have committed to maintain this level of corporate governance and they align with The Boards site visits allow each Director Having served nine years on the Board, representation and stated our aim to reach a how Croda operates with transparency to engage directly with our employees, Steve Williams will retire at this years gender balanced Board in the future.
Our governance framework ensuring they understand first-hand their Annual General Meeting.
I would like information on our Board diversity policy underpins the Boards commitment to the views and insights into our culture, whilst tothank Steve for his outstanding and on our efforts to increase diversity The Board has a highest standards of corporate governance atthe same time creating opportunities for contribution to Croda, in particular in across the Company are on page 66. vitalrole to play in and sets the tone for the rest of the a cultural tone to be cascaded from the hisrole as Chair of the Remuneration organisation.
The Board has a vital role to defining the values boardroom.
On pages 50 and 57 we set Committee.
In preparation for Steves Effectiveness play in promoting and nurturing a culture out details of the Boards programme of retirement, Helena Ganczakowski took andbehaviours needed As Chair, I am responsible for leading and In September the Board visited our and behaviours that are consistent with activities outside the boardroom and our over as Chair of the Remuneration ensuring that we have an effective and manufacturing site, laboratories and to underpin Crodas delivering our strategy and ensuring the engagement with our employees.
This gave Helena functioning Board.
Good progress has sales office of Sederma, our Beauty success of Croda in the long term.
purpose and its longa good period as Chair to prepare for the been made against the actions that the Actives business.
As well as meeting As a Board we ensure that we also Committees review of the Companys term success.
Board set itself following the 2017 Board with the management team, the The Board is accountable to Crodas understand the views of our other key remuneration policy.
Helena has been a effectiveness review.
This progress is Board met with many of the local shareholders for good governance and stakeholders and take them into account member of the Remuneration Committee Anita Frew summarised on page 49. employees, including some of our thisreport, together with the Directors inour discussions and decision-making.
Chair high potential future leaders giving Remuneration Report set out on pages Page 56 describes how the Board engages The Board and Committee review for them a good understanding of 69to 89, describe how the Codes main with each key stakeholder, the issues that We have continued our focus on 2018was conducted using an online thetalent pipeline for our French principles of governance have been applied Governance at a glance 48 are important to each of them and some succession planning to ensure that we questionnaire, designed by Lintstock, with business.
The Board discussed by the Company.
This report includes Leadership 50 examples of how we have considered our have a healthy talent pipeline for future input from me and the Company Secretary.
business performance, competitive insights into how our governance framework key stakeholders in some of the Boards Executive Committee and Board roles.
Effectiveness 54 The evaluation was very positive, and I was landscape, customer insights and underpins and supports our business and decisions made during the year.
Thisyear we have spent time on Relations with stakeholders 56 pleased that the Board dynamics and theemployee talent and succession the decisions we make every day.
development plans for our most senior Accountability 60 composition of the Board, including plans.
The Board engaged in a Leadership employees those members of the diversity, were rated highly supporting the detailed discussion of the sites Audit Committee 61 I am pleased to report that the Company Executive Committee and other key We regularly assess the skills and contribution and effectiveness of our new safetyperformance.
Nomination Committee 66 has complied with the UK Corporate management identified as having Board experiences of the Board to ensure that we Directors Jacqui and Roberto.
The changes Other Committees 68 Governance Code April 2016 for the potential ensuring that their development have the right balance and composition.
we made to rebalance the Board agendas Remuneration Report 69 period under review and is also complying plans are individually tailored and allow us This assessment enables us to identify with the aim of freeing more Board time for early with many of the provisions of the Other disclosures 90 to build up a talent pool for future Board areas of opportunity to bring fresh and high level strategic decisions are working new UK Corporate Governance Code and Executive Committee appointments.
alternative insights to the Board and well.
Further details on the evaluation July2018 that we willbe formally This work is described in more detail in the enhance diversity in its broadest sense.
canbe found on page 54. reporting on in next yearsAnnual Report.
Nomination Committee report on page 66.
Last year this assessment identified We have also started to consider opportunities for us to strengthen the Culture and values succession for Alan Ferguson, who will Boards skills and experience in the areas The Board spends a considerable amount have served on the Board for nine years of international emerging markets, digital of time meeting with employees and in2020.
and general management CEO experience.
visiting our offices and manufacturing sites Following an extensive search summarised Anita Frew around the world.
This year the Directors on page 66 I was delighted to welcome Chair undertook 38 site visits between them, Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Ferguson to visiting a total of 26 sites and sales offices.
theBoard as independent Non-Executive This level of engagement, particularly by Directors.
Roberto joined the Board Case study: the Non-Executive Directors, provides our on26April 2018 and Jacqui joined on Outside the boardroom Board with insights and understanding of 1September 2018.
Both appointments In May, the Board spent a day in our the Business that would not otherwise be have already been of enormous benefit to laboratories at Cowick Hall.
Through gained in their role and which enhances the Croda Board, supporting our strategic multiple interactive and quick fire thequality of decision making and debate.
plans to connect more dynamically to demonstrations, the Board gained customers through the use of technology insights into new technologies and and helping customers transition to more research projects.
The Board spent sustainable ingredients.
Roberto brings timeengaging with the R&D teams with him a wealth of international onpipeline projects and customer unmet needs.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
