Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Directors report Board composition changes Corporate governance report Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 October 2017, and up to the date of The Corporate governance report, found this report, are shown in the table below.
Further details of Board changes can be found on pages 48 to 114, together with this on page 63 of the Corporate governance report and on page 70 of the Governance and report of which it forms part, fulfils the Nomination Committee report.
requirements of the Corporate Date of Governance Statement for the purpose of Date of retirement the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Name Role appointment stepped down Rules DTR.
David Browne Independent Non-Executive Director 30 June 2018 Geeta Gopalan Independent Non-Executive Director 15 October 2018 Company background Darren Pope Independent Non-Executive Director 15 October 2018 The Company was incorporated in England Amy Stirling Non-Executive Director 15 October 2018 and Wales on 18 May 2015 as a public Debbie Crosbie Executive Director 19 November company limited by shares under the 2018 Companies Act 2006 with the name Pianodove PLC.
Pianodove PLC changed Such deeds are available for inspection at the Election and re-election of its name to CYBG PLC on 1 October Companys registered office.
The registered office of the Directors at the forthcoming Company is at 20 Merrion Way, Leeds, The Group has an insurance policy in place AGM West Yorkshire, LS2 8NZ with the Head for the benefit of all trustees, colleagues, The Companys Articles of Association Office and principal place of business of the Directors, officers, members and partners of provide that each Director is subject to Company being 30 St Vincent Place, the Company while acting in the capacity of a election at the first AGM following their Glasgow, G1 2HL.
trustee or administrator of employee benefit appointment: Non-Executive Directors or pension plans.
This policy indemnifies the Geeta Gopalan, Darren Pope and Amy Directors of Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Directors Stirling will be seeking election as Directors Pension Trustee Limited and YCB DC The Directors of the Company who served at the 2019 AGM.
Following Trustee Limited each a Trustee Company, during the year and their biographical recommendations from the Governance the trustees and administrators of the two details are shown on pages 53 to 57 and Nomination Committee, the Board occupational pension schemes operated by together with David Browne, who retired considers all Directors continue to be the Group, against liability incurred by them as an independent Non-Executive Director effective, committed to their roles and have in connection with the management and on 30 June 2018 and Debbie Crosbie who sufficient time available to discharge their administration of the pension schemes.
This stepped down as an Executive Director of duties.
insurance policy constitutes a pension the Company on 19 November 2018. scheme indemnity provision and a qualifying In accordance with the Code, all other indemnity provision for the purposes of Particulars of Directors emoluments and current Directors will retire and seek sections 235 to 236 of the Companies Act interests in shares in the Company are re-election at the 2019 AGM.
These provisions are in force for the given on pages 96 to 110 of the Directors benefit of the Directors of Trustee remuneration report.
Directors indemnities Companies at the date of this report, and During the year, no Director had a material were in force when this report was approved The Directors have each entered into interest in any contract of significance to and during the financial year to which this individual deeds of access, insurance and which the Company or a subsidiary report relates.
Such policy is available for indemnity with the Group which, among undertaking was a party.
inspection at the Companys registered office.
other things and subject to certain exceptions, indemnify the Directors to the In addition, the Group had appropriate Annual general meeting AGM maximum extent permitted by law and Directors and Officers Liability Insurance regulation against liabilities to a person other The Companys 2019 AGM will be held at cover in place throughout the financial year.
than the Company or an associated company 10.00am Melbourne time AEDT on that they may incur as an officer of the Wednesday 30 January 2019 at the Company and any other subsidiary of the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Group.
Each such provision constitutes a Centre, 1 Convention Centre Place, South third-party indemnity provision and a Wharf, Melbourne, Victoria, 2006, qualifying indemnity provision for the Australia.
Details of the meeting venue and purposes of section 234 to 236 of the the resolutions to be proposed, together Companies Act 2006.
These provisions are with explanatory notes, are set out in a in force for the benefit of the Directors at separate Notice of AGM which is published the date of this report, and were in force on the Companys website www.
com when this report was approved and during the financial year to which this report relates.
116 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors report With the exception of restrictions on the Profits and appropriations Financial risk management transfer of ordinary shares under the objectives and policies The Group loss before tax for the financial Companys SIP, while the shares are subject year ended 30 September 2018 amounted Information about internal controls and to the rules of the plan, there are no to 114m 2017: profit of 268m.
The loss financial risk management systems in restrictions which exist on the transfer or attributable to the ordinary shareholders relation to financial reporting and Board holding of securities in the Company under for the year ended 30 September 2018 review can be found on page 66 of the its Articles of Association and there are no amounted to 133m 2017: profit of Corporate governance report.
shares carrying special rights with regards 146m.
As at 30 September 2018, the to the control of the Company.
Information about financial risk distributable reserves of the Company Subject to the Articles of Association and management objectives and policies in were 1,005m 2017: 1,002m.
provisions of relevant statutes, the Board relation to the use of financial instruments may exercise all powers of the Company.
can be found in the Risk report on pages Dividends 121 to 170.
The Directors recommend a final dividend Acquisition of own shares of 3.1p per ordinary share in the Company Post-balance sheet events At the AGM of the Company held on in respect of the year ended 30 September On 10 October 2018, the Group received 31 January 2018 a resolution was passed 2018 2017: 0.01 which will be subject to IRB accreditation from the PRA for both its that the Directors were authorised to approval by shareholders at the 2019 mortgage and SME portfolios.
The Group purchase up to a maximum of 88,494,877 Annual General Meeting.
continues to progress its Retail unsecured ordinary shares representing approximately lending IRB application.
10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
A Amendment to the Articles of renewal of authority will be sought at the On 15 October 2018, CYBG PLC acquired Association 2019 AGM.
Further information is set out all of the voting rights in Virgin Money by in the Notice of AGM.
The Company may only amend its Articles means of a Scheme of Arrangement under of Association if its shareholders pass a Part 26 of the UK Companies Act 2006 special resolution to that effect.
Political donations for a purchase consideration of 1.6bn.
Following completion, the Bank The Group did not give any money for Share capital, control and subsequently acquired all the voting rights political purposes nor did it make any in Virgin Money for a consideration of Directors powers political donations to political parties or 1.6bn.
other political organisations, or to any Shares in the Company are listed on both independent election candidates, or incur On 26 October 2018 the High Court ruled the London Stock Exchange LSE and the any political expenditure during the year.
At on a landmark pensions case relating to the ASX in the form of CHESS Depositary the Annual General Meeting in 2018, defined benefits pension schemes operated Interests CDIs and therefore the Company shareholders gave authority under Part 14 by Lloyds Banking Group.
The Group is is required to comply with the disclosure of the Companies Act to make political currently assessing the impact of this requirements of both listing regimes.
donations and incur political expenditure recent ruling on its defined benefit pension Details of the movements in allotted share up to a maximum aggregate amount of scheme, and will work with its key advisors capital during the year, together with the 100,000.
This authorisation was sought to ensure compliance with the recent rights and obligations attaching to the for prudence as it is the Groups policy not findings as appropriate.
Companys shares, are shown in note 4.1 to to make any political donations to political For further details of events after the the consolidated financial statements.
parties or incur political expenditure within balance sheet, refer to note 5.5 of the the ordinary meaning of those words.
There are no restrictions on voting rights financial statements.
Given the wide definition of donations and of securities in the Company.
The Notice of expenditure within the Companies Act, AGM specifies deadlines for determining activities which form part of the regular attendance and voting entitlements at the operations of the Group such as AGM.
communicating with government at local, Where participants in an employee share national and European level and funding incentive plan operated by the Company events to which politicians are invited, may are the beneficial owners of shares but not be covered.
the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at the discretion of participants.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 % of issued capital Information included in the with rights to vote in all circumstances Strategic report Total number at general 1 of shares meetings The following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in Virgin Group Holdings Limited 188,083,550 13.18% this report and which is incorporated into Perpetual Limited and subsidiaries 60,787,499 4.26% this report by reference can be found on Investors Mutual Limited 53,659,761 3.76% the following pages of the Strategic report.
Cooper Investors Pty Ltd 46,743,994 3.28% Page Schroders PLC 44,572,459 3.12% Subject matter reference Pendal Group Limited 43,383,902 3.04% Future developments 15 1 Percentage correct as at 19 November 2018.
Colleague engagement 26 and 27 Emissions reporting 30 changing economic and market conditions Going concern throughout the planning period.
Equality of employment The Groups Directors have made an In making this assessment, the Directors opportunities assessment of the Groups ability to have considered a wide range of continue as a going concern and are It is the policy of the Group to promote information, including the Directors robust satisfied that the Group has the resources equality of employment opportunities by review and challenge of the outcomes of to continue in business for the foreseeable giving full and fair consideration to the latest Internal Capital Adequacy future.
applications from people with disabilities.
If Assessment Process ICAAP and the The Groups use of the going concern basis existing colleagues become disabled, every Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment for preparation of the accounts is discussed effort is made to retain them within the Process ILAAP, which assess the Groups in note 1.4 of the Groups consolidated workforce wherever reasonable and future projections and stress testing of financial statements.
The Group also endeavours to capital adequacy, liquidity and funding.
The provide equal opportunities in the training, Board has also considered available capital promotion and general career Viability statement and liquidity planning information for the development of disabled persons.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors Information relevant to this assessment can have assessed the prospects of the Group Substantial shareholdings be found in the following sections of the over a three-year period to 30 September Annual Report and Accounts: Information provided to the Company 2021. pursuant to the FCAs DTR is published on The Directors have determined that a a financial summary, including a review Regulatory Information Services and on three-year period is an appropriate period of the latest income statement and the Companys website.
over which to perform the assessment.
This balance sheet is provided in the Financial is the period over which forecasts have a results section pages 34-43: As at 19 November 2018, being the latest greater level of certainty.
The Board practicable date prior to the publication of the Groups capital position is included in monitors a longer-term strategic and this document, the following information the Balance sheet and prudential financial plan which extends beyond the has been received, in accordance with DTR regulation risks section of the Risk three-year period.
This longer-term 5, from holders of notifiable interests in the report pages 144-152: strategic and financial plan provides less Companys issued share capital.
The certainty of outcome, but provides a robust the Groups liquidity position is described information provided below was correct at planning tool against which strategic in the Balance sheet and prudential the date of notification: however, the date decisions can be made.
regulation risks section of the Risk received may not have been within the report pages 152-163: current financial year.
It should be noted The Directors have considered the current that these holdings are likely to have the Groups principal risks and policies state of the balance sheet, principal and changed since the Company was notified.
and processes for managing those risks emerging risks which could impact the However, notification of any change is not are described in the Risk report and performance of the Group and the Groups required until the next notifiable threshold summarised on pages 16 and 17: strategic and financial plan.
and financial plan makes certain the Groups business model and strategy assumptions about the performance of the are described in the Strategic report Group and the economic, market and pages 12-15: and regulatory environments in which it the Groups approach to stress testing operates.
To support the planning process, and reverse stress testing is described in downside scenario analysis has been the Risk report on page 128. performed to consider how the Groups performance would be affected by 118 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors report Based upon this assessment, the Directors Change of control Statement of Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable responsibilities The Group is not party to any significant expectation that the Group will be able to agreements that are subject to change of The Directors are responsible for preparing continue in operation and meet its liabilities control provisions in the event of a the Annual Report and the Group and as they fall due over the three years to takeover bid, other than the following: Company financial statements in 30 September 2021. accordance with applicable law and a Conduct Indemnity Deed with NAB regulations.
Company law requires the under which NAB has agreed, subject to Disclosure of information Directors to prepare financial statements certain limitations, to provide CYBG under Listing Rule LR 9.8.
Under that law, they with a capped indemnity in respect of are required to prepare the Group financial Additional information required to be certain historic liabilities relating to statements in accordance with IFRSs as disclosed by LR9.8.
4R, where applicable to relevant conduct matters.
The capped adopted by the EU and applicable law and the Group, can be found in the following indemnity will not automatically cease to have elected to prepare the parent sections of this report: apply nor will it automatically terminate company financial statements on the same upon any takeover.
However, prior to Subject matter Page reference basis.
Under company law, the Directors any change of control, the parties must Publication of The disclosures within must not approve the financial statements cooperate in good faith to facilitate an unaudited the Risk report pages unless they are satisfied that they give a assessment by the PRA to determine financial 121 to 170 are true and fair view of the state of affairs of whether the capped indemnity should information unaudited unless the Group and Company and of the profit continue at the same amount or otherwise stated.
or loss of the Group and Company for that whether it should be terminated in Allotment of 227 year.
In preparing these financial whole or part.
Any such assessment will equity securities statements the Directors are required to: be at the sole discretion of the PRA: and Significant 243 select suitable accounting policies in a Trade Mark Licence Agreement with contracts accordance with International Virgin Enterprises Limited Virgin under Accounting Standard IAS 8: Accounting which Virgin has granted a licence to Policies, Changes in Accounting Research and development CYBG to use the Virgin and Virgin Estimates and Errors and then apply Money trademarks.
Virgin has the right activities them consistently: to terminate the agreement within 30 The Group does not undertake formal days of a change of control of CYBG present information, including research and development activities unless it is Permitted Change of Control.
accounting policies, in a manner that although it does invest in new platforms A Permitted Change of Control is one provides relevant, reliable, comparable and products in each of its business lines in arising from a an IPO on a recognised and understandable information: the ordinary course of business.
In addition stock exchange or b any other sale of to new products and services the Group provide additional disclosures when shares of CYBG which has been also invests in internally generated compliance with the specific pre-approved by Virgin in writing.
Virgin intangible assets including software and requirements of IFRSs is insufficient to can withhold consent only in the event computer systems.
Further details can be enable users to understand the impact that the third-party purchaser is a direct found in note 3.10 of the Groups of particular transactions, other events competitor of Virgin or another Virgin consolidated financial statements.
and conditions on the financial licensee in the UK, or it is involved in any performance: and activity or possesses a reputation or financial standing which would be likely state that the Group and Company have to materially damage the value or complied with IFRSs, subject to any reputation of the Virgin brand.
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
There is a very small number of senior colleagues who are entitled to an enhanced The Directors are responsible for keeping redundancy payment if redundancy arises adequate accounting records that are within the initial period of employment and sufficient to show and explain the Group is a result of a change of control.
The and Companys transactions and disclose Group has share schemes under which with reasonable accuracy at any time the change of control may apply, albeit this is financial position of the Group and not considered to be significant.
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 and detection of fraud and other Independent auditor and audit irregularities.
information Under applicable law and regulations, the In accordance with section 485 of the Directors are also responsible for preparing Companies Act 2006, a resolution to a Strategic report, Directors report, reappoint Ernst & Young LLP, and to Directors remuneration report and authorise the Audit Committee to agree Corporate governance statement that their remuneration, will be proposed at the comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors who were members of the Responsibility statement of Board at the time of approving the Report the Directors in respect of the of the Directors are listed on page 51 Annual Report and Accounts excluding Debbie Crosbie who stepped down from the Board on 19 November The Directors confirm that to the best of 2018.
Having made enquiries of fellow their knowledge: Directors and of the Groups auditor, each the financial statements, prepared in of these Directors confirms that: accordance with the applicable set of to the best of each Directors accounting standards, give a true and knowledge and belief, there is no fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial information relevant to the preparation position and profit or loss of the of their report of which the Groups Company and the Group and the auditor is unaware: and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected the Strategic report includes a fair to have taken to be aware of relevant review of the development and audit information and to establish that performance of the business and the the Groups auditor is aware of that position of the Company and the Group, information.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that On behalf of the Board: they face.
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Lorna McMillan to assess the Companys and Groups Company Secretary position and performance, business model 26 November 2018 and strategy.
09595911 120 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
