8 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report CYBG acquisition of Virgin Money Creating the first true national competitor to the status quo This will be achieved through: A COMPELLING A LEADING RE TAIL SME ONE ICONIC CUSTOMER FR ANCHISE NATIONAL E XPERIENCE BR AND Strong SME capabilities Delivers full product set 175 years history and heritage.
Full banking product offering for Full product suite and substantive customers post-transaction.
Virgin is one of the most powerful business current account BCA Complementary blend of product and iconic brands in the UK, with capability.
expertise, driving product innovation 99% brand awareness.
Deep sector specialism and proven risk Strengthens omni-channel Use of the Virgin Money brand, management capability.
customer proposition combined with CYBGs customerScale and strength in core regions Single platform customer service centric product range and service 9bn of deposits and 7bn of lending.
model, is expected to lead to c. 15% BCA market share in Scotland National coverage increases and Yorkshire.
higher consumer interest and c. 200k customers 50% for 10 yrs.
advocacy across the UK over time, New partnerships opportunities generating increased customer Well-positioned to become a national Potential to build partnerships with SME competitor other Virgin companies to offer acquisition and greater customer CYBG well-placed to compete for both innovative products to our enlarged retention.
RBS alternative remedies package customer base.
schemes to scale our regional SME Read more online at: franchise nationally.
com investor-centre Underpinned by a leading digital capability c. 6m customers will benefit from iB platform capabilities and customer experience.
Greater scale will allow increased investment in platform, improving user experience.
Developing our SME digital proposition using our iB platform.
E XPEC TE D 2019 R E POR TI N G TI M E LI N E Capital Markets Day Q1 trading update Strategy deep-dive First Combined Group update Announce medium-term strategic Pro forma financial comparatives and financial targets JAN 2019 MAY 2019 JUN 2019 Interim results Combined Group financial results RBS alternative remedies scheme update Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 I NTEG R ATION TI M E LI N E FY2019F Y2020-2021 Integration planning and project begins.
Phased migration of systems and customers.
RBS alternative remedies schemes commence.
Remaining cost synergies to be delivered.
Customer experience and digital development continues.
Strategic growth opportunities to be explored.
FINANCIAL OUTCOMES c. 120m of annual run rate cost synergies FIRST TRUE NATIONAL COMPETITOR Low risk asset portfolio, with diversified funding model TO THE STATUS QUO Strong pro forma Combined Group CET1 ratio of 15.2%, with enhanced capital generation capability Materially earnings accretive, with opportunity for further shareholder value creation Full year results Combined Group financial results AUG 2019 NOV 2019 Q3 Trading Update Combined Group Q3 update 10 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Case study Backing Britains manufacturers and the Northern Powerhouse Britain has long been heralded as a world leader in manufacturing and Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks have a proud history of supporting businesses across the sector for more than a century.
Were committed to fuelling business growth across the North of England in particular, where so many innovative manufacturing SMEs operate.
Besides being a key member of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership, we have a commitment to make 6bn of lending available to the UKs SMEs through to 2019, with 90% of this lending focused outside London.
Through the support we give to our manufacturing customers, our lending commitments and our backing of the Northern Powerhouse, Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks are playing an active role in maintaining the UKs globally renowned strength in the manufacturing sector, boosting the industrial base of Britains regional economies and helping the North to flourish.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Backing Britains manufacturers and the Northern Powerhouse Advanced Engineering Techniques Ltd advanced laser cutting tools which used AET Ltd is an established Sheffieldfar less energy than previous equipment, based manufacturing business which ran three times faster and could run provides parts for a broad range of unmanned overnight.
industries including the rail, construction, road transport, renewable energy and Support continued and in the summer agricultural sectors.
of 2018, Yorkshire Bank provided a 770,000 Asset Finance package to Established in 1989, AET Ltd operates AET Ltd so they could acquire a further from a 65,000 square feet manufacturing Bystronic laser BySprint & ByTrans, as facility on a 2.5 acre site and is one of the well as a larger Panasonic Welding Cell.
largest and fastest growing sub-contract These new tools will allow the company engineering companies in the North to expand its production capacity and of England.
Yorkshire Bank first backed benefit from new market opportunities, the business in 2002, and since then maintain its competitive edge against we have continued to support their rivals overseas and win more contracts, acquisition of state-of-the-art automated all of which will help to retain jobs for laser cutting technology.
In 2015, we the local community and keep the provided 900,000 funding for new North of England moving.
