Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Regulatory, compliance and conduct risk Effectively addressing legacy issues and building a platform for growth Material changes to regulatory policies Exposures The Group continues to and protocols are approved by either There continues to be a great deal of address and eliminate legacy the Executive Leadership Team or the uncertainty and significant judgement is conduct issues while seeking Board.
required in determining the quantum of to ensure that fairness is conduct risk-related liabilities with note The Group CRO and Risk Leadership 3.14 reflecting the Groups current position central to our current and Team consider compliance risk topics in relation to redress provisions for PPI, when setting risk appetite and through future customer propositions interest rate hedging products IRHPs and ongoing risk assessment, profiling and and that we meet regulators other smaller historic conduct matters.
final amount required to settle the Groups expectations.
potential liabilities for these matters is Monitoring materially uncertain.
The Group will Regulatory and compliance A risk management oversight and continue to reassess the adequacy of compliance monitoring plan is approved by risk provisions for these matters and the Boards Risk Committee on an annual basis assumptions underlying the calculations at Regulatory and compliance risk is the risk which independently assesses the control each reporting date based upon experience of: failing to understand and comply with framework underpinning compliance with and other relevant factors at that time.
relevant laws, regulations, licence laws and regulations.
conditions, supervisory requirements, Monitoring self-regulatory industry codes of conduct Conduct risk This is a principal focus of the Board, senior and voluntary initiatives: failing to identify, management and regulators, and the monitor and respond to changes in the Conduct risk is the risk of undertaking Group seeks to ensure customers are regulatory environment: damaging the business in a way which is contrary to the treated fairly and products are designed Groups relationship with its regulators interests of our customers resulting in the and sold to meet their needs.
The Group through non-compliance with delivery of inappropriate customer also works to ensure that customer requirements, not keeping regulators outcomes, customer detriment, regulatory expectations are met and complaints are informed of relevant issues that affect censure, redress costs and or reputational dealt with effectively and fairly.
All Three or which may affect the Group, not damage.
Lines of Defence consider conduct risk as responding effectively to the information part of their oversight and assurance requests and review findings of the Risk appetite activities.
regulators, by providing incorrect or The Group is committed to acting in the inadequate information, not meeting interests of its customers, and has no regulatory deadlines or obstructing the appetite for conduct risk.
regulator from fulfilling its role.
Mitigation measures Risk appetite The Group has a conduct framework which The Group has no appetite for actions recognises the key conduct risks inherent resulting in breaches of regulation or for in the Groups strategy through which it inaction in addressing identified control seeks to apply high standards in the design failures that result in non-compliance.
and sale of products, and the treatment of its customers through continuous Mitigation measures monitoring and responding to customer The Group has a regulatory feedback and complaints.
In addition, if engagement policy designed to ensure things do go wrong, action is taken to an open and cooperative relationship is ensure we put things right for our maintained with regulators at all times, customers.
ensuring that all key interactions with Products are designed and sold to meet regulators are managed, recorded and customer needs and expectations with escalated as appropriate.
governance processes embedded to All colleagues are required to achieve ensure those objectives are met.
mandated standards of compliance Consideration of customer outcomes is learning including the Conduct Rules.
embedded within the Groups operating processes, and metrics are regularly monitored to help ensure outcomes are appropriate.
