168 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Financial crime risk A strengthened and robust financial crime framework All standards are reflected in the Group Anti-bribery and corruption The Group The Group continues to invest policy and standards and financial crime does not tolerate the direct or indirect in its systems and controls to prevention manual, the content of which is offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of prevent, detect, screen and provided by financial crime risk and updated bribes in any form.
The Group has in place as appropriate.
report financial crime, risk assessments, policies and guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers and demonstrating a tangible uplift Monitoring agents, including specific policies for gifts in effectiveness.
The financial crime team is responsible for and hospitality.
Senior managers across the strategy, governance, standard setting, Financial crime risk is the risk that the business are required to complete an oversight, training and reporting to the Groups products and services will be used evaluation of risk areas as part of the risk competent authorities and governance to facilitate financial crime against the assessment process.
Group, its customers or third parties.
It Fraud The Group accepts that, in order to encompasses the risk of failing to conduct business in a commercially viable The control framework is owned by understand and comply with relevant laws, manner, it is willing to sustain fraud losses financial crime risk but management and regulations and supervisory requirements within an agreed set of parameters.
The execution of customer identity and relating to money laundering, terrorism application of fraud risk management verification, customer due diligence, financing, bribery and corruption and considers customer impacts, industry enhanced due diligence, identifying sanctions and embargoes.
trends and financial impacts of fraud which, high-risk customers, including on occasion, provide conflicting priorities.
correspondent banking relationships and It also includes risks associated with Emerging risks are identified and assessed record keeping is the responsibility of first external or internal acts intended to with action taken to mitigate them.
defraud, misappropriate, and circumvent agreed loss plan is set and performance policy, funds, information, regulations and Account opening pass rates are reported against this is overseen by the policy owner property.
The Group maintains an on a monthly basis and overseen as part of and reported through the appropriate overarching financial crime policy and four a regular process undertaken by financial governance committees.
With regard to policy standards aligned to each material crime risk.
internal fraud, the Group recognises the financial crime risk.
These are: risk of internal fraud but has no appetite for Higher-risk customers are referred to Sanctions The Group has no appetite for it.
Consequently there is a control financial crime risk and senior management non-compliance with the legal and framework in place to mitigate that risk.
within Customer Banking for agreement regulatory obligations relating to sanctions and sign off that business is within appetite and embargoes.
To reflect the Groups risk Exposures and then continue to be monitored on an appetite and to protect the Group from There are currently no significant ongoing basis.
financial and reputational damage, including exposures to report.
The Group continues Screening customers for sanctions or regulatory censure, fines and enforcement to review the external environment for any politically exposed persons and transaction action, the Sanctions and Embargoes change in regulatory or legislative direction, monitoring is carried out by financial crime Policy articulates a set of minimum taking action as appropriate.
Sanctions screening for payments is standards and requirements which must be carried out by the Payments team in the complied with.
Critical financial crime systems Risk assessments against the four financial Anti-money laundering The Group applies oversight is independently tested by crime policy standards take place on an a prescribed high-risk customer model Internal Audit.
Over and above these which sets out the types of customer it has assessments, regular oversight of higherno risk appetite to onboard, as well as risk activities takes place as part of the customers with whom the Group is formal oversight plan and embedded prohibited from entering into or activity takes place throughout the year.
All Key performance metrics relative to critical other customers who are not proscribed financial crime systems are kept under shall be subject to controls commensurate review to ensure ongoing effectiveness.
Third party tools are used to test system effectiveness where available and appropriate.
Training completion and compliance is subject to annual oversight.
