DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Objectives For many years we have focussed on the pursuit of the Groups objective of achieving long term, low risk growth in net asset value and rental income, and in prudently growing our dividends.
Net asset value per share Dividends per share p 120 120 110 110 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Strategy The strategy for achieving our objectives has three principal elements: Management of our property portfolio to maximise net rental income and thereby enhance capital values Identification and completion of value enhancing development opportunities within our portfolio Identification and completion of new property acquisitions which have the potential, through development or otherwise, for long term enhancement to net asset value In pursuing this strategy we take the view that property is a long term business which does not always fit conveniently into the annual reporting cycle.
Development opportunities, in particular, can take many years from first idea to first letting and will often involve substantial investment over a period of years before any gain is achieved.
We carefully monitor our exposure to ensure that the impact on our resources remains manageable.
Business model The main activity of the Group, as carried on through its subsidiary companies, is investment in commercial, industrial and residential property in the UK and also on the eastern seaboard of the USA.
The Group generally holds its properties for the long term in order to generate rental income and capital appreciation although in the right circumstances any property could be available for sale.
The Group operates a substantially outsourced business model.
Day-to-day management of the Groups properties in the UK is carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited.
These companies also provide the staff who carry out all of the UK functions of the Group.
Further details of the relationship with these companies are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Similar arrangements with local managing agents operate in the USA.
Managing risk Whilst retaining an entrepreneurial culture, the Group has a low appetite for risk.
This underpins our approach to all aspects of the business and is appropriate to our strategic objective of delivering long term, low risk growth in net asset value per share.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, by reviewing Above and opposite detailed risk reports, including those risks threatening its business model, future performance, page top: 77 North Washington, Boston, solvency and liquidity.
In relation to financial instrument risk, the Group operates a cautious financial policy on a nonOpposite page bottom: speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence 11 East Chase Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through Page 4 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden or unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
As explained in Note 1 g to the financial statements, the Group does not hedge account.
Note 16 to the financial statements details the Groups exposure to the various financial instrument risks.
Managing risk has been central to the success of the Group over many years and in particular gearing has been kept at a relatively low level for the property industry: currently gearing is 13.8% 2017 14.6%.
The Board recognises that, in common with all companies, it can only have limited control over many of the external risks which it faces.
The largest of such uncontrollable factors is the economic cycle which has a major impact on the demand for and price of property and the ability of the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
The principal risks facing the Group are described in the following paragraphs together with the steps which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
External risks Economic outlook The UK is facing a period of slowing economic growth and unprecedented political uncertainty.
Special mention must also be made of the additional level of uncertainty for business driven by the ongoing Brexit negotiation process.
Until some clarity emerges as to the nature of the UKs on-going relationship with the EU it will be difficult for businesses to plan for the future.
Such circumstances increase the risk of downward pressure on rental and capital values and an increase in vacancy rates and bad debts.
The USA continues to experience economic growth and sustained demand for commercial space and residential accommodation.
This is the background which provides the risks and opportunities for our residential tenants and for the businesses of our commercial tenants and their demand for space.
We seek to mitigate and manage such risk by: Continuous monitoring of the economic outlook Right: 2160 Wallace, The Bronx, New York.
Far right: 200 Portland Street, Boston, Massachusetts.
Above and opposite page bottom: The St Paul Court, 3120 St Paul Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
Opposite page top left: 1010 St Paul Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
Opposite page top right: 2180 Wallace, The Bronx, New York.
Page 6 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Continued maintenance of low gearing Rigorous tenant covenant checks including independent assessments for major lettings.
In the case of smaller properties we undertake such checking as is appropriate Enhanced rent collection effort to minimise the possibility of bad debts Availability of finance on acceptable terms In order to undertake significant acquisitions or projects of development and value enhancement within our portfolio, the Group relies in part on funding from the UK and USA property finance market.
At present our experience shows that suitable finance can be obtained on acceptable terms.
Nevertheless any reduction in the availability of finance for property at an acceptable cost and for an appropriate period would adversely affect the Groups ability to undertake acquisitions and major schemes of redevelopment and refurbishment.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Monitoring funding trends and the development of banking regulations Sustaining relationships with our principal financing partners, both banks and other lending institutions Securing term finance facilities to meet our foreseeable requirements Ensuring that the maturities of major loan arrangements are spread over a period of years Movements in currency rates of exchange With 25% by value of the Groups property portfolio located in the USA, any significant movement in the US dollar sterling rate of exchange will impact our reported results.
The period since the decision to leave the EU has seen significant movement in the US dollar sterling rate of exchange.
The rise in the value of sterling relative to the US dollar in the financial year was Properties in Manhattan, New York.
Page 8 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 12% 2017 13% fall.
This has had the effect of reducing the reported value of our USA net assets.
However, the average exchange rate for the year was not significantly different from the previous period and its impact on reported USA profits is therefore not material.
We mitigate and manage this risk by: Funding US assets by US dollar borrowings and local retained earnings.
This means that the impact of movements in the exchange rate is limited to accounting adjustments in the Groups consolidated accounts.
An accounting loss of 29.8 million 2017 gain of 29.1 million arises in reserves mainly on the re-translation of the opening net book value of assets in the USA Incurring all costs used to generate US dollar rental income in US dollars Regulation Regulations aimed at the control of residential rental levels or shorthold tenancy arrangements could have an adverse impact on the Group.
Similarly, increased regulation on building standards environmental, health and safety or planning matters could impose additional costs.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Careful monitoring of developments in legislation with the help of our professional advisers Catastrophic events The operations of the Group could be adversely affected by a significant catastrophe such as extreme weather, fire, cyber-attack, civil disturbance or terrorism which could result in the loss of any of our principal buildings or offices and the records stored in them.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Insuring buildings with third parties Physical building security Properties in Manhattan, New York.
Far Left: The Franconia, 20 West 72nd Street.
Page 9 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Fireproof storage of leases and other documents of title Dispersal of business critical IT systems and enhanced data security measures Tenant default Tenant default constitutes a risk to income and, ultimately, to capital value.
The multi-tenanted nature of the portfolio, with rental income derived from numerous properties, provides a natural measure of protection against the risk of individual default.
In recent times we have seen the contraction or collapse of several high profile retail chains.
The pressures facing UK high street outlets are likely to continue.
However, our portfolio is not significantly exposed to the risk of any single retail tenant.
In addition, we seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Seeking tenants with strong covenants Credit checks on new tenants including independent assessments for major lettings Careful monitoring of tenants showing signs of financial stress Actively using recovery mechanisms for overdue debts Internal risks Regional concentration in UK portfolio Within the UK the majority of our properties are situated in and around the London area.
In recent years the increase in value of our UK portfolio has been almost entirely derived from the London area which has enjoyed a period of well publicised growth.
A slowdown in the London market such as has occurred over the last year will significantly reduce the net annual revaluation uplifts in the UK portfolio.
Changes in aggregate property value have a direct impact on the net worth of the Group.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Continuing to invest in the USA Regular monitoring of the property market for opportunities, not just in London but throughout the UK Regular professional revaluations by our independent surveyors in the UK and USA Above, left and opposite page top: Park Street, Taunton, Somerset.
Opposite page bottom: newly completed development at Thorncliffe Court, Clapham, London SW4.
Page 11 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Acquisitions The Group seeks well priced acquisitions which will meet the strategic objective of adding long term, low risk growth in net asset value.
The Groups oft stated aversion to undue risk means that in a period of economic and political uncertainty, opportunities for acquisition will be approached with extreme caution.
There is nevertheless a risk that an inappropriate or ill-judged acquisition could destroy value.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Rigorous pre-acquisition screening of all buying opportunities and appropriate due diligence Development The Group continues to seek development opportunities, principally from within the portfolio but also elsewhere.
Development provides an opportunity to enhance income and net asset values but carries risk as to planning, construction timing, costs and letting.
We seek to mitigate and manage these risks by: Properties in Finchley Road, London NW11.
Rigorous screening of all development opportunities including external professional advice Above: Dudley Court.
and, where appropriate, market research Opposite page top Seeking fixed price contracts with building contractors left: Dudley Court, top right: Montrose Court, Focusing on a limited number of developments at any one time bottom: Clarendon Close monitoring, together with our external advisers, of active developments Court.
People The Group relies heavily on the involvement of key executive directors in both strategic and day-today affairs.
Loss of this involvement would be disruptive to business.
Right: progress on the Travelodge Hotel, Aldgate, London E1.
Page 12 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Analysis by property type Property UK Property USA Residential Residential Commercial 505.3m Commercial 776.2m 1,023.1m 87.1m Travelodge Hotel, Aldgate, London E1.
Background: in progress June 2018, above: artists impression of the finished project.
Commercial Property UK Commercial Property USA Industrial Land & Retail 39.3m Development 3.3m Offices 60.7m Offices 83.8m 361.7m Leisure & Services 142.8m Retail 418.6m Analysis by location UK Valuations USA Valuations North & Wales & Scotland Pennsylvania Greater West 49.1m Baltimore 44.3m London 58.6m New York 25.5m 1,450.8m Midlands & 297.8m East Anglia New Jersey 90.6m 41.3m South East 150.2m Boston 80.8m Florida 102.7m Page 14 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 We have sought to mitigate and manage this risk by: The appointment of new directors from the next generation of the Freshwater family The appointment of independent non-executive directors The establishment of a strong Group management team to support the executive directors Investment properties A professional valuation of all of the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2018.
The UK properties were valued by Colliers International Property Advisers UK LLP, Chartered Surveyors.
In the USA, properties were valued by Joseph J. Blake and Associates, Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services, Inc. both of which are Certified General Real Estate Appraisers.
The table below shows a summary of the valuation of our investment property at 31 March 2018: Valuation Percentage March 2018 change m in year Commercial property UK 1,023.1 7.6% USA 87.1 3.0% Residential property UK 776.2 8.2% USA 505.3 -2.4% Total 2,391.7 5.3% Whilst the percentage changes shown above, in the main, are attributable to net surpluses arising on revaluation, they also include movements resulting from purchases, capital expenditure, disposals and changes in currency rates of exchange.
This is shown in the analysis below: 2018 2017 m m Opening valuation 2,256.8 2,009.4 New acquisitions 1.1 0.5 Additions to existing properties 39.6 29.7 Disposals 4.1 1.2 2,293.4 2,038.4 Revaluation gain 146.4 144.5 Foreign exchange loss gain 66.6 73.9 Closing valuation 2,373.2 2,256.8 In this table and in the financial statements, the total valuation of 2,391.7 million 2017 2,271.1 million has been reduced by an amount of 18.6 million 2017 14.3 million relating to lease incentives, as required by accounting standards see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
This year the 48.9 million valuation uplift on USA properties is more than offset by the foreign exchange loss of 66.6 million arising on translation.
Percentages calculated as The market sentiment at the start of the year was that in the UK we were at, or about at, the peak of net valuation gains on the property cycle.
Whilst modest general valuation gains might continue, significant uplifts would be investment properties divided by prior year dependent upon the completion of successful developments, rent reviews and lettings.
This has investment property value proved to be the case with our three principal projects, the Travelodge Hotel, Central Park in Brighton Note 2 which for the USA and Balham High Road, adding in aggregate some 50 million to the overall 5.9% valuation increase in is adjusted by the foreign the UK property portfolio.
We have also seen a significant increase in the value of the development exchange movement site adjacent to the hotel development in Aldgate, on the eastern fringe of the City of London.
Page 15 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The reduction of foreign investment interest has had a depressive effect on some commercial and residential values in central London.
Residential values in outer London were largely flat.
The UK outside the M25 showed modest gains with some residential hot spots doing well.
Shortage of supply of commercial, industrial and warehousing property generated some positive movement.
Well let and located commercial properties continued to attract favourable yields.
In the USA, pressure from investors saw yields compressed with a positive effect on valuations: this together with the refurbishment and reletting of our Portland Street, Boston office property generated an overall uplift in US dollar terms of 9.2% in our USA portfolio.
Acquisitions and Developments In the UK our development efforts have been concentrated in the following areas: Hotel Development The project to develop a 395 bedroom hotel for Travelodge on our site in Aldgate on the eastern fringe of the City of London, at a cost of some 31 million, is now complete and was handed over in July 2018.
Central Park The conversion of the office block Prestamex House, Brighton into 63 flats is nearing completion and marketing of a show flat has commenced.
Balham High Road This project has successfully reconfigured an existing building, added a new floor to create a total of nine new flats and a new retail unit which has been let to the Co-op.
During the coming year, work will continue on the flat development programme mentioned in last years report which will cumulatively over several years add some 250 new residential units to our portfolio.
Preliminary work continued throughout the year on the planning of our Oxford Street site.
This is a large and complex project and it is currently hoped that planning consent will be obtained next year.
Above and left: Glenloch Court, London NW3.
Opposite page: Oslo Court, London NW8.
Page 17 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued In the USA the largest project was improvement work to our office block in Portland Street, Boston costing $6 million.
The work was undertaken with input from WeWork, the serviced office space provider, who have taken a 15 year lease on four floors.
There have been no significant new property acquisitions in the year.
Results for the year The profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2018 amounts to 201.3 million 2017 198.4 million.
The result includes a net valuation gain of 146.4 million arising on investment properties 2017 144.5 million.
The table below shows the performance of our core rental business before and after valuation movements: 2018 2017 m m Total rental and related income from investment property 142.9 140.7 Property operating expenses 76.4 75.9 Net rental and related income from investment property 66.5 64.8 Profit on disposals of investment property 11.9 14.6 Administrative expenses 13.3 12.6 Net operating profit before net valuation gains 65.1 66.8 Net valuation gains on investment property 146.4 144.5 Net financing expense 10.2 12.9 Profit before taxation 201.3 198.4 Overall we have seen an increase of 5.8 million in rental income, equivalent to 4.6% 2017 6.6%.
In the UK the increase was 5.5% reflecting a reduction in the number of vacant residential units, a full years rental for new commercial lettings made last year as well as new commercial lettings in the current year.
In the USA we achieved rental growth across the portfolio with our Boston properties performing particularly well.
Service charge income is driven by the major works programmes undertaken in the period.
This year, unusually, there were fewer ongoing major works and this is reflected in the reduced level of service charge income, which fell 3.7 million to 11.6 million.
Property expenses have remained at the level of the previous year.
The reduction in expenditure on major works programmes has been offset by increased refurbishment expenditure on previously vacant units to enable reletting.
In the USA our letting commission costs increased due to several new and negotiated commercial lettings.
Once again the profit on disposal derives almost entirely from the sale of lease extensions in the UK.
On certain buildings where we own the freehold, long leasehold interests on some flats were previously sold.
When the long leaseholders extend the length of their lease they pay us a premium Progress on Central and the Group has no control over when these extensions may occur.
Park, Brighton, East The net finance costs have reduced this year principally as a result of the fair value gain of Sussex formerly 1.9 million 2017 0.1 million arising on the revaluation of our financial instruments.
Opposite In the USA our applicable tax rate has been reduced from 40% to 28%.
The change in tax rate has page top left: May resulted in a release from the provision for deferred taxation of 39.9 million.
Above, opposite and deferred tax charges this produces an overall credit for the year of 1.7 million 2017 page top right and 36.3 million charge.
Page 19 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Earnings per share This year earnings per share stands at 12.45 2017 9.93 an increase of 25.4%.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This increase in earnings per share is primarily attributable to the release of deferred tax provisions following changes in USA tax legislation.
Underlying profit before tax The profit reported in the financial statements has for some years included property revaluation movements and fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
In addition to this measure of performance we also focus on underlying profits before tax which do not include these valuation items.
Underlying profit before tax for the last two years are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax per the income statement 201.3 198.4 Property valuation surplus 146.4 144.5 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 1.9 0.1 Adjustment to measurement of disposal profits Note 9 1.9 1.0 Underlying profit before tax 54.9 54.8 This years underlying profit before tax of 54.9 million is at a similar level to the previous year.
Underlying profit before tax represents that element of our reported results which has actually been realised and is not dependent on valuation judgements.
It represents the performance of our core rental business together with disposal profits which tend to fluctuate from year to year.
It is our underlying profit before tax which generates the cash we use to re-invest in the business and to pay dividends and taxes.
Gearing Gearing, the ratio between our loans and borrowings and the value of our total assets, is 13.8% 2017 14.6% for the Group as a whole.
In the UK the ratio is 6.7% 2017 6.5% whilst in the USA, where each property is financed separately on a ring-fenced basis, it is 33.3% 2017 35.8%.
Above and opposite As the majority of our loans and borrowings are secured on our investment property assets, our page: Africa House, gearing ratio is useful as it indicates our capacity to borrow further to invest in our business and also Kingsway, London WC2.
shows the level of headroom we have in case of adverse property valuation movements.
Page 20 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Shareholders funds At 31 March 2018 shareholders funds amounted to 1,812.9 million, an increase of 9.5% on last years figure of 1,655.7 million.
Shareholders funds have grown in recent years as follows: 2,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Shareholders funds per share is calculated by dividing total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average shares in issue during the year.
We believe this is a useful measure as it reflects the fair value of the investment property we hold.
For this reason it is a common measure used in the property industry.
Dividend The proposed total dividend for the year of 103p per share represents an increase of 5.1% 2017 98p.
Outlook Below: Barons Court, The Chairmans Introduction on page 2 describes the economic and political factors which will Kingsbury, London NW9.
affect the Group in the coming year.
We are in a period when the UK market generally is flat and Page 22 million DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 This page and opposite page top: recently completed development at 163 Abbey Foregate, Shrewsbury, Shropshire.
Page 23 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued likely to produce only modest valuation gains at best.
We will therefore continue our focus on the enhancement of our rent roll in order to increase income and capital growth.
It is the nature of programmes of development and enhancement that they tend to span more than one accounting period and may take some time to bring to fruition: we are comfortable taking a long term, low risk approach to growing net asset value.
In the immediate future we are unlikely to experience the rate of growth in net asset values that we have enjoyed in recent years.
Preparatory and planning work will continue on the block of properties which we have assembled at the eastern end of Oxford Street WC1.
This is a large and complex project and construction work is unlikely to commence until 2020.
In addition the flat development programme will continue with the aim, over a number of years, of adding a total of 250 units to our portfolio.
The exact timing and speed with which we pursue these opportunities will be influenced by general economic and market conditions.
In the USA we continue to seek acquisition opportunities and, whenever possible, to refinance existing properties at more advantageous rates.
There is strong competition for worthwhile opportunities but we stick to our rigorous selection criteria and are prepared to wait for the right transaction.
Employees The day-to-day activities are outsourced to management companies which are responsible for the Above and below: provision of the services of the staff on which we rely to run the business.
As part of the Barclays House, Crawley, Sussex.
arrangements with the management companies in the UK, those individuals engaged on the Groups Page 24 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 affairs hold joint employment contracts but the management companies retain sole responsibility for setting recruitment, employment, training, health and safety, diversity and human rights policies for their staff.
Whilst the Group supports and encourages good practice in all of these areas, detailed responsibility for the establishment and execution of such policies lies with the management companies.
As a result, this report does not contain the kind of information mentioned in the Companies Act 2006 s414C 7 b ii and iii.
So far as health and safety is concerned, the Board recognises the importance of ensuring that our properties provide a safe and healthy environment for all users.
With this in mind the Board has requested that the management companies ensure that: All their employees receive appropriate training in the identification and management of health and saf ety risks.
Every employee is required to be familiar with health and safety policies and has responsibility for ensuring that they are followed in their area of work Regular cyclical risk assessments are undertaken by external consultants on all properties for which the Group has responsibility.
A dedicated team is tasked with resolving issues raised by such assessments and with monitoring policy compliance To ensure that an awareness of the importance of this issue continues at the highest level within the Group, health and safety reviews are periodically presented at Board level.
Above and below: All Directors of the Company are male and no new recruitment to the Board is planned which would Talgarth Mansions, cause this to change in the near future.
Page 25 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Community The Group has long recognised the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate.
Many companies encourage and facilitate their employees to donate their time and efforts to community projects: because our staffing is outsourced this route is not available to us.
Our support therefore takes the following forms: Donations, largely to educational charities, which this year amounted to 196,000 2017 151,000 Dividends on donated shares following the donation some years ago to charities of shares representing 6.3% of the capital of the Company with dividend payments in the year of 1,001,386 2017 960,659 being passed to charitable companies Environment As mentioned above, all the staff engaged in the business and who control our buildings are provided by management companies.
We do not have responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions related to the employment of those people.
The greenhouse gas emissions arising from our let properties are the responsibility of our tenants.
In consequence, we have no disclosures to make in relation to greenhouse gas emissions and therefore this report does not contain information of the kind mentioned in Part 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The scope for enhancing the environmental standards across the majority of our properties is limited.
In the main they were constructed before the advent of modern standards and it would be neither practically nor economically feasible to undertake a complete upgrade to meet modern requirements.
However, we do take the opportunities which arise each year as part of programmes of repair and refurbishment to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and the plant therein.
When we undertake new developments or major schemes of refurbishment we strive to achieve the highest environmental and sustainability standards consistent with the nature of the building and the scheme being undertaken.
So, for example, as previously reported the hotel which we are developing for Travelodge has been designed to achieve a BREEAM excellent rating.
The environmental features include combined heat and power for energy efficiency, management of surface water run-off, energy efficient lighting, and the use of recycled aggregates and sustainably sourced construction materials.
Above and opposite page: Grove Hall Court, London NW8.
Right: New College Court, London NW3.
Far Right: Vincent Court, London NW4.
Page 26 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors appointed a team led by senior management to assist the Board in undertaking a viability assessment.
A thorough review has been undertaken of the Groups current financial, strategic and operational position, the Boards future plans for the business and the principal risks faced by the Group, described on pages 6 to 15 of the Strategic Report.
The Directors consider that five years remains an appropriate time horizon for assessing the longerterm viability of the business and this is consistent with the period which has been used for strategic planning.
The Group has a low risk, balanced portfolio of properties, with many commercial properties occupied by tenants with long leases.
Based on current trends, the Directors continue to believe that the Group will be able to grant short term leases on residential properties and new leases on commercial properties at comparable rents for at least five more years.
The Group utilises external funding and has available and committed facilities which are spread over a period of years.
Most bank finance is available for an initial term of five years and 82.9% of the Groups current facilities mature during or beyond March 2022.
Discussions regarding the renewal or replacement of facilities occur in advance of their maturity.
Assessment of the Groups viability over the next five years included stress testing key business metrics with what is considered the plausible worst-case potential impact of the principal risks.
Whilst carrying out this assessment, the strength and effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate risks were considered.
In determining what should be regarded as the plausible worst-case impact, the Board and senior management team have considered in detail and sought advice on the potential impact to UK property prices, demand for UK property and the associated impact on rents and yields, and the willingness of financial institutions to lend to UK property companies.
Particular attention was given to the potential impact of an unfavourable Brexit agreement and the possible consequences of the current political climate within the UK and the USA.
Headroom on loan covenants have been stresstested, the maturities of loan agreements reviewed and a five-year cash flow forecast produced.
The Directors confirm that, based on the analysis, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group can continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period of their assessment.
By order of the Board M R M Jenner Company Secretary 20 July 2018 Above and right: Jeffries Passage, Guildford, Surrey.
Opposite page: 11 East Chase Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
