Our Products Our products can be divided into four categories: Companion Animal Products CAP, Food producing Animal Products FAP, Equine, and Nutrition.
All are targeted at providing veterinary professionals with solutions for their customers needs: to match current best practice prescribing habits: additionally, CAP our recent move into poultry vaccines should provide growth This is the basis upon which Dechra established its market opportunities in future years as we seek global registrations.
position and continues to be our strongest sector, representing Equine 65.5% of revenue.
The majority of products in our portfolio are Prescription Only Medicines POMs : prescribed, administered This is a sector in which few animal health companies specialise and dispensed by veterinarians working in companion animal due to the relatively small number of horses in the world and practices.
We also have a range of associated non-prescription the fact that in the majority of European countries the horse is products that complement the licensed pharmaceuticals, such classed as a food producing species which adds complexity as ear cleaners, dermatologically active shampoos and other to the licensing process.
Equine veterinarians are specialised topical and nutritional supplements.
in the species and operate out of either mixed practices or, increasingly, specialist equine centres.
Key therapeutic sectors: Endocrinology, dermatology, analgesia and anaesthesia, Key therapeutic sectors: cardiovascular and critical care.
Species: Species: Dogs and cats.
Market dynamics: Market dynamics: The principal driver of growth in companion animal markets is The horse is classed as a minor species as there are relatively the pet owners compassion for their animals.
The market has few, even in major countries such as the USA where current historically been orientated around developed countries such as estimates are only seven million and the UK at approximately Western Europe, North America, Australia and Japan.
Although there is a big overlap, the market can be with increasing wealth in several developing regions, the divided roughly into high performance sports horses and leisure companion animal market is now also emerging.
The market is variable and can be linked to on companion animals continues to grow due to increasing the economy: however, high value sports horses will be treated pet ownership, advances in nutrition, increased competence at almost any cost.
Dechra has developed a strong position in in managing complex conditions by veterinarians, preventative lameness and pain management with unique products that have healthcare and wellness and by increasing availability of superior efficacy compared to historic treatments.
Dechra has developed a strong position in providing specialist and clinically necessary Nutrition novel products.
We also supply a range of products which Our range of pet foods is predominantly focused on high quality complement these products in key therapeutic sectors where nutrition to support therapeutic conditions in dogs and cats we are seen as the company of choice by many veterinarians.
such as allergies, obesity, heart and kidney disease.
They are sold through veterinary practices under the recommendation of FAP either veterinarians or veterinary nurses and are recommended Dechra entered the FAP sector through the acquisition of to support therapeutic recovery following diagnosis by a Eurovet in 2012: it currently represents 12.0% of revenue.
However, as over 60% of all global animal health sales are FAP, Dechra is underweight relative to the market and our Key therapeutic sectors: competitors and it is an increasing area of focus.
Our products Our pet diets are available to support the well being of animals are entirely POMs that are prescribed by veterinarians who work with numerous therapeutic conditions.
The ability to offer our in either specialist veterinary practices or professional farming wide range of products, branded Specific, is necessary to units.
remain competitive in this sector.
Species: Key therapeutic sectors: Dogs and cats.
Water soluble antibiotics, poultry vaccines, locomotion lameness and pain management.
Market dynamics: The global pet food market is huge and dwarfs the animal health Species: pharmaceuticals market.
The veterinary recommendation is Poultry, pigs and an increasing presence in cattle.
respected by pet owners which allows them to take a small Market dynamics: but significant part of this nutrition market.
Dechras focus is The key driver for growth in this sector is a huge increase in predominantly therapeutic diets which are not available for the global demand for high quality animal protein and dairy self-selection through supermarkets and require advice from products.
Vaccines are the biggest growth sector of the the veterinarian.
There are very few competitors in this specialist veterinary market and are anticipated to continue to outgrow sector of the pet food market and although we compete with therapeutic treatments.
The majority of our sales are currently huge global multinational companies, we are able to differentiate antibiotics which are sold mainly into Western Europe.
Western our position through the use of higher quality ingredients and Europe has been extremely proactive over the last five years through innovation.
in reducing antibiotic use due to concerns over antimicrobial resistance and super bugs.
Dechras portfolio is positioned Stock Code: DPH 11
