Product Development Although some products may have a slightly different path, most novel In this phase proof of concept level data for pharmaceutical and generic products follow a fairly standard process containing six development formulation and manufacturing process, efficacy and phases, defined as: Evaluation, Feasibility, Research, Development, safety is created and a regulatory pathway is identified.
The purpose of Registration and Launch.
this phase is to eliminate projects with low probability of success as early as possible.
Dechra employs a structured process in its development pipeline while retaining an opportunistic and entrepreneurial approach.
Focus is given All the necessary pilot data is generated in the Research phase to: to the Groups therapeutic sectors.
New development opportunities and understand the efficacy and safety profile innovation or the likelihood in-license opportunities are evaluated for strategic fit within these sectors: of establishing bioequivalence generics : therapies outside of the key areas are considered for inclusion in the pipeline ensure high quality pharmaceutical development: and if they are novel and address medical needs in the veterinary market.
establish the best strategy to maximise the probability of technical A products return on investment can vary: novel developments tend to and regulatory success.
have a medium to long term realisation with attractive high value returns: generic developments generally have shorter time scales with returns The main purpose of the Research phase is to fide-risk the expensive, dependent upon the number of other entrants and speed to market long and resource intensive Development phase.
In addition, during relative to the competition.
the Research phase the formulation and manufacturing process are finalised, and the dose that is both safe and effective is determined.
For In addition to developing new products, Dechra also is looking some projects, this phase can be relatively straight forward, while for continuously to improve existing commercial products to retain and grow others it can be iterative, for example finding a formulation that gives the market share.
Lifecycle activities are varied but may include changing desired safety and efficacy profile.
primary packaging or dose form for improving convenience for the user or adding claims or species to widen the addressable market.
These Entering the Development Phase activities are generally called lifecycle management and can lead to The Development phase is the longest part of the process, potentially substantial growth, even for established products.
After the formulation has been demonstrated to be stable, up to three registration batches are manufactured for Dechras current development pipeline is a mixture of short, medium and use in safety studies, efficacy studies and stability testing.
For generic long term new opportunities and lifecycle projects.
products, the batches are used in one or more bioequivalence studies to Generating and Prioritising Ideas demonstrate that activity will replicate the pioneer product.
If the studies Ideas are usually generated by Marketing and Business Development, but conducted during the Development phase demonstrate the required Dechra encourages all employees to share ideas for new or existing products.
safety, efficacy and chemical stability of the product, regulatory dossiers Ideas will be prioritised by Marketing and the most attractive ones will be are prepared for Registration Filing.
evaluated by a small cross functional Evaluation team.
During the Evaluation The whole process from beginning to end can take between three and ten phase, the team defines the scope of the project and assesses if the cost years before Launch depending on complexity and nature of the product.
benefit ratio is favourable considering market need, market value, therapeutic indications, strategic fit and the probability of technical and regulatory Stage Gate Process success.
The team also define the work required in the Feasibility phase.
The Pipeline Review Committee analyses each project after each phase for any technical or regulatory risks and issues and any changes in the Making the Chemistry Work business case.
Projects are prioritised based on their overall commercial The second phase of the process is Feasibility, which involves the and strategic value.
collection of a range of preliminary data to identify early stop points.
SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM SET RECOMMENDATIONS APPROVAL Project decisions driven by resources, PIPELINE REVIEW COMMITTEE Stakeholders from all relevant departments expertise and Dechra Strategy GO GO GO GO GO NO GO NO GO NO GO NO GO NO GO EVALUATION FEASIBILITY RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT REGISTRATION LAUNCH PROOF OF PILOT STUDIES PRELIMINARY CONCEPT PIVOTAL TO fide-RISK DOSSIER LAUNCH EVALUATION OF TO IDENTIFY DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION CAMPAIGN IDEAS EARLY KILL PROGRAMME PROGRAMME POINTS OUTPUT: OUTPUT: OUTPUT: OUTPUT: OUTPUT: OUTPUT: Initial Feasibility Research Pivotal Data Responses to Launch Campaign Target Report and Report and Dossier Authorities and Profile and Research Plan Development Launch Plan Feasibility Plan Plan 38 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com IDEA FUNNEL Prioritise Ideas PRIORITISED Product Pipeline A key strategic priority for the Group is the delivery and strength of the pipeline.
The following chart outlines the status of the major projects.
Owing to the nature of product development, the content of our pipeline will change over time as new projects progress from Evaluation to market or as projects are terminated.
For competitive reasons, exact project details are not disclosed.
Evaluation Feasibility Research Development Registration CAP Equine FAP CAP Equine FAP CAP Equine FAP CAP Equine FAP CAP Equine FAP Analgesic Antibiotic Paraciticide Antibiotic for Paraciticide Antibiotic for Antibiotic for Fluid therapy therapy for cattle for cats pigs for dogs cattle dogs and cats for cattle for cats and pigs AntiAntibiotic Dermatological Paraciticide Paraciticide Endocrine Poultry Poultry inflammatory for pigs and therapy for for dogs for poultry diagnostic vaccines vaccines for horses poultry dogs Gastrointestinal AntiDermatological Dermatological Antibiotic for Poultry Antibiotic for therapy for inflammatory therapy for therapy for pigs vaccines dogs and cats dogs for Poultry dogs dogs Analgesic Antibiotic for Lameness Antibiotic for Analgesic Swine therapy for cattle, pigs therapy for cattle, dogs, therapy for vaccines dogs and poultry horses cats, horses dogs New opportunities are Analgesic constantly being evaluated Dermatological Lameness Poultry antitherapy for therapy for and will move into vaccines inflammatory dogs horses Feasibility quickly if of for horses interest Dermatological Lameness Poultry Antibiotic for therapy for therapy for vaccines dogs and cats dogs horses Endocrine Analgesic Anaesthetic therapy for therapy for for dogs and horses cats horses Endocrine Endocrine Gastrointestinal therapy therapy for therapy for for cats dogs dogs and cats Ocular antiCardiovascular Anaesthetic inflammatory therapy for horses for dogs for cats Gastrointestinal Gastrointestinal Anaesthetic therapy for therapy for dogs and dogs for dogs cats AntiGastrointestinal Anaesthetic inflammatory therapy for horses for horses for dogs Dermatological Dermatological Antibiotic therapy therapy for horses for dogs for dogs Key Gastrointestinal Antibiotic Antibiotic for therapy for for rabbits dogs and cats dogs Analgesic, Anaesthesia, Anti-inflammatory AntiAntimicrobial Antibiotic inflammatory for dogs for dogs and Antiparasitic cats Cardiology Gastrointestinal therapy Dermatology for dogs Endocrinology Urological Fluid therapy therapy for dogs Gastrointestinal Vaccines AntiLocomotion inflammatory for horses Urology Stock Code: DPH 39
