Strategy in Action: Pipeline Delivery Vaccines As part of Dechras strategy in the Food four were added to our development programme producing Animal Product FAP market, we to ensure that our live poultry range meets the entered the fast growing vaccines segment needs of veterinarians and farmers across all of in October 2015 by acquiring the Croatian these markets.
company, Genera d. d. It marketed a range of The development team in Zagreb has worked essential live poultry vaccines to the regional extremely hard and has successfully delivered Adriatic countries and to a number of developing products and registrations to the planned international markets thereby providing Dechra timelines.
In 2016 the first European marketing with a solid basis to enter the vaccine sector.
authorisation was received for Avishield ND, Since the acquisition we have continued to build used for the prevention of Newcastle disease in on this foundation, focusing on development and chickens and turkeys.
Despite only having one approval of this range in key European markets product, we quickly discovered that veterinarians and subsequently expanding into additional became enthusiastic about this new vaccine.
With the growing worldwide Through clinical studies we had demonstrated emphasis on preventing diseases and reducing that our product was more effective and safer the use of antibiotics, we believe that this step is to use than the established products from our key to the future of Dechras FAP business.
We therefore proceeded to launch in When we acquired Genera the core range of live Germany and Belgium, where we quickly gained poultry vaccines consisted of six products.
At that high market shares despite not being able to offer time none of these had been approved for sale in a complete range.
To date, we have succeeded the main European poultry production markets of in obtaining authorisation in all key European the UK, Germany, France, Spain and Italy.
Having markets for an additional three vaccines for the spent time with the team in Croatia, evaluating the prevention of infectious bronchitis, infectious capabilities and production potential, we decided bursal disease and an additional strain of to focus on ensuring that the six key products Newcastle disease.
Using the slogan Protection gained approval in these key European markets.
Evolved we are now preparing to launch the complete range across Europe, and continue to Utilising the basis of the EU marketing develop our position in the international markets.
registration, we were then able to gain marketing authorisations in the main poultry production countries in North Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
In addition to the first six products, a further FROM DAY ONE.
30 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Stock Code: DPH 31 Strategy in Action: a c b Portfolio Focus Ceptatiis nissi illuptae volorion rehenducil ipsunt.
Enhancing our Specific Portfolio One of Dechras key therapy areas is its range Packaging of veterinarian dedicated dog and cat foods.
In order to strengthen our sustainability position This range offers targeted special care diets that and as part of our environmental road map we provide the optimum in nutritional support for pets have rationalised our pack sizes which will: with illnesses and diets for everyday nutritional reduce our use of plastics by 8%: needs.
Branded Specific, we have marketed the range since January 2008 when we acquired reduce our freight on the cat product range by VetXX Holdings A S. 35%: and reduce our carbon footprint by 50,000 kg CO We have implemented a programme of revitalising 2 equivalent.
the Specific range: the initial focus being on refreshing the cat range with improved recipe, Included with the sustainability benefits are some design and packaging.
The diets support some of great innovations for the pet owner, such as: our key pharmaceutical products with a look and a new easy open pack utilising a laser scored feel that belongs to the Dechra family of products tear line: providing a useful cross over to our other key therapy areas.
a new reclose system employing Sensi Grip seals: and Recipe Development improved barrier film that exploits up to the The refreshed look involves a development in the minute developments in packaging technology.
recipes that introduce: Next Phase natural antioxidants: Once the cat refresh is fully launched we will chelated minerals for better bioavailability: and commence a programme to update the dog further improvements to the palatability.
There have been further ingredient advances that The Future reflect our ongoing investment in utilising up to We will continue to emphasise the importance of date nutritional knowledge that will support good feeding pets with diets with nutritional advantages pet health.
We have included Marine Stewardship over other pet foods and continue the exciting Council MSC certified fish within these updates, developments with additional category leading to strengthen our commitment to a sustainable recipe innovations and packaging design.
We are also revitalising the product pipeline Design creating closer links to our pharmaceutical The historic design of the Specific packaging had heritage.
We will continue to innovate to improve been in existence since 2005: a newly updated the growth and contribution from this key therapy design brings a fresh looking, simplified approach area and will continue to provide veterinarian and reflects our pharmaceutical image but retains dedicated support which is a cornerstone to elements of the original branding.
upon our strong veterinarian brand identity and enables us further to emphasise our dedication to this channel.
The updated design differentiates it from the everyday foods making it a strong brand identifier.
As an exciting part of the refresh we have updated and refocused our pet owner websites.
This provides easy accessibility and functionality for pet owners looking to discover quality nutritional advice that enhances their pets life.
32 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Stock Code: DPH 33 Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion Expansion into New Zealand Background Acquisition and Integration RxVet Limited was first established in 2010 by two The deal was finalised in November 2017 entrepreneurs with an animal health background, and completed in December 2017 for a total Peter Blaikie and Nick Gorman, who recognised consideration of 0.3 million NZ$0.6 million with an opening to provide a broader range of a further 0.02 million NZ$0.04 million deferred veterinary products than were currently available payment which was paid in July 2018.
Plans in New Zealand and to offer a local, more intimate were developed to merge the activities, and the service.
RxVet had acted as our distributor since first step was to combine the sales teams to offer 2010, selling Dechra products into the New optimal territory coverage.
The next challenge was to ensure that both sets Over the years the business grew as the of sales people were familiarised with the wider collaboration delivered new registrations and product range.
This required both technical and products for the New Zealand companion animal commercial sales training as the Apex products and equine veterinarians.
The founders also were broadly generic with sales generated attracted a few other suppliers to add critical through commercial negotiations and good mass and complementary products.
relations, whereas the RxVet products were more orientated to the technical benefits of the In October 2016, Dechra established its own products.
This is an ongoing process and is reliant organisation in Australia through the acquisition on building a good team ethic.
of the trade and assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd. Apex Laboratories were also commercialising It is was also important to ensure the products in some veterinary registrations in New Zealand registration did not lose focus or time to market and therefore the next natural step was to due to management being engaged in integration discuss with RxVet how we could best optimise activities.
To date this has been successfully the sales growth and customer service.
It was achieved with three new products having been agreed that by combining forces, the merged registered since the acquisition.
businesses would offer better critical mass, be The next phase of the plan was to rebrand and more competitive and grow sales through a more rename RxVet to Dechra Veterinary Products NZ optimal territory coverage.
At this point Dechra Limited.
This is a key factor in our international offered to purchase the RxVet business with strategy to enhance Dechras image globally the proviso that current owners remained in the and ensure that where we have our own sales business to allow customer continuity and retain organisation, our employees feel that they are local market experience.
part of the larger family with greater opportunity for career progression and that they embrace the Dechra Values.
34 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Stock Code: DPH 35 Strategy in Action: Acquisition Integration of AST Farma Le Vet we continue to maintain the good reputation and Background image of AST Farma among Dutch veterinarians, On 13 February 2018, Dechra acquired AST Farma will enable us to create the strongest partner B. V and Le Vet Beheer B. V. for a total consideration for companion animal veterinarians in the of 340.0 million on a debt-free and cash-free Netherlands.
The total consideration was satisfied as to approximately 75% in cash and 25% in new Dechra New Opportunities with AST Farma Direct shares, which are subject to a two year lock-in.
to Vet Model In the Dutch market the direct-to-vet distribution AST Farma was established in 1999 by Sebastiaan model will offer new opportunities for Dechra.
Tesink, and had grown to become one of the leading We intend to increase market penetration and companion animal pharmaceutical companies in the improve margins by making Dechras products Netherlands, focused on generic plus products.
The available directly to veterinarians through AST business was started with a basic range of companion Farma logistics and by promotion through the animal registrations acquired from Fort Dodge now combined enlarged sales team.
We will start Zoetis, and grew its reputation by launching niche supplying the Specific nutrition range through this products, including ranges for minor species, and by model from 1 September 2018 and the complete offering added value services to veterinarians.
In an Dechra range in January 2019. independent Dutch market research conducted by Vet 150, assessing customers opinions of suppliers, Increasing our Broad Portfolio AST Farma has consistently scored in the top two of Products in the EU companies among companion animal veterinarians for In the rest of Europe, gaining access to the 60 the past ten years.
Le Vet products will significantly strengthen our range.
We already market a number of products, Dechra considered AST Farma to be innovative and a 15 of the 60 products, in the majority of EU very customer oriented company.
Part of its success territories: however in some countries, notably had been driven by their direct-to-vet delivery Germany and Belgium, we had no access to the model, with over 80% of sales going direct instead Le Vet product range.
In the past 15 years they have been very focused on developing quality Since completion we have already terminated generic plus products.
Additionally, they have taken 20 agreements with Le Vet marketing partners molecules from human medicine and developed across Europe.
We will start to relaunch Le Vet the first veterinary licensed equivalent products.
A products in Dechra livery, starting in Germany prime example of this is the European registrations of and France in early September 2018, with a flow Metrobactin and Tralieve.
of products continuing through to the end of 2019.
By this time we will be marketing the vast Le Vet B. V. a subsidiary of Le Vet Beheer B. V. was majority of Le Vet products through our own sales established in 2002 by Alexander Tesink.
Bringing sales that were made focused on the European markets outside of the through third party marketing partners in-house Netherlands, registering 60 of the AST Farma products allows us retain the distribution margin.
in EU member states which were sold through a network of marketing partners including Dechra.
Access to a Robust Pipeline In addition to the existing portfolio, AST Farma Reasons for the Acquisition and and Le Vet were developing a robust new product Progress To Date pipeline of over 30 products, a number of which Strengthening the Groups Position in the have already been approved since the acquisition Netherlands completed.
This pipeline will further strengthen The combination of Dechra and AST Farma in Dechras portfolio to its customers across Europe the Netherlands has moved Dechra to number and we will also look to register a number of the four in the rankings of animal health companies products in our international markets.
In April 2018, we integrated the now preparing to launch the first new product, two sales organisations in the Netherlands into Tralieve a pain relief tablet, in Germany, the UK the AST Farma premises in Oudewater.
This first veterinary license for the changes in roles and responsibilities have been use of tramadol in dogs fits perfectly into our communicated to our customers and the team fast growing anaesthesia and analgesia focus was quickly working cohesively.
strengths of both companies and ensuring that 36 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
