Q&A with Richard Cotton Pharmaceuticals R&D increased by 22.0% as the Group invested to expand its development pipeline.
Richard Cotton Chief Financial Officer Q What were the financial highlights of 2018?
Q The Groups cash conversion was weaker than in recent A Dechra produced another strong set of financial results in 2018 in years what was the main cause of that?
both the existing and acquisition business.
Revenue grew 13.9% A Working capital increased in the year due to a number of reasons.
over 2017, which translated to a 17.1% increase in Gross profit.
The Manufacturing remodelling strategy includes a planned This leveraged the cost base with a 24.0% increase in Underlying shutdown and upgrade of production lines at our Bladel facility over Operating Profit and a 20.9% increase in Underlying diluted EPS.
To achieve this, inventory was built up during the year to cover the period of production capacity outage.
We expect Q Revenue grew strongly in the year where did the this to be a temporary increase in inventory which will unwind over growth come from?
There has also been a planned increase in Inventory in North A European Pharmaceuticals existing business revenue grew to America to improve customer service levels.
Following the go live of 240.6 million, from market penetration and new product launches, Oracle, there was a temporary delay in shipping some product which and acquisition business added 18.1 million of revenue from Apex, was then shipped in June, resulting in a delay in expected Accounts RxVet, AST Farma and Le Vet.
North American Pharmaceuticals Receivable collection.
These were minor new system teething issues grew particularly strongly, with 18.3% growth to 148.4 million as the which have since been overcome.
commercial team expansion bore results.
Q How much did Dechra invest in research and Q The AST Farma and Le Vet acquisition was a significant development R&D in the year?
financial investment by the Group.
A Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure increased by 22.0% from A At 340.0 million, AST Farma and Le Vet was the biggest acquisition 15.0 million to 18.3 million: this included an 18.7% increase in that Dechra has ever made.
Consideration was paid 75% in cash the existing business as well as R&D expenses incurred within and 25% in new Dechra ordinary shares.
The cash consideration was the acquired business.
Dechra stated in the 2017 Annual Report financed from the net 102.3 million proceeds of an equity placing its strategic intent of increasing R&D expenditure to enable the with the balance of 126.7 million drawn from a new 350.0 million expansion of the Groups product pipeline.
R&D expenses as a Term Loan facility.
percentage of sales have increased from 4.2% to 4.5%.
This was Q What caused the increase in Net Debt during delivered without impacting the Groups Underlying EBIT margin, the year?
What is the Groups balance sheet leverage which increased by 200 bps to 24.4%.
ratio and what does the Board target?
Q How much is Dechra investing in the Manufacturing A Net debt increased from 120.0 million to 211.4 million in the year.
remodelling project, and how much of that spend has This comprises an increase of 133.4 million to part fund the acquisition already been incurred?
of AST Farma and Le Vet in February and a net 40.6 million reduction A When the programme was first communicated in 2017, the Group from cash generated by the business during the year.
indicated that between capex and non-underlying expenditure it The Group maintains a conservative balance sheet, with the Net was planning to invest 18.0 million in the project over five years.
debt: EBITDA leverage ratio at 1.75 times.
This is broadly in line That target remains, and the project is on schedule and budget.
adjusted for currency exchange rate fluctuations with the guidance In the year 3.5 million was spent on capex and non-underlying given at the time of the AST Farma and Le Vet acquisition when new expenditure, so cumulatively 4.2 million has now been spent since debt was drawn.
Typically the Board would target maximum Net debt: the projects inception.
underlying EBITDA of 2.0 times, though in the right circumstances may go to a level above this.
All growth figures quoted are at constant exchange rate CER unless otherwise stated Watch the full interview with Richard Cotton at dechra.
com Stock Code: DPH Stock Code: DPH Stock Code: DPH 27 27
