Delivering Our Strategy Since 2013, our priorities for each Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler have been clearly defined and communicated and are outlined in the table opposite.
In this section of the Annual Report we describe the progress we have made towards achieving our strategic objectives.
Generate long term value for shareholders International specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products business Strategic Growth Drivers a b c Pipeline Portfolio Geographical Acquisition Delivery Focus Expansion Strategic Enablers Manufacturing and Technology People Supply Chain Dechra Values Dedication Enjoyment Courage Honesty Relationships Ambition Read more on Strategic Growth Read more on Our Values Drivers on pages 30 to 37 on page 45 12 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com Our Strategic Link to Strategy Growth Drivers Our Progress in 2018 Future Priorities in Action Two further Poultry Vaccines registered in Continue to identify innovative Vaccines EU: Avishield IBH120 and ND B1.
See pages 30 Launch of further Amoxi-Clav dose Further develop Dechra and 31 sizes to complete range for the USA market.
laboratory network, including Pipeline Delivery further FDA licensing.
In-licensing of major new products including Deliver our pipeline on time, Redonyl Ultra, Vetradent and BioEquin.
Continue to develop Vaccines at the right costs and with the pipeline.
Progress in co-development licensing opportunities.
Explore and negotiate further Refill the pipeline so that we in-licensing deals.
get a constant flow of new Prepare for registration and products in future years.
Resolution of Nutrition supply and palatability Deepen market penetration Enhancing our a c b issues, and launch of refreshed cat diets.
of existing products across Specific Portfolio all territories.
Strong growth in European FAP following See pages 32 and 33 antibiotic product alignment and range Enhance Nutrition and FAP Portfolio Focus additions.
Maximise our revenue Leveraging CAP product success to Continue to drive marketing by increasing market increase penetration across Group.
penetration, focusing on targeted therapeutic sectors Continued growth in Equine, with stronger within CAP, Equine, FAP and growth in Europe from market penetration Nutrition.
Over 80 new country registrations of Develop Dechra Veterinary Expansion into existing portfolio products.
Products International New Zealand business.
Acquisition of RxVet expanding our See pages 34 presence in New Zealand, route to market, Continue to leverage current and 35 Geographical Expansion and dis-intermediating distribution margin.
registration portfolio in newer Leverage our product portfolio territories.
Successful establishment of the Dechra into new geographic regions Veterinary Products DVP International team.
Increase international country through distribution partners, registrations.
in-country presence and new Development of international registrations country product registrations.
Acquisition and successful integration of Continue integration Integration of RxVet, expanding our presence in New and leverage of recent AST Farma Le Vet Zealand, route to market, and acquisitions.
See pages 36 dis-intermediating distribution margin.
Acquire businesses in target and 37 Acquisition First full year of Apex, which opened up geographical therapeutic Expand our geographical new bridgehead into Australasia and South markets.
footprint and or enhance our East Asia.
product portfolio through Acquisition and successful initial integration acquisition.
of AST Farma and Le Vet, providing transformation in EU Pharmaceuticals portfolio and pipeline.
Progress in execution of Manufacturing Execute Manufacturing and Corporate Social remodelling strategy, in Zagreb inbound Supply Chain remodelling Responsibility Report transfers and Bladel FDA in particular.
See pages 46 and 47 for more on our Employee 12 months without a lost time accident.
Develop and integrate Strategic Enablers Engagement Survey procurement activities.
and Health and Safety Completion of employee engagement Our strategic enablers, survey, providing valuable feedback.
Continue to develop Manufacturing and Chairman and Chief leadership effectiveness, Supply Chain, People and Successful implementation of the European Executive Officers and quality of talent.
Technology, support the Oracle project and completion of Hyperion Report execution of our strategy.
Continue to develop Oracle See page 18 for more on ERP and other business Technology systems.
