Q&A with Ian Page It has been another good and ultimately successful year for Dechra.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer little bit of knowledge, however, our real emphasis is on providing Q What have been the key drivers of success throughout novel products to veterinarians.
We have bought two businesses the year?
that are predominantly generic or generic plus within AST Farma and A It has been another good and ultimately successful year for Dechra Le Vet and within Putney recently, but we have also invested a huge despite a number of challenges, those namely being the reorganisation amount of time and effort in new partnerships and researching new and investment that we have had to put in to Manufacturing to ideas to make sure we have got a drug development pipeline that improve efficiencies, but also we have invested a huge amount of time includes a lot of unique and novel products that will enhance our key and effort into what proved to be a successful go live on an Oracle therapeutic sectors.
ERP integrated system for the majority of European countries which happened in May.
Q Acquisitions are clearly a major factor of your growth: what is next on your agenda?
Commercially, it has been a similar pattern to previous years where we A As always, we have a target and list, and we are engaging with a have outperformed the majority of markets in which we trade within number of companies.
It is very difficult to get them to the table and the EU.
We have also put greater investment into our International it is very difficult to get them over the line.
Having said that, we have business, but the biggest success has been the USA where we have proved successful and we have delivered good growth through massively outperformed the market and we have seen yet again acquisition over recent years.
So we remain hopeful that in the near excellent growth.
Overlaying that is the full year effect from Apex, but term we can bring one or two more complementary businesses into also a four month contribution from the most recent acquisition that the Dechra Group.
we have made which is AST Farma and Le Vet.
Q How does the increasing amount of consolidation Q Can you tell us more about the strategy behind the of veterinary practices by groups such as Banfield AST Farma and Le Vet acquisition and the progress on and CVS affect Dechra?
A This has been a facet of our market, particularly in the USA and A The strategy is very clear.
AST Farma and Le Vet has been our the UK for a number of years now and we see the incorporated number one target within Europe for some time.
It brings additional groups as major customers to Dechra and the trend is only going products to the Group, it strengthens our position in the Netherlands to continue.
We have started to restructure a number of our sales and also extends our European pipeline.
Although it is predominantly organisations to put greater focus on key account management generic or generic plus, most of the range is complementary to our and to put more emphasis on these practice consolidators.
In the AST Farma part of the business it strengthens do put a challenge on margins, but at the same time they deliver our Dutch offering but also gives us a direct to vet capability from a volume.
I think there is a lot of change in the marketplace overall, logistics perspective where we do not have to be dependent upon not just consolidation of practices, but also the change of the role the distribution network that is currently in place.
The big benefit of the distributors but I think that one of Dechras advantages is our to the Group though is the Le Vet side of the business.
Le Vet, we flexibility and our capabilities to deal with change very quickly.
were already one of their major distributors, but they also sold their products through several other companies and we are now able to Q What does the future hold for Dechra and terminate those agreements to bring more products in-house.
From an integration perspective, the Dutch aspect of the business A First of all looking at Dechra, the market for veterinary products is now fully integrated: the sales teams are co-ordinated, the continues to grow, people continue to spend more on their pets, the commercial aspects are now all operating out of the AST Farma demand for high quality protein increases year on year across the facility for the Dutch market, but as I have already said the big benefit globe, so Dechra as one of the few mid-sized companies I think is falls on the Le Vet side and with Le Vet we have now terminated most best placed in terms of its flexibility and its strategy to continue to of their agreements with our competitors and we are now starting to outperform markets.
bring the products in-house which gives us the full value chain and From a personal perspective I have been CEO now for 17 years.
I the full margin for these products and I think within two years we will still have drive: I still have ambition, I believe we are still creating a have completed the majority of the exercise and will have taken the huge number of opportunities for Dechra, so as long as I have got full value out of this acquisition.
the Boards, the employees and the shareholders support, I see no reason for change in the immediate future.
Q Following the AST Farma and Le Vet acquisition you have been described by one arm of the animal health press as Watch the full interview with Ian Page at the generics specialists: is that now your strategy?
com A I can understand how people may come to that conclusion with a 26 26 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www www.
