Our Business Model Explained Innovation, Development Manufacturing Supply Chain and Registration Product development ideas are generated Manufacturing is a key competence Our products are distributed through in numerous ways, including: of the Group: the prime objective is to two major logistics sites.
The principal deliver safe, efficacious, cost effective, objective is to deliver a customers order regular cross functional meetings quality products.
Veterinary products on time and in full every time.
where all senior staff are encouraged come in many dosage forms, and often, to bring new ideas from their Our European and International markets batch runs for veterinary medicines are experience in the marketplace.
are serviced from our own logistics relatively small compared to human facility based in Uldum, Denmark and networking with key opinion leaders, production: therefore it is often very North America is supplied out of a third especially in our focus therapeutic difficult to outsource supply.
We have party logistics supplier in Kansas City.
areas, to identify and develop ideas.
a wide range of competencies across The majority of veterinary practices are our six sites including tablets, creams, employing talented veterinary supplied through specialised veterinary liquids, ointments, powders, vaccines and scientists who extensively screen distribution companies that operate as sterile injections that can be packed in a scientific papers looking for new one-stop shops.
They stock the majority multitude of different presentations.
technologies that might have an of items veterinary practices need and application in our marketplace.
offer high levels of service, often with a next day delivery.
These distributors, on In addition, our profile gives us exposure the whole, are not proactive in selling to human pharmaceutical and biotech product: they predominantly supply to companies that are developing demand where the demand is driven technologies, usually for human medicine, by Dechras own sales activities within but often with a veterinary application.
There are a few spread our development portfolio across markets where we offer direct supply, novel entities, differentiated generics, such as Germany and, post AST true generics and lifecycle management Farma acquisition, the Netherlands that projects across multiple species.
are not fully supported by veterinary Our formulation and development distributors or where legislation enforces laboratories are located at our all pharmaceuticals to be sold through manufacturing sites which allows us to pharmacies, such as Denmark, Italy, emulate the manufacturing equipment at Norway and Sweden.
laboratory scale, a key expertise for inhouse product development.
After opportunities have been identified we have an evaluation phase where we assess opportunities and ideas to determine whether we can technically manufacture the product and whether it is commercially viable to do so.
Once a product has been classed as suitable for development it will be allocated to an internal development team who will be responsible for taking the product all the way through feasibility, research and development to regulatory submission.
Once all the studies are concluded, if the product reaches the required safety, efficacy and stable chemical formula, regulatory dossiers are prepared for registration and filing with the relevant regulatory authorities.
Stock Code: DPH 09 Our Customers Sales and Marketing Turn the page to read about Our Products All our products and sales and Dechra operates its own sales force marketing activities are targeted at and provides in-house marketing and veterinary professionals.
The majority of technical support in 24 countries, veterinarians prescribe and dispense the predominantly in Europe and North drugs, although there are a few territories America.
In almost all these territories in the world where the veterinarian we have highly skilled field based writes a prescription and the drugs are representatives who make regular calls purchased by the animal owner at a with all major veterinary practices in their pharmacy.
The majority of our sales are territory.
The representatives brief is to made into veterinary practices that tend sell the product on a technical basis, to specialise in either companion animal outlining the beneficial aspects of our or food producing animal treatment: products and to provide educational however, there are numerous practices support on how best to treat animals in that are classified as mixed and who our key therapeutic sectors.
There is also an We also provide high levels of technical increasing number of equine practices support and pharmacovigilance through and referral hospitals that provide high helplines in every country in which levels of specialisation.
These helplines provide profession is going through huge change veterinarians with support on how best to as incorporated practice groups are use our products and with free advice on consolidating practices at an increasing any difficult or complex cases that may be rate.
In many countries, our relationship encountered.
with these groups is very important: we are increasingly focused on key The relationship with veterinarians is key account management.
With the ongoing and, to this end, we provide added value integration of professional farming units, services.
We offer high level educational our Food producing Animal Product programmes focused on the treatment of sales efforts are now often focused conditions in our key therapeutic sectors.
on these major integrators: however, We deliver this education through many the integrators themselves employ channels, including major conferences, veterinarians who remain responsible for regional groups, to individual practices the prescribing and administration of our and increasingly through digital channels.
These programmes are certified to offer veterinarians and veterinary nurses the continuing professional education hours they require to maintain their professional qualification.
Our Dechra Veterinary Products International sales, into over 50 additional countries, are through marketing and distribution partners who mainly promote our product range under the Dechra brand names in their own livery, often alongside their own or other in-licensed products.
