Directors Report Other Disclosures The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2018.
Certain disclosure requirements which form part of the Directors Report are included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Therefore, this report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report which includes the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 8 to 59 along with the Corporate Governance Report and Board Committee Reports.
They are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and include: Details in respect of the Board of Directors: Details in respect of Directors Indemnities: Statement of Directors Responsibilities: Review of the Groups business during the year and any likely future developments: Details of acquisitions and disposals during the year: Going concern and viability statements: Approach to employees with disabilities and employee involvement: and Details in respect of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Information in relation to post-balance sheet events and financial risk management including the exposure to price, credit and liquidity risk can be found in note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders.
Significant Agreements Change of Control As detailed in the Going Concern Statement on page 71, the Group has bank facilities with a group of banks comprising Bank of Ireland UK plc, BNP Paribas, Fifth Third Bank, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Santander UK plc the Banks : these facilities include change of control provisions.
Under this provision, a change of control of the Company could result in withdrawal of facilities.
No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business as a whole.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, other than the Company share schemes.
Under such schemes outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
In the event of a change of control, unvested awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan will vest to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the extent of vesting so determined shall be reduced to reflect the proportion of the relevant performance period that has elapsed.
The Directors consider that there are no contracted or other single arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its values.
Furthermore, there are no contracts of significance subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking and a controlling shareholder or in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Directors The Articles of Association state that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board but so that the total number of Directors does not exceed the maximum number of Directors allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association.
The maximum number of Directors currently allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association is ten.
The Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and in doing so may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provision of relevant legislation and the Companys Articles of Association.
The powers of the Directors set out in the Articles of Association include those in relation to the issue and buy-back of shares.
Overseas Branches The Company, through its subsidiaries Genera d. d. has established branches in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia, and Apex Laboratories Pty Limited in New Zealand.
Political Donations and Expenditure No political donations were made during the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: nil.
The Group has a policy of not making any donations to political organisations or independent election candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Research and Development The Group has a structured development programme with the aim of identifying and bringing to market new pharmaceutical products.
Investment in development is seen as key to strengthen further the Groups competitive position.
Further information in relation to product development can be found on pages 38 and 39.
The expense on this activity for the year ended 30 June 2018 was 18.3 million 2017: 15.0 million and a further 1.7 million 2017: 1.2 million was capitalised as development costs.
Results and Dividends The results for the year and financial position at 30 June 2018 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 111 and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on page 113.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 18.17 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 16 November 2018 to shareholders registered at 26 October 2018.
The shares will become ex-dividend on 25 October 2018.
An interim dividend of 7.33 pence per share was paid on 6 April 2018, making a total dividend for the year of 25.50 pence per share 2017: 21.44 pence per share.
The total dividend payment is 26.1 million 2017: 20.0 million.
