88 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 89 8.
Helen C. Gordon, 59 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2018 Skills and expertise: Helen is a chartered surveyor and is CEO ofGrainger plc Previously, she was Global Head of Real Estate BOARD OF Asset Management of Royal Bank of Scotland plc and has held senior property positions at Legal & General Investment Management, Railtrack and John Laing Developments Other current commitments: Chief Executive Officer of Grainger DIRECTORS plc, Vice President of the British Property Federation, Board 1 Member of EPRA European Public Real Estate Association Committees: Remuneration, Nominations 1.
Robert A. Rayne, 70 5 Non-Executive Chairman Appointed to the Board: 2007 9 9.
Richard D. C. Dakin, 55 Due to retire from the Board: 17 May 2019 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and expertise: Robert Rayne was Chief Executive Officer of 14 Skills and expertise: Richard has been Managing Director of London Merchant Securities plc and has been on the boards of a 11 Capital Advisors Limited, part of CBRE, since 2014 Previously, number of public companies, including First Leisure Corporation hehad been employed at Lloyds Bank since 1982 where plc and Crown Sports plc Other current appointments: 4 heundertook a variety of roles and gained an extensive Non-Executive Director of LMS Capital plc and Richoux Group plc knowledgeofproperty finance and the real estate sector 6 12 and Chairman of Voreda Capital and The Rayne Foundation HeisaFellow of theRoyal Institution of Chartered Surveyors andan Associate Member of Corporate Treasurers 2.
John D. Burns, 74 Committees: Risk chair, Audit, Nominations Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 1984 Skills and expertise: A chartered surveyor and founder 10.
Claudia I. Arney, 48 ofDerwent Valley Holdings in 1984, John has overall Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2015 responsibilityfor Group strategy, business development Skills and expertise: Claudia was Group Managing Director andday-to-day operations From 17 May 2019, John will ofEmap until 2010 Prior to that she held senior roles at  Chairman of Derwent London plc HMTreasury, Goldman Sachs and the Financial Times Other current appointment: Member of the Strategic Other current appointments: Chair of the Governance Boardofthe New West End Company Limited Committeeof Aviva PLC, chair of the Remuneration CommitteeofHalfords PLC, Interim Chairman of the 3.
Damian M. A. Wisniewski, 57 PremierLeague andNon-Executive Director of Kingfisher plc Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2010 Committees: Remuneration chair, Audit, Responsible Skills and expertise: A chartered accountant who, prior Business, Nominations tojoiningDerwent London, held senior finance roles at Chelsfieldplc, Wood Wharf Limited Partnership and Treveria 11.
Dame Cilla D. Snowball, 60 Asset Management Damian has overall responsibility for Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2015 financial strategy, treasury, taxation and financial reporting Skills and expertise: Cilla is the former Group Chairman and Other current appointments: Trustee and member of Group CEO at AMV BBDO, the UKs largest advertising agency thegoverning body at the Royal Academy of Music and Other current appointments: Womens Business Council Non-Executive Director at the ABRSM chair, Private Sector Council, GREAT campaign chair Committees: Responsible Business chair, Nominations, Risk 4.
Simon P. Silver, 68 Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1986 12.
Simon W. D. Fraser, 55 Skills and expertise: Co-founder of Derwent Valley Holdings, Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board: 2012 Simon has overall responsibility for the Groups development Skills and expertise: Simon started his career in the City in andregeneration programme together with the commissioning 1986and, from 1997 to his retirement in 2011, worked at of architects He is also at the forefront of the Companys brand 7 3 BankofAmerica Merrill Lynch where from 2004 he was identity He is an honorary fellow of the Royal Institute of Managing Director and co-head of corporate broking BritishArchitects Othercurrent appointments: Non-Executive Director ofLancashire Holdings Limited, Cathedral Underwriting 5.
Paul M. Williams, 58 Limitedand of Legal and General Investment Management Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1998 Holdings andTrustee of Glyndebourne Estate Skills and expertise: Paul is a chartered surveyor who joined Committees:Nominations chair, Audit, Remuneration theGroup in 1987 He has overall responsibility for lease 2 management and lettings, sustainability, and the delivery of the 8 13 13.
Stephen G. Young, 63 Groups substantial projects He takes a leading role in Derwent 10 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2010 Londons support for Teenage Cancer Trust From 17 May 2019 Due to step down from the Board: 17 May 2019 Paul will become the ChiefExecutive of Derwent London plc Skills and expertise: Stephen is a chartered management Other current appointments: Chairman of The Paddington accountant Previously, he has held a number of senior Partnership, Director of Sadlers Wells Foundation, member positions, including Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC and ofBCO and Deputy Chairman of the Westminster Property GroupFinance Director at Meggitt PLC, Thistle Hotels plc Association Committee: Responsible Business andtheAutomobile Association Other current appointment: Non-Executive Directorof 6.
Nigel Q. George, 55 TheWeirGroup PLC and Non-Executive Director ofMondi Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1998 Limited and Mondi plc Skills and expertise: Nigel is a chartered surveyor who joined Committees: Audit chair, Risk, Remuneration theGroup in 1988 His responsibilities include acquisitions and disposals and investment analysis Other current appointment: Director of the Chancery Lane Association Limited 14.
Lucinda Bell, 54 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2019 7.
David G. Silverman, 49 Skills and expertise: Lucinda is a chartered accountant and Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2008 from 2011 to 2018 was CFO of The British Land Company plc Skills and expertise: David is a chartered surveyor who joined 'British Land' Prior to that, she held a range of finance and theGroup in 2002 His responsibilities include overseeing taxroles at British Land Other current appointments: theGroups investment acquisitions and disposals David is Non-Executive Director of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc and apast Chairman of the Westminster Property Association Rotork plc Treasurer and National Trustee at Citizens Advice Other current appointment: Chairman of Chickenshed Property Co Committees: Audit, Risk, Nominations
