74 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 75 Dear Stakeholder, Stakeholder engagement Externally, we are active in ensuring our ESG standards are clearly This Responsibility section integrates the reporting on the ESG Effective stakeholder engagement is critical to fostering mutually communicated to our supply chains, principally via our Supply Chain aspects of our business and provides an overview of how we manage beneficial relationships and securing our long-term success.
Sustainability Standard more on page 113.
In addition, we are clear responsibility on our zero-tolerance position with regards to slavery and human ESG matters.
We do this to reduce risk and create new, or maximise Ourengagement programmes for key stakeholders are described existing, opportunities.
The Responsibility section should be read onpages 18 to 19 of the Strategic report and pages 92 to 93 of the trafficking as set out in our Modern Slavery Statement, which can inconjunction with our Annual Sustainability Report, which provides Corporate governance statement.
com investors governance As a responsible business, we a comprehensive review of our environmental and  basedwork.
Developing and maintaining strong relationships within the understand, balance and manage our communities in which we operate is an essential part of our Reporting frameworks environmental, social and governance Being a responsible business is embedded in Derwent London management approach.
Being active in and contributing positively We report under several frameworks to provide a complete picture itisvisible in our culture, approach to risk and in the design and tothe neighbourhoods in which our properties are located means ofour progress and activities and to allow comparison with our ESG risks and opportunities.
Central to the success of this wecan understand the needs of our community stakeholders peersand other companies.
Our reporting aims to show not only a approach is the linkage of ESG matters to our strategy.
Two of our ingreater depth.
This is backed by our Community Fund which property-sector specific perspective EPRA Best Practice Reporting fivestrategic objectives, detailed on pages 37 to 38, focus on our supports numerous grass roots projects and initiatives across measures but also a broader international perspective the Global stakeholder responsibilities: ourTech Belt and Fitzrovia West End villages.
Reporting Index and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
For further details on our EPRA measures, please see pages Objective 3: to attract, retain and develop talented employees We also support a variety of organisations through pro bono work, 201 to 202, and for our Global Reporting Index disclosures and United Objective 4: to design, deliver and operate our buildings responsibly volunteering, employment opportunities and mentoring.
Full details Nations Sustainable Development Goals alignment, see our Annual of our community initiatives can be found within our Annual Sustainability Report.
Our management structure and style ensure that we can respond to Sustainability Report.
changes in regulation and occupier demand.
Likewise, they enable us Data assurance to plan more effectively for the long-term and ensure we are putting Human rights As part of our commitment to robust and transparent reporting, the right systems and processes in place to maintain our position as The protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is Deloitte LLP assure our environmental data points and health Londons leading office-focused REIT.
oneofour key ESG priorities which we manage from an internal andsafety data.
Our audit assurance statement from Deloitte LLP within our business and external perspective within our supply isavailable in our Annual Sustainability Report.
In 2018 we continued to make progress against our strategic chain andour relationships with contractors.
Board oversight of Further engagement environmental and social issues has been strengthened through Internally, the Board monitors our culture to ensure we maintain I will be available at this years AGM, on 17 May, if you wish to ourvalues and high standards of transparency and integrity.
askanyquestions in respect to the role or remit of the newly theestablishment of a new Board-level Committee, the Responsible Business Committee, which will be dedicated to overseeing our OurHuman Resources team ensures that we have the right systems established Responsible Business Committee.
If you wish corporate responsibility agenda and stakeholder engagement.
andprocesses in place to strengthen and sustain our culture.
tocontactme, I am available via our Company Secretary, Iwillchair the new Committee and am delighted to have been Further information on the development of our employees can be DavidLawler telephone: 44 0 20 7659 3000 or designated by the Board to act as the dedicated Non-Executive found on page 78.
The Boards role in managing the Groups culture email: company.
com Director for gathering the views of our workforce.
During 2019, can be found in the Introduction from the Chairman on page 85. twoemployees will be nominated by the workforce to become Dame Cilla Snowball members of the Responsible Business Committee see page 92.
Alongside other stakeholders, the interests and well-being of Chair of the Responsible Business Committee Dame Cilla Snowball ouremployees and the local and wider community is factored 26 February 2019 Chair of the Responsible Business Committee ESG matters are interlinked and cannot be managed in isolation.
In2019 the Group will be undertaking a strategic review of its sustainability work.
The aim of the review is to ensure that each of our ESG priorities is set into a specifically designed structure which will allow for even greater efficiency in management and reporting.
Non-financial reporting INTEGRATED REPORTING As we have fewer than 500 employees, the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006 do not apply to us.
The table below summarises where key elements of our ESG reporting are disclosed.
Some of these are integrated However, due to our commitment to promoting transparency in our reporting and business practices, we have elected to provide further with other sections of the Annual Report.
information in the table below.
Environmental Social Governance Key policies and standards Additional information Environmental Sustainability Policy Annual Sustainability Report matters Science-based carbon targets Climate change resilience see page 76 p. 76 p. 26 p. 01 Climate resilience Communities Culture Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Executive Directors annual bonus see page 125 Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting SECR disclosure Our principal risks see page 56 p. 76 p. 102 Gender diversity targets p. 18 Our stakeholders Science-based carbon targets Social and Volunteering Policy Community see pages 18 and 26 employee matters Equal Opportunities & Diversity Policy Our employees see pages 18 and 78 Professional Development & Training Promoting diversity see page 79 and 102 p. 113 Supply Chain Sustainability Standard p. 79 Health and well-being p. 87 Our governance framework Shared Parental Leave Our principal risks see page 48 Flexible Working Policy p. 76 SECR disclosure p. 75 Protection of human rights p. 111 Risk management Respect for human Individual Rights Policy Health and safety see page 80 and 112 rights Health & Safety Policy Statement Human rights and modern slavery see page 75 Supply Chain Sustainability Standard Supply Chain Sustainability Standard see page 113 p. 77 TCFD summary p. 75 Modern Slavery Statement p. 113 Anti-bribery and corruption Modern Slavery Statement Anti-bribery and Anti-bribery Policy Audit Committees report see pages 104 to 109 GDPR and preventing the facilitation p. 108 Whistleblowing p. 114 corruption issues Whistleblowing Policy Risk Committees report see pages 110 to 115 of tax evasion Expenses Policy Our principal risks see page 54 Money Laundering & Terrorist Financing Policy Preventing facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy The Annual Sustainability Report can be downloaded from our website at: www.
com sustainability p. 20 Business model p. 42 Non-financial key performance indicators p. 102 Board diversity 76 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 77 TCFD summary RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD released its first draft disclosure guidelines in June 2017.
We present asummary of our disclosures below.
Our full disclosures can be found in our AnnualSustainability Report.
GOVERNANCE Climate resilience Describe the Boards oversight of Our Responsible Business Committee, aprincipal committee of the Board, oversees the Climate change represents a principal long-term risk for our business.
climate-related risks and opportunities management of our climate-related risks and opportunities, which is inturn informed by our We invest significant time and effort into ensuring we are managing the risks itpresents.
Describe managements role in Paul Williams is the main Board Director with overall accountability for sustainability.
As part of assessing and managing climatehis role as chair of the Sustainability Committee, he oversees the review and performance of our We made good progress over the past year with a reduction related risks and opportunities climate-related work.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 of20%incarbon intensity across the like-for-like portfolio.
2 Thismeans weare on track to meet our targets by 2027 20% reduction in like-for-like carbon intensity tCO e m 2 seeourAnnual Sustainability Report.
STRATEGY 75% waste recycling rate Energy efficiency actions taken during 2018 Describe the climate-related risks and Short-term 0-5 years : market shift in terms of stricter legislation, e. g. the introduction in the UK As part of our ongoing energy efficiency programme, we have opportunities the organisation has of the new minimum energy efficiency standards MEES for commercial and domestic property.
OUR FOCUS AREAS FOR 2019 installed advanced energy analytics in several of our multi-let identified over the short, medium and Medium-term 5-10 years : market demand from occupiers in terms of buildings and spaces long-term withhigher levels of efficiency and low carbon footprint.
properties as a means of driving down their energy consumption Develop COP21 action plans for each managed property Long-term 15 years : the changing climate conditions in London, principally temperature profiles.
During 2018 these included BMS optimisations, inourfive-year plan increases and their effect on our buildings.
chillerstaging and lockout, optimised night purging, variable Undertake our statutory audit programme for phase 2 speeddrive optimisations and eliminating heating and cooling Describe the impact of climateAs a property investor, climate-related issues affect the way we develop new buildings and ofEnergy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS conflicts, which resulted in savings of over 4.5m kWh of energy related risks and opportunities on the howwe manage existing ones.
Complete an evaluation of the environmental and social duringthe year.
organisations businesses, strategy and To help us plan climate-related investments into our managed properties, we havebuilt a impact study of our White Collar Factory building financial planning scenario analysis tool.
This allows us to test the impact of different energy carbon management Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting SECR measures into specific buildings to estimate the effect they will have on our science-based carbon targets.
As a real estate investment trust REIT we invest in, develop and disclosure manage property.
Our properties are subject to physical climateFollowing the Government announcing the replacement of the Describe the resilience of the Our business strategy involves both investing in new developments and acquiring older related risks, such as increasing temperatures, which could CRCEnergy Efficiency Scheme and extension of the scope of organisations strategy, taking into propertieswith future regeneration opportunities.
We ensure a high degree of resilience in leadtogreater stresses on our properties and cost increases.
theMandatory Carbon Reporting, we now report in line with consideration different climate-related ournew developments and the regeneration of older properties by setting high standards for Wetherefore factor climate resilience into our new developments newSECR regulations, which are provided below: scenarios, including a 2C or lower environmental sustainability.
When managing our core income portfolio, we have a significant andour management approach to existing buildings.
Significant scenario focus on energy and carbon reduction, ensuring our buildings operate as efficiently as possible.
focus is given to energy and carbon reduction to ensure our buildings GHG and energy data 2018 2017 As a result, our strategy centres around the concept of continual improvement which ensures operate as efficiently as possible.
ahigh degree of both climate and financial resilience.
Ultimately we do not envisage having Total Scope 1 emissions tCO2e 4,223 4,189 tomake changes to our strategic approach when considering climate related scenarios.
Total Scope 2 emissions tCO e 2 Our properties are subject to climate-related risks such as increasing temperatures which could Science-based carbon targets Location based 3,458 3,538 lead to greater stresses on our properties and in turn increase our cost base, e. g. management In 2016, Derwent London agreed its first set of science-based Market based 4,478 5,475 and utility costs and our GHG emissions.
targets, aligned with the International Energy Agencys IEA Energy Total Scope 3 emissions tCO e 12,538 14,859 2 Technology Perspectives 2C scenario data and the UK Carbon Plan 2 Carbon intensity ratio tCO2e m 0.019 0.020 2050 Futures model.
Recently, the Science Based Targets Initiative RISK MANAGEMENT Total energy use kWh of electricity, validated our science-based targets, which are to reduce scope 1 gas and biomass use 34,297,942 29,207,987 2 2 and 2 emissions 55% per m and scope 3 emissions by 20% perm Describe how processes for identifying, Each year senior managers from various areas of the business collate their key risks, by2027 from a 2013 and 2017 base line, respectively.
assessing, and managing climatewhichincludes sustainability climate change related risks.
The risks are assessed by For further analysis of our GHG emissions, energy consumption and related risks are integrated into the theExecutive Committee to understand their severity, likelihood and the optimal controls Our existing portfolio and development pipeline incorporate the right renewable energy generation, use and procurement see our Annual organisations overall risk management and or mitigation required.
resilience measures to mitigate any potential negative impacts and Sustainability Report.
ensure we meet our targets.
METRICS AND TARGETS SECR data notes Disclose the metrics used by the We report an extensive range of consumption and intensity metrics relating to energy, Reporting period 1 January to 31 December 2018 organisation to assess climate-related carbon, waste and water in our Annual Sustainability Report.
risks and opportunities in line with its Boundary Operational control, based on our corporate activities and property portfolio all of which are in central London UK only.
strategy and risk management process consolidation approach Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting SECR disclosures on page 76.
Alignment with The only variation is that the GHG emission energy data presented does not account for single-let properties or properties appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas financial reporting for which we do not have management control.
This is because we have no control or influence over the utility consumption GHG emissions, and the related risks inthese buildings.
However, the rental income of these properties is included in our consolidated financial statements.
Reporting method We arrange our GHG emissions reporting in line with the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Describe the targets used by the Following our review of the Paris Agreement on international climate change in 2016, Reporting Standard.
For further details on our data calculation methodology please the data section of our Annual organisation to manage climatewedeveloped aset of science-based targets to ensure we align our carbon reduction Sustainability Report.
related risks and opportunities and programmewith this agreement, and ensure we minimise our risk exposure to the effects performance against targets ofclimate change on our managed portfolio.
uk government collections  for source allemissions factors apart from the Scope 2 market based residual mix factor which is from Reliable disclosure systems forEurope, 2014 European residual mixes www.
org documents Scope 3 emissions We use the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard to collate and report on our relevant Scope 3 emissions.
Our relevant emissions categories include fuel and energy-related activities, waste generated in operations, business travel and emissions from downstream leased assets tenant emissions.
Independent Public reasonable assurance using ISAE 3000 provided by Deloitte LLP over all Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions data, assurance intensity ratio and energy data.
Our assurance statement can be found in our Annual Sustainability Report.
78 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 79 Employee engagement Health and well-being RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We gather feedback regularly from our employees to assess their The health and well-being of our employees is a priority.
We conduct a formal biennial employee Werecognise that individuals work best and can achieve sustainable survey, designed and developed in conjunction with an independent high-performance over time when they are healthy and feeling provider and sponsored by the Executive Directors.
This is supported by our culture, leadership and how we theDirectors have started hosting monthly forums with small groups manage our people.
People ofemployees to encourage feedback and provide an opportunity foremployees to propose innovative ideas see page 19 and 92.
Our HR team and Directors operate an open-door policy with the Our objective is to attract, retain and develop talented employees.
hope that individuals feel able to discuss any issues they have at We were delighted with the 97% response rate to our 2017 employee work or in their private lives and can receive reassurance and Attracting and optimising talent survey and a steering group was established in 2018 to discuss support.
Our absence levels continue to be very low and wherever OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Our employees are the most important ambassadors of the theresults and suggest improvements for the lower scoring areas.
necessary we work with our occupational health provider to support DerwentLondon brand.
In order to maintain our excellentemployee Thesteering group presented suggestions to the Executive our employees appropriately.
Continued to manage our talent pipeline via the Fit for engagement and retention rates year-on-year, wewant all our Committee and various initiatives have since been launched.
theFuture management and leadership programme employees to feel valued and have the opportunity to develop within Theimpact ofthese changes will be measured via the next survey In addition to launching agile working, we received extremely Established a steering group toaddress priority areas their roles.
It is extremely important for usto support individual inQ4 2019. positivefeedback on our Savile Row office refurbishment with arisingfrom the 2017 employee survey aspirations and have robust succession plans in place, which are 94%of respondents saying that the new facilities supported Organised initiatives to promotewell-being and ensure fundamental to the future growth and stability of the business.
In January 2019, we conducted a short pulse check to obtain theirwell-being.
We continue to provide healthy breakfasts and arespectful, inclusive, collaborative and safe culture interimfeedback and enable us to support our employees during fruitand vegetables throughout the day.
We work closely with Although 30% of our employees have been with us for more than theforthcoming period of change.
We were pleased that we achieved ouroccupational health provider and offer well-being seminars, 10years, a similar number have joined the business over the past a 91.0% response rate and that the overall employee satisfaction ontopics including cholesterol, heart disease and diabetes, OUR FOCUS AREAS FOR 2019 threeyears.
We encourage the diversity of thought, competencies levels were 90.4%.
andservices such as flu vaccinations.
Attendance and feedback andexperience that make up our business.
In addition, we work havebeen excellent and similar seminars, on subjects such Design and conduct our nextemployee survey hardto maintain the Derwent London culture, values and reputation, Diversity and inclusion asemotional and mental health, will be run in 2019.
Continue to develop and promote diversity, inclusion and which have stemmed from the behaviours and values promoted by The Group is committed to being an inclusive and respectful well-being initiatives our Board.
employer that welcomes diversity and promotes equality, During 2018 we reviewed our benefit package and introduced dental Continue to cultivate the talent pipeline viatheFit for the acceptance and teamwork.
insurance to all employees regardless of seniority, in addition to Future programme We support staff through: private medical insurance and a healthcare cash plan.
Through the Arrange a Company away day tofocus on team building healthcare cash plan, all employees have access to an Employee We regularly review our recruitment and working practices to identify andknowledge sharing an induction programme: how we can continue to attract and retain a diverse workforce.
Assistance Programme, fitness and exercise discounts and other biannual performance reviews: Ourdefinition of diversity extends beyond the traditional facets of health and well-being resources.
personal development plans and open discussions: gender, ethnicity, age and sexual orientation to include personality, external training courses and internal technical workshops: communication and work styles.
We recognise that diversity Headcount by department executive coaching: enriches our creative solutions and adds value for our stakeholders.
sponsorship of professional qualifications: and 360 degree feedback.
In accordance with our Equal Opportunities Policy, we give full andfair consideration to all employment applicants.
Recruitment, Investment Following an in-depth review of the business-critical roles and talent training, reward and career progression are based purely on merit.
6 pipeline within the Group, 2018 saw the launch of our Fit for the Wherever possible, we also accommodate part-time, agile and Leasing & Property Future initiative.
This is being run as three 12-18 month modular flexible working requests.
Finance & Marketing ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Information management and leadership development programmes for 30 of Technology Our employee base is relatively well balanced in respect to 10 ouremployees.
Each module is run by a dedicated Executive Coach As part of a combined well-being initiative for our staff, 27 and sponsored by two Executive Directors who are involved in the gender, with 57% male and 43% female while, within our senior occupiersand charities, our building management team at design and content of the modules, which tie in with our values.
management team, about one-third are female.
Around threeWhiteCollar Factory EC1 organised a relay marathon on Development Themodules are focused on increasing self-awareness, learning quarters of our employees classify themselves as white and thebuildings unique rooftop running track in September 2018.
Board of andcollaboration and are supplemented with one-to-one and group aquarter as non-white.
With considerable support via social media, they raised over 14 Directors coaching sessions.
Inclusivity is important to us and this initiative 6,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Asset sits alongside anew Core Skills programme available to all Current activities to advance diversity include: 7 Management 14 employees, whatever their role orlevel of experience, to aid their personal development.
mandatory unconscious bias training for all our line managers Building Services inpartnership with the charity Chickenshed: Enabling employees to move into new roles helps them fulfil their nurturing a culture of transparency and openness which 13 Property potential.
We were delighted, therefore, to announce 10 internal encourages people to raise concerns and to speak out Management promotions during 2018, several of whom were participants in the aboutbiasor discrimination: 24 Fitfor the Future programme.
a review of our agile working procedures.
In addition, wideradoption across the business is being encouraged bymanagement, who are leading by example and using 4 Investor Relations agileworking: & Corporate Communications attracting women into our industry through work experience opportunities and school presentations to raise awareness 3 Sustainability 2 Human Resources ofreal estate careers: requiring recruitment agencies to provide gender balanced shortlists: and introducing parental transition coaching for employees before, during andwhen returning from maternity or shared parental leave.
Please refer to pages 102 to 103 for further details of our diversity 124 90% 10 57 43 98% and our progress against the recommendations of the HamptonEmployees Retention rate Internal promotions Male Female ratio % Are proud to work at Derwent Alexander Review.
80 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 81 Portfolio review OUR RESPONSE TO THE HACKITT REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Following the tragic events at Grenfell Tower, we surveyed all ourproperties to establish if aluminium composite materials We continue to monitor changes to the regulatory framework ACM were present, and we enhanced our fire safety procedures thatare likely to arise as a result of the Hackitt Review and across the portfolio.
We commissioned Arup to assess the faades theguidance contained in Building a Safer Future issued in andfireprecautions of our high rise residential and office buildings.
Health and safety December 2018 by the UK Government.
Although the guidance The results of our surveys confirmed an isolated area of ACM and, relates primarily to high-rise residential buildings, it is the although this did not represent a significant risk to life safety, Groupsopinion that many of the recommendations will We continued to improve our health and safety performance itwasreplaced with a composite material.
becomebest practice across the whole industry.
in 2018 as we strive to create an industry leading capability.
In addition to the surveys and risk assessments, we have Our aim is to stay ahead of legislative changes and to implement best practice wherever possible.
Therefore, we are carefully strengthened our inspection regimes, changed the specification reviewing the guidance issuedand will be implementing We have an excellent health and safety record and have made further ofmaterials to be used in the construction of new developments OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 improvements to the way we undertake construction and progress in 2018 key statistics are on page 81.
We aimto achieve an andincreased management focus on any locations which we define property management activities.
These will include: industry leading capability across a wide range of health and safety ashigh risk, including all residential locations and commercial A comprehensive review of fire safety procedures undertaken aspects, including well-being and mental health.
During the year buildings that are ten storeys or more in height.
We also covered across our portfolio maintaining a digital record of our buildings by extending werecruited a new Head of Health and Safety, who will be developing locations that are not under our direct management by working Updated our reporting criteria and key performance ourcurrent use of Building Information Modelling BIM and the team to deliver our strategy and support our integrated approach moreclosely with managing agents or longleaseholders.
indicators Computer Aided Facilities Management Systems CAFM : illustrated inthe chart below.
Increased our health and safety compliance resources an ongoing review of materials and components specified Training andupskilled ourbuilding managers inournew developments: This integrated approach ensures that health and safety and We delivered more than 600 hours oftraining to 412attendees Completed over 600 hours of health and safety training greater focus on competence assessments and training: well-being are considered at every stage during the life cycle of our during2018.
The training ranged from health and safety leadership Reduced our accident frequency rate AFR from 0.12 in 2017 improvements to how and what we communicate to tenants, properties, from acquisition, through to management, development toConstruction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS cards.
to 0.09, with an increase in hours worked of over 35% adding to our existing communications on fire safety and leasing.
The principles of ensuring safe buildings and working We have alsointroduced an online programme that enables procedures: practices are achieved by specifying thematerials and design of our improved management of our data and training plans.
reviewing the new role of Building Duty Holder and roles buildings, whilst ensuring that maintenance operations can be safely OUR FOCUS AREAS FOR 2019 oftheproject team: and carried out.
This approach should ensure our occupiers, staff and Our in-house Building Management conferences serve as an implementing a more rigorous gateway design, visitors are safe, well and productive.
excellentforum to share information, ideas, solutions and training.
Deliver against our health and safety strategy constructionand management process aligned with Progress our employee well-being and mental health Their success has led us to increase their frequency to quarterly thedigital building record.
initiatives 2018 was a busy year for development, with more than two million Invest in new air and water quality initiatives to support hours worked across the portfolio.
This included the on-site Compliance Management System wellness developments at Brunel Building W2, 80 Charlotte Street W1 Our electronic management system, Quooda, has been updated Complete our review of the regulatory framework and andSoho Place W1, as well as major refurbishments at The White toimprove the tracking of actions across our portfolio.
Inaddition, guidance issued by the Secretary of State for Housing, Chapel Building E1 and Johnson Building EC1.
Quooda generates reports which focus on the key management Communities and Local Government priorities.
In accordance with our standard protocols, we are Health and safety is a key element of Derwent Londons undertaking a comprehensive review of our procedures, particularly Construction, Design and Management CDM of development around water hygiene and accident reporting, to ensure they are projects, demonstrated by our performance during 2018: aligned to our integrated management approach.
We have revised Our integrated approach to health and safety H&S compliance our health and safety KPIs to enable the identification of trends 1.96m man hours worked without a reportable accident: and andthe introduction of preventative measures.
an accident frequency rate AFR of 0.09, well below the construction industry average.
Acquisitions Our performance is monitored using a robust set of standards and procedures which are applied to all construction projects.
We strive to be at the forefront of construction best practice and continue to support industry-wide initiatives.
For example, we partner with the Property appointed Principal Contractors to monitor on-site occupational & Asset Development andmental health.
During 2019, we are committed toachieving Management theambitious targets set for our project teams.
H&S COMPLIANCE Above: Members of the Property Management team Wellness We work hard to ensure our buildings support the well-being of our occupiers, for example through the provision of terraces and cycling facilities.
We also ensure diligent maintenance of lighting, water and Health and safety statistics air quality in our buildings and willbe investing in new initiatives in The table below details our key health and safety statistics and accident frequency rate AFR for 2017 and 2018.
Leasing Construction 2019 to enhance environmental conditions for our occupiers.
Employees Managed portfolio Developments 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Man hours worked n a n a n a n a 2,196,901 1,606,311 Acquisitions Leasing Minor accidents 1 2 28 35 20 23 Due diligence Tenant fit-out guides Identify risks non-compliance RIDDORS 0 0 0 2 2 2 Property & Asset Management Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Development Building handbooks Design for safety Occupier relationships Improvement notices 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operations & management review 5-year property strategy Prohibition notices 0 0 0 0 0 0 H&S management system 1.96m 0.09 600 Construction Supplier management RIDDOR AFR n a n a n a n a 0.09 0.12 Site reviews & audits Pre-sale enquiries Man hours worked Development accident Hours ofhealth Public reasonable assurance provided by Deloitte LLP over all minor accidents, RIDDORs, fatalities and improvement notices data.
Our assurance statement can be found Documentation without a reportable frequency rate andsafety training in our Annual Sustainability Report.
