20 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 21 Outcomes OUR business model Outputs We apply our asset management and regeneration H Ho ow w w we e a ad dd d v val alu ue e Adding value for stakeholders 427,100 sq ft skillsto the Groups 5.4m sq ft property portfolio New lettings in 2018, Our core activities Driven by our five usingour people, relationships and financial resources at a rent of 26.8m pa strategic objectives toadd value and grow income while benefitting the ASSET communities in which we operate and the wider TO OPTIMISE RETURNS MANAGEMENT environment beyond.
AND CREATE VALUE Understanding our occupiers 1.
FROM A BALANCED helps us tailor buildings and PORTFOLIO Impacted by 187.5m leases to their needs thereby p. 34 growing our income streams Capital expenditure The world we live in and adding value.
in2018 and over The London office market 1bnin past 10 years p. 62 TO GROW RECURRING and its wider context Driven by EARNINGS AND Office space for todays 2. p. 22 p. 12 CASH FLOW businesses Our purpose To help improve and upgrade DEVELOPMENT AND p. 36 the stock of office space in Our assets and resources REFURBISHMENT central London, providing 10.4% Properties Our focus on design, above average long-term TO ATTRACT, Average annual innovation and value-forp.
16 returns to our shareholders ordinary dividend money creates sustainable RETAIN AND while bringing social and 3. growth over 10 years and flexible buildings DEVELOP TALENTED economic benefits to all Financial resources characterised by generous ourstakeholders.
EMPLOYEES p. 37 volumes, good natural light p. 68 and amenities.
By promoting values that include building long-term p. 65 People and relationships relationships and setting an TO DESIGN, DELIVER open and progressive 13.4% p. 78 AND OPERATE corporate culture, our 4.
Delivering above average OUR BUILDINGS Average annual total p. 25 design-led ethos has created INVESTMENT ACTIVITY long-term returns return over 10 years RESPONSIBLY a brand of well-designed, p. 38 The views of our We are recyclers of capital, flexible and efficient buildings stakeholders acquiring properties with future at affordable rents.
Understanding their key regeneration opportunities to issues through effective build a pipeline of projects and TO MAINTAIN engagement disposing of those with limited STRONG AND 5. future potential.
564,000 FLEXIBLE p. 18 p. 63 FINANCING Invested to date in p. 39 local initiatives by ourCommunity Fund Strong governance and risk management p. 84 OUR VALUES Measured via Investing in neighbourhoods p. 26 our KPIs Reputation, integrity and good OUR CULTURE and communities governance p. 40 Building long-term relationships Hard-working and adaptable andtrust A passion to improve Londons D DI IS ST TI IN NC CT TI IV five EL LY D Y fide ER RW WE EN NT T Focus on creative design and office spaces embracing change Progressive and pragmatic I In nv five es st ti in ng i g in e n em me er rg gi in ng l g lo oc ca at ti io on ns s Experienced and collaborative team Openness and transparency Open door and inclusive F Fo oc cu us o s on m n mi id dd dl le e- -m mar ark ke et r t re en nt ts s Proactive occupier relationships Sustainability and responsibility Collaborative and supportive S St tr ro on ng b g ba al lan anc ce s e sh he ee et t Design focus and innovation 22 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 23 OFFICE SPACE FOR TODAYS BUSINESSES BRUNEL BUILDING, PADDINGTON W2 Cutting-edge design in a prominent location Providing good quality cutting-edge office space is a core partof Derwent Londons business, with an underlying focus on design excellence.
Following our ground-breaking White Collar Factory, our 243,000 sq ft Brunel Building is due for completion in the first half of 2019.
Occupying a prominent canalside island site, opposite Paddington station and its newCrossrail entrance, we had theopportunity tocreate something different.
With architects Fletcher Priest, wecameup with astriking diagrid structure.
The external steel frame echoes the 19th century industrial aesthetic of Isambard Kingdom Brunel, but is also immensely practical, supporting column-free office floors.
The 17,000 sqft floors are infused with natural light from tall windows and our signature 3.5m ceiling heights, substantially more generous than standard office designs.
This follows our view that buildings should work as well on the inside as the outside.
Design inside and out The building will have a double-storey reception with a ground floor restaurant and caf, and glass doors opening upthe space to the waterfront.
There will be two large terraces on theupper levels, one for communal use, both having excellent views.
The development will also open up a new public towpath along the canal which has been inaccessible for over 60 years.
Innovation Construction work started in 2016 with the groundworks beingparticularly sensitive due to their position beside the canal and above the Bakerloo underground line.
The steel structure incorporated many bespoke pre-fabricated concrete sections that contractors Laing ORourke created off-site at their factory in Yorkshire.
This approach has enabled a very good quality fast-track construction programme.
Broad appeal In line with our strategy, we committed to the development on aspeculative basis with the aim of fide-risking it as the project progressed.
During 2018, we pre-let almost two thirds of the building and were very pleased to secure Sony Pictures as the first occupier.
We followed this by letting the top two floors to aleading international private equity group.
Including a further letting in 2019, the building is now 77% pre-let.
Lease terms range from 10 to 15 years and we achieved rents on average 15% above December 2017 ERV.
The wide range of occupiers reflects the broad appeal of our space and demonstrates thatwe are building office space that suits todays businesses.
24 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 25 DELIVERING ABOVE AVERAGE LONG-TERM RETURNS TEA BUILDING, SHOREDITCH E1 Creating the strategy Core income properties currently represent over half our portfolio balancing the more opportunity-rich elements of theportfolio.
However, this doesnt mean that these buildings lack growth and we continually look to enhance them through a series of rolling initiatives.
These often attract less public attention then our major developments but are important tokeep the portfolio up-to-date.
Our Tea Building, Shoreditch E1 is one such example.
It was acquired in 2001 as awarehouse, at one stage owned by LiptonTea, hence its name.
Itwas first placed in the under appraisal part of the portfolio with a plan to create modern offices serving the Citymarket.
An office market downturn intervened but, as webuy buildings with good bones i. e. goodstructures, we were able to adapt it.
Instead weundertook alow cost rolling refurbishment highlighting thebuildings industrial heritage.
Delivering the plan In 2003 the building attracted advertising agency Mother whoshared our vision and moved from Midtown into bespoke space in an up-and-coming location.
They took a 15-year lease on 44,000 sq ft, which was extended for another 10 years to2028.
Elsewhere the building was typically let as multiple smalloffice suites on five-year leases with rents averaging c. 9per sqft.
In 2010 Shoreditch House opened itsdoors, introducing aprivate members club and a roof-top swimming pool, reinforcing the buildings status as an excitinghub.
The second decade of ownership has seen the building become the heart of an established location for creative businesses.
The average size of units has grown with the scaleof the occupiers.
The ground floor has also been improvedwith the introduction of Brat, Pizza East, Lyles and The Smoking Goat.
The spaces environmental performance has also improved, as we rolled out our Green Tea strategy, with upgraded windows and insulation, motion sensitive lighting and the introduction of a thermal loop shifting warm and cool air around the building.
This initiative now covers 80%of thebuilding, and the most recent office rent achieved is 58per sqft.
Looking forward Tea Building has become an extraordinary 269,300 sq ft property, which has helped transform the surrounding area into a thrivingTech Belt hub.
Our progress has benefitted from significant interaction with the occupiers which has seen our leasing and design strategies evolve not just here but in other properties.
Tea Building has produced very good long-term returns for us with its value alone, allowing for capex, increasing by almost 300% since 2001.
However, we believe there is more to come as there is reversion to capture, and we are currently transforming the entrance and reception areas tobring these in line with the buildings other improvements.
26 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 27 INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES AND NEIGHBOURHOODS FITZROVIA W1 Long-term commitments Our roots in Fitzrovia W1 run deep starting with the purchase of The Cartwright Estate by London Merchant Securities in 1958.
This was followed by further purchases building up holdings in the area north of Goodge Street.
The merger with Derwent Valley in 2007 broadened thisexposure adding more properties closer to Oxford Street to the south.
Today we own 1.4 million sq ft in the area, c. 30% of our portfolio.
Attracting employers In the 60 years we have invested in the area, we have built headquarter buildings for global engineers Arup and renowned advertising agents Saatchi & Saatchi.
The latter were in occupation for 40 years, but recently relocated to new premises.
Their property is now the site of our 80 Charlotte Street development, representing a c. 400m capital commitment, started in 2016 and due for completion in 2020.
We are very excited that this scheme will accommodate Arupsfurther expansion for another 20 years, as well as introducing another global brand, The Boston Consulting Group, to thearea.
Shifting focus of amenity Although we are principally known for our office buildings, wehave enhanced the retail provision along Tottenham Court Road, diluting the historical dominance of furniture and hi-firetailers.
While a number of furniture retailers remain, including a recently introduced new IKEA in-town concept at our 95 Tottenham Court Road, changing shopping practices have seen most of the hi-fi shops disappear.
We created ninenew shop units at Tottenham Court Walk which were better suited to current retail requirements and these have been letto retail and restaurant outlets new to the area.
Overall there has been a significant increase in businesses that servethedaily needs of local residents and office users.
Ournext major development, Soho Place in the south ofthiscluster, includes five retail units and a new theatre aswellas 209,000sqft of offices.
Our 80 Charlotte Street development includes 55 new residential units helpingto ensure that the vibrancy ofthiswonderfully mixed-use area is maintained.
Supporting local community initiatives In recognition of our deep involvement in the area, we set up alocal community fund in 2013 with the commitment to invest 250,000 into local causes over three years.
We honoured thatpromise supporting 16 local initiatives including Fitzrovia Youth in Action, Fitzrovia Centre, All Souls Club House, All Souls Primary School and the American Church Soup Kitchen.
Thesuccess of this work has led us to extend the fund, andwerecently committed to provide funds until 2021.
28 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 29 OUR DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 On-site Planning consents potential starts Future consideration The Featherstone Building EC1 Holden House W1 Network Building W1 This warehouse-inspired office building will be a fitting neighbour to our ground-breaking White Collar Factory, and is one block south We have received a resolution to grant consent for a 150,000 sq ft redevelopment either The current Fitzrovia building comprises ofSilicon roundabout.
The new 125,000 sq ft building will replace two tired properties totalling 69,000 sq ft. Thedesign incorporates asretail or for mixed office and retail use at the fast improving eastern end of Oxford Street.
64,000 sq ft, which preliminary studies anumber oftypical Derwent London features: 3.1m from floor to soffit, concrete core cooling, opening windows, multiple terraces The site is particularly appealing due to its relative depth which israre at this end of the street.
suggest could rise to c. 100,000 sq ft. andaground floor cafe linking with the reception area.
Wegained possession of the site at the end of 2018.
The current property totals 90,000 sq ft and is let to a mix of retail and office occupiers.
Soho Place W1 above 19-35 Baker Street W1 Francis House SW1 Our next major project is located on one of Londons most strategic sites at the eastern end of Oxford Street and abovethe Tottenham Court We have a resolution to grant consent for 293,000 sq ft of offices, retail and residential.
A scheme under consideration could Road Elizabeth line station.
Thedevelopment comprises two buildings together with anewpiazza linking to Soho Square.
1 Soho Place Thisrepresents double the existing area.
The property is currently held in a joint venture increase this buildings area from totals 191,000sq ft of office space with three roof terraces includingone for communal use.
The ground and first floors willhave five retail withThe Portman Estate in which we have a 55% interest.
The adjoining building 2 Soho Place will comprise a new 40,000 sq ft theatre as well as 18,000 sq ft of offices.
