132 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 133 The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial Substantial shareholders statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Table 1 shows the holdings in the Companys issued share capital which had been notified to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The information below was correct at the date of notification.
It should be noted that Directors This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
these holdings may have changed since the Company was notified.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable Bytheir nature, any statements about the future outlook involve threshold is crossed.
riskand uncertainty because they relate to events and depend 31 December 2018 26 February 2019 oncircumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Actual Number of shares Number of shares Report results, performance or outcomes may differ materially from any Table 1 Direct indirect m % Direct indirect m % results, performance or outcomes expressed or implied by such Invesco Limited Indirect 14.3 12.84 Indirect 14.3 12.84 forward-looking statements.
Each forward-looking statement BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd Indirect 6.0 5.39 Indirect 6.0 5.39 speaks only as of the date of that particular statement.
Norges Bank Direct 5.6 5.01 Direct 5.6 5.01 Stichting PGGM Depositary Direct 5.6 5.01 Direct 7.4 6.65 No representation or warranty is given in relation to any forwardAmeriprise Financial Inc Indirect 4.8 4.75 Indirect 4.8 4.75 looking statements made by Derwent London, including as to their Columbia Threadneedle completeness or accuracy.
Nothing in this report and accounts Lady Jane Rayne Direct 3.6 3.56 Direct 3.6 3.56 should be construed as a profit forecast.
Both the Strategic report and the Directors report have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable Employees Powers of the Directors English company law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection The Board recognises the importance of attracting, developing and Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions retaining the right people.
In accordance with best practice, we have Actand any directions given by special resolution, the business of provided by such law.
employment policies in place which provide equal opportunities for theCompany will be managed by the Board who may exercise all all employees, irrespective of sex, race, colour, disability, sexual thepowers of the Company, whether relating to the management Corporate governance arrangements orientation, religious beliefs or marital status.
ofthebusiness of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board During the year ended 31 December 2018, we have applied the mayexercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, principles and complied with the provisions of good governance During the year under review, Cilla Snowball was designated the toguarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the 2016 Director responsible for gathering the views of the workforce.
undertakings, property, assets present and future and uncalled Code.
Further details on how we have applied the 2016 Code can be Furtherinformation on the Boards methods for engaging with capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of found in the Governance section on pages 83 to 135.
From 1 January theworkforce are on page 18 and 92.
2019, we will adopt the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 anythird party.
Both the 2016 Code and the 2018 Code can be Directors found in the Corporate Governance section of the Financial Reporting The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year, Directors training and development David Lawler Councils website: www.
uk andup to the date of the signing of the financial statements, are Details of the training that has been provided to the executive and Company Secretary setout on pages 88 and 89.
Each Director served throughout the Non-Executive Directors during the year can be found on page 97.
Company status and branches financial year ended 31 December 2018, save for Lucinda Bell who Derwent London plc is a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT and the was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2019.
Share capital holding company of the Derwent London group of companies which As at 26 February 2019, the Companys issued share capital The Directors report for the financial year ended 31 December includes no branches.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange main The Board shall consist of no fewer than two Directors and not more comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares and equalled an 2018 is set out on pages 132 to 135.
Additional information which market with a premium listing.
Shareholders may vary the minimum and or maximum amount of 5,576,996 divided into 111,539,937 ordinary shares.
is incorporated into this Directors report by reference, including number of Directors by passing an ordinary resolution.
information required in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Results and dividends The market price of the 5p ordinary shares at 31 December 2018 was Listing Rules, can be located on the following pages: The financial statements set out the results of the Group for the Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available 28.53 2017: 31.18.
During the year, they traded in a range between financial year ended 31 December 2018 and are shown on page 145. toshareholders for inspection at the Companys registered office 27.40 and 32.41 2017: 24.28 and 31.20.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 46.75 pence per and at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Details of the Directors Future business developments p. 01 p. 121 Long-term incentive schemes ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2018.
When taken remuneration and service contracts and their interests in the Details of the ordinary share capital and shares issued during the throughout the strategic report together with the interim dividend of 19.10 pence per ordinary share sharesof the Company are set out on pages 116 to 131. year can be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
paid in October 2018, this results in a total dividend for the year of 65.85 pence 2017: 59.73 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to Appointment and replacement of Directors Rights and restrictions attaching to shares p. 18 Stakeholder engagement p. 135 Significant agreements approval by shareholders of the recommended final dividend, Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Subject to the Articles of Association, the Companies Act and other thedividend to shareholders for 2018 will total 74m.
If approved, shareholders, or by the Board.
Appointment of a Director from shareholders rights, shares in the Company may be issued with theCompany will pay the final dividend on 7 June 2019 to outside the Group is on the recommendation of the Nominations suchrights and restrictions as the shareholders may by ordinary p. 44 Viability statement p. 154 Interest capitalised shareholders on the register of members at 3May2019.
Committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution, as the Board may Board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation decide provided it does not conflict with any resolution passed by PID and non-PID dividends tobe requested from the Nominations Committee.
As a REIT, Derwent London must distribute at least 90% of p. 83 p. 170 Governance Financial instruments theGroups income profits from its tax-exempt property rental At every AGM of the Company, any of the Directors who have been These rights and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if business by way of a dividend, which is known as a Property Income appointed by the Board since the last AGM shall seek election by the they were set out in the Articles of Association.
Subject to the Articles Distribution PID.
These distributions can be subject to withholding members.
Notwithstanding provisions in the Companys Articles of of Association, the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, p. 102 Diversity p. 178 Financial risk management tax at 20%.
Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual Association, the Board has agreed, in accordance with the 2016 Code unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
business are non-PID and will be taxed as an ordinary dividend.
and in line with previous years, that all of the Directors wishing to continue will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for Credit, market and p. 109 Internal control p. 179 re-election by the shareholders at the 2019AGM.
liquidity risks Directors indemnity Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained by the p. 111 p. 189 Risk management Related party disclosure Company.
134 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Governance 135 Significant agreements Greenhouse gas emissions DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors Due to our commitment to transparent and best practice reporting, oremployees providing for compensation for loss of office or we have included our streamlined energy and carbon reporting employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that, SECR disclosures on page 76 of the Responsibility report alongside Variation of rights under the rules of the Groups share-based remuneration schemes our annual GHG greenhouse gas emissions footprint and an The rights attached to any class of shares can be amended if approved, either by 75% of shareholders holding the issued shares in that class some awards may vest following a change of control.
intensity ratio appropriate for our business, which fulfil the by amount, or by special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon Report Regulations 2013.
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote and every achange of control of the Company.
member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him or her.
No person holds securities in the Company For further analysis and detail on our GHG emissions, please see carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it makes a ourAnnual Sustainability Report, which can be found at: distribution to another Company which is beneficially entitled to 10% www.
com sustainability Derwent London shares held by the Group or more of the shares or dividends in the Company or controls 10% or During the year under review, the Group held 4,952 Derwent London shares in order to deliver the deferred bonus shares to the Directors and more of the voting rights in the Company, a substantial shareholder, Going concern other senior executives when the deferral period expired see page 130.
Movements on the holding of these shares are detailed below.
unless the Company has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a Under Provision C. 1.3 of the 2016 Code, the Board is required to distribution being made.
The Companys Articles of Association give report whether the business is a going concern.
In considering this Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 the Directors power to take such steps, including the power to: requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: As at As at As at As at 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 2018 Acquired Disposed 2018 2017 Acquired Disposed 2017 identify a substantial shareholder: the Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years, withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: inparticular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
Number of 5p ordinary 4,952 4,952 25,040 20,088 4,952 shares and Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts: require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial the headroom under the Groups financial covenants: and Percentage of issued share 0% 0% capital shareholding.
the risks included on the Groups risk register that could impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months.
Price 30.27 26.73 There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual or other arrangement which is essential to the business of the Company.
Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company A further special resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the Amendment of Articles of Association and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 11,164,720 theCompany, which is governed by its Articles of Association and Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of existence until at least February 2020.
Therefore, theBoard continues prevailing legislation.
The Company is not aware of any agreements ordinary shares and the resolution sets the minimum and maximum Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer prices which may be paid.
The Directors will only purchase the may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys of securities.
Companys shares in the market if they believe it is in the best shareholders.
Annual General Meeting AGM interests of shareholders generally.
The 35th AGM of Derwent London plc will be held at The Westbury Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back Fixed assets hotel, 37 Conduit Street, London W1S 2YF on 17 May 2019 at itsown shares Voting The Groups portfolio was professionally revalued at 31 December 10.30am.
Atthe request of a shareholder, the 2019 AGM will include At the 2018 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to allot Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting whether 2018, resulting in a surplus of 100.2m, before accounting a presentation on our business from the Executive Directors.
relevant securities, ona show of hands or a poll, as provided in the Companies Act.
The portfolio is included in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of 5,112m.
Further details are TheNotice of Meeting together with explanatory notes is contained i up to a nominal amount of 1,857,728: and Where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands given in note 16 of the financial statements.
in the circular to shareholders that accompanies the report ii up to a nominal amount of 3,716,013, after deducting this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant shareholder to andaccounts.
fromsuch limit any relevant securities allotted under i, vote in the way in which the proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
Post-balance sheet events inconnection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
This is subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting which Details of post-balance sheet events are given in note 35 of the The Strategic report and Directors report have been approved are given to any shares or upon which any shares may be held at the financial statements.
bytheBoard of Directors and signed on its behalf by: This authority is renewable annually.
An ordinary resolution will relevant time and to the Articles of Association.
beproposed at the 2019 AGM to grant a similar authority to allot: Political donations David Lawler If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, the only There were no political donations during 2018 2017: nil.
Company Secretary i up to a nominal amount of 1,860,601 being one-third vote which will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed 26 February 2019 oftheissued share capital of the Company : and first on the register for the share.
Auditors ii up to a nominal amount of 3,721,759 after deducting  LLP, which was appointed in 2014 following fromsuch limit any relevant securities allotted under i, Restrictions on voting a competitive tender process, has expressed its willingness to inconnection with an offer by way of a rights issue Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attend continue in office as the Groups Auditor and, accordingly, resolutions beingtwo-thirds of the issued share capital.
or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or upon a poll to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to determine its or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
These are resolutions general meetings or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to At the 2019 AGM, similar to previous years, authority will be sought 16and 17 set out in the Notice of Meeting.
via a special resolution to enable the Directors to allot securities and those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or if he has or sell any treasury shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles of The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors a nominal amount of 279,118 representing 5% of the issued share Association after failure to provide the Company with information report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no capital.
In addition, authority will be sought via a special resolution concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is to enable the Directors to allot securities and or sell treasury shares the Companies Act.
unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis for the purposes of financing ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any orrefinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders relevant audit information and ensure that the Auditor is aware of the original transaction an acquisition or other capital investment.
that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares under such authority will also be limited to a nominal amount of 279,118 representing a further 5% of the issued share capital.
