44 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 45 Assessment of prospects Qualifications and assumptions Stress testing our risk resilience The Board has assessed the Groups prospects and long-term The key assumptions which underpin our strategic plan are: The Directors stress tested our strategy against a combination of viability with due consideration to: principal and emerging risks which were likely to have a significant VIABILITY impact on the Groups solvency and liquidity over the five-year review the Groups business model remains broadly unchanged our current position and performance pages 4 to 43 : andcontinues to focus on the central London office market: period.
A scenario was modelled that assumed a severe decrease business model flexibility pages 20 to 21 : we continue to operate a progressive dividend policy whilst inproperty values combined with significant letting delays at the financing arrangements page 72 : and ensuring dividend cover remains in or above the range of Groups developments and a fall in rental income.
STATEMENT principal risks pages 48 to 57.
1.25%to1.5%: and our portfolio remains approximately the same size.
As at 31 December 2018, the value of the portfolio could fall by 69% The assessment highlighted that the Group has: without breaching the gearing covenants and our property income In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate We have the ability to flex our business model to react to unforeseen could fall by 73% before breaching the interest cover covenant.
a proven business model which has allowed us to remain flexible circumstances or changes in the property cycle by either selling a Governance Code, the Directors and the and resilient during previous property cycle downturns: property to generate additional cash flow or commencing or stopping Brexit scenarios a high-quality customer base of tenants, with none of our development projects to manage our capital expenditure.
We aim to The Board, under the stress testing of our risk resilience, tested senior management team have assessed occupiers being responsible for more than 7% of our total rental maintain an adequate level of cash and available financial facilities.
thepotential impact of various Brexit scenarios, by estimating the prospects of the Company over income: Regular financial forecasting enables us to identify and plan for theirfinancial impact and overlaying this on the detailed financial income visibility for the life of our leases which on average are additional funding requirements in advance.
forecasts included within the strategic plan and five-year forecasts alonger period than the 12 months 8.2years including rent-freesand pre-lets with upward only for viability.
orcontracted rent reviews: Assessment of viability required by the Going Concern provision.
good interest in our mid-market space with strong pre-let To assess the Groups viability, the business model and strategy A range of Brexit scenarios of soft, hard and disorderly were interest in our schemes: werestress tested against our principal risks in isolation and modelled with various levels of impact on our property values and Time period good relationships with our bankers and no issues anticipated combination, various Brexit scenarios and other sensitivities.
In all scenarios, our net interest cover remained The Directors have determined that the five-year period to with respect to the renewal of our revolving credit facilities which above350% and our loan-to-value ratio below 40%, both of which 31December 2023 is an appropriate period over which to assess are due to expire in 2022: and Sensitivity analysis of our strategy are comfortably within our financial covenants.
itsviability based on the following: a low loan-to-value ratio of 17.2% and an additional 250m A detailed five-year strategic review was conducted which considers oflong-term debt raised via the recent US private placement.
the Groups cash flows, dividend cover, REIT compliance and other p. 47 Brexit for a major scheme, five years is a reasonable approximation key financial ratios over the period.
ofthe typical time taken from obtaining planning permission Principal risks foradevelopment to letting the property: and The Schedule of Principal Risks is routinely subject to a These metrics were subjected to sensitivity analysis to assess most leases contain a five-year rent review pattern or break comprehensive review by the Executive Committee, Risk Committee theimpact of the principal risks to the Groups ability to deliver its options.
Therefore five years allows for the forecasts to include and the Board.
Consideration is given to the risk likelihood, impact strategic objectives, which are set out on page 31, both individually the reversion arising from those reviews and to assess the and velocity speed at which the risk could impact on the Group.
potential impact of income lost from breaks exercised.
Itwas agreed that none of the changes in risk likelihood or probabilityduring the year see page 46 had a significant impact This time period is challenged annually to ensure it remains onthe Groupsviability.
Although the Boards viability review focused on a five-year period, it did consider a number of longer-term factors The Directors identified that, of the principal risks detailed on pages Based on the Boards assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able when considering the Groups future prospects, including: 48 to 57, the following are the most important to the assessment tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to 31December 2023. ofthe viability: the weighted average lease length of 8.2 years including rent-freesand pre-lets : Adverse Brexit settlement: As a predominantly London-based due to the long-term nature of our business, Group, we are particularly susceptible to changes which can someofourborrowings extend beyond five years: adversely impact Londons future prosperity.
Although an the nature of the property cycle and our expectations adverse Brexit settlement for London would negatively impact ofhowthisimpacts us: and our business, it would be unlikely to significantly affect the changes in technology and tenant expectations.
viability of the Group within the five-year review period.
Risk arising from our development activities: Our current development pipeline is sizeable and its delivery remains a toppriority.
Despite developments being inherently risky, our pipeline is expected to be a significant driver of our earnings growth over the next five years.
In addition, development upliftsshould enhance valuation returns even in a flat or declining market.
The Directors considered that none of the individual principal riskswouldin isolation compromise the Groups viability.
