Governance Corporate governance report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 Performance evaluation Board of directors During the year an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including the effectiveness of the Chairman and the Boards committees, was undertaken.
The external facilitator, Consilium Board Review, has no other connection with the company.
Membership of the Board and Board Committees Consilium Board Review prepared and presented a report to the The Chairmen, Senior Non-Executive Director and other members Board, which concluded that the Board and its Committees of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and continued to operate in an effective, thoughtful and robust manner, Remuneration Committee are as set out in this Annual Report in the meeting the requirements and spirit of the Code.
The report noted biographies of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
the positive role played by the Chairman and his deep industry There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the knowledge, as well as complementary roles played by the NonChief Executive.
The Chairman, Javier Ferrn, is responsible for the Executive Directors and their interaction with the Chief Executive running of the Board and for ensuring all Directors are fully informed and the Chief Financial Officer.
Also noted were the high quality of of matters, sufficient to make informed judgements.
As Chief the Boards processes and practices, its broad range of agenda items Executive, Ivan Menezes has responsibility for implementing the and its productive leadership and internal dynamics.
strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the company and While noting that the Board was top performing and that there the group.
He is supported in this role by the Executive Committee.
was no need for significant changes, the report did include some The Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board has determined suggestions designed to ensure that the Board continues to perform are independent, are experienced and influential individuals from a to a high level of effectiveness, including in respect of future diverse range of industries, backgrounds and countries.
No individual composition of the Board, its development and dynamics, and the or group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
provision of adequate focus and time to emerging external factors.
The Board discussed the report and its suggestions, and have taken A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonvarious actions to address these suggestions.
It is the Boards Executive Directors is available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness intention to continue to review annually its performance and that aboutus corporategovernance.
of its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation later in Activities and duties of the Board 2018 will be undertaken internally.
The Board manages overall control of the companys affairs with The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform decision.
The schedule was last reviewed in July 2018 and is available effectively, both individually and collectively as a Board, and that at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus each demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Nomination Committee The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for Role of the Nomination Committee dealing with conflicts of interest and responsibility for authorising The Nomination Committee is responsible for keeping under review conflicts of interest is included in the schedule of matters reserved the composition of the Board and succession to it, and succession for the Board.
The Board confirmed that it was aware of no situations planning for senior leadership positions.
It makes recommendations that may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the to the Board concerning appointments to the Board.
company other than those that may arise from Directors other Any new Directors are appointed by the Board and, in accordance appointments as disclosed in their biographies.
with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing Directors retire by to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the rotation every year.
Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive Activities of the Nomination Committee Directors meet without the management present, and also meet The principal activities of the Nomination Committee during the year with the Chairman without management present, on a regular basis.
were: the consideration of potential new Non-Executive Directors: The terms of reference of Board Committees are available at the review of individual Director performance: a review of the www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Executive Committee membership and succession planning for it and for senior leadership positions, in addition to a review of diversity Induction, training and business engagement within the group.
There is a formal induction programme for new Directors, which The recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors typically includes meeting with Executive Committee members and other includes the development of a candidate profile and the senior executives individually and visiting a number of operations engagement of a professional search agency which has no other and sites around the group.
connection with the company specialising in the recruitment of high Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, a calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on potential appointees are continuing understanding of the business is developed through provided to the committee, which, after careful consideration, makes appropriate business engagements.
Visits to customers, engagements a recommendation to the Board.
with employees, and brand events were arranged during the year.
In respect of the appointment of Susan Kilsby the recruitment In addition, Executive Committee members and other senior process included the development of a candidate profile and the executives are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings engagement of a professional search agency JCA Group, which to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
The companys has no other connection with the company specialising in the policy is for all Directors to attend the AGM.
recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on All Directors are also provided with the opportunity, and potential appointees were provided to the committee, which, after encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
The to date on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice Board approved her appointment.
and changing commercial and other risks.
