38 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business reviews: Category review Volume Net sales Marketing spend Category % % % review Scotch represents 25% of Diageos net sales and was up 2% with growth in North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America and Caribbean partially offset by decline in Africa and Europe.
Scotch growth was driven by Johnnie Walker, which delivered a strong performance Scotch Canadian Indian-Made Liqueurs Tequila Ready to Other Vodka whisky Foreign Gin Beer drink with net sales up 5%, and primary scotch US whiskey Rum Liquor brands net sales increased 7% largely IMFL whisky driven by Black & White in Latin America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific.
Africa was Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales Key categories iv impacted by South Africas decline in movement movement movement % % % primary scotch and the soft economic i Spirits 3 5 2 environment in Cameroon.
In Europe Scotch 3 2 1 performance was impacted by weakness ii iii Vodka 1 1 6 in JB.
Elsewhere Windsor net sales were US whiskey 2 7 1 down double digit as it continued to Canadian whisky 2 4 suffer from the category decline in Korea ii Rum 3 1 4 and Old Parr performance was impacted Indian-Made Foreign Liquor IMFL 4 8 1 by tax changes in Colombia.
Net sales in Liqueurs 6 6 4 scotch malts were up 1% with growth ii Gin 17 16 14 primarily in Great Britain and China Tequila 35 40 56 Mainland partially offset by weakness Beer 1 4 1 of The Singleton in Taiwan.
Ready to drink 2 4 Vodka represents 11% of Diageos net i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Vodka, rum, gin including IMFL brands.
sales and declined 1%, an improvement iii Vodka includes Ketel One Botanicals.
against the 4% decline last year.
The net iv Organic equals reported volume movement except for spirits 1 %, rum 10 %, IMFL whisky 3 %, vodka flat, tequila sales decline was driven predominantly 58% and gin 12%.
IMFL whisky was impacted by the move from an owned to a franchise model for some popular segment brands in certain states in India and the disposal of a subsidiary in Nepal, Tequila reported volume by Smirnoff in US Spirits and Europe as benefits from the Casamigos acquisition and other categories were impacted by the reallocation of the Travel well as Smirnoff 1818 in South Africa Retail operations.
which continued to be impacted by the competitive pressure in the mainstream Rum represents 7% of Diageos net sales Liqueurs represents 5% of Diageos net segment.
This more than offset the good and grew 1% with broad based growth sales and grew 6% driven by double digit performance of Smirnoff in Latin America across all regions except North America growth of Baileys in US Spirits as the and Caribbean.
Croc vodka and Ketel where we continue to gain share despite brand benefited from a new media One vodka also declined with growth in category headwinds.
Rum overall campaign and liquid on lips sampling Europe and Latin America and Caribbean performance was largely driven by activations and good performance in more than offset by declines in US Spirits Captain Morgan, up 2%, as well as Europe due to Baileys Original, up 2%, despite improved performance on both Zacapa that grew 8%.
Captain Morgan strong recruitment via Baileys Almande brands compared to last year.
and Zacapa performance more than and launch of time limited flavour Baileys US whiskey represents 2% of Diageos offset declines in Parrot Bay, Strawberries and Cream.
net sales and grew 7% largely driven by Bundaberg and Cacique.
Gin represents 4% of Diageos net sales Bulleit continuing to win share in the IMFL whisky represents 5% of Diageos and grew 16% with broad based growth US whiskey category.
net sales and grew 8% driven by strong across all regions.
Tanqueray and Canadian whisky represents 7% of Gordons in Europe were the largest performance of McDowells No.
1 and Diageos net sales and grew 2%.
contributors to growth as both brands in Crown Royal grew 3% and continued grew double digit.
to gain share in the Canadian whisky Tequila represents 3% of Diageos net category of the US market.
The performance was driven by strong double digit growth of Don Julio in US Spirits and Mexico.
Strategic report Business reviews: Category review DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales Beer represents 16% of Diageos net sales Global giants, local stars ii movement movement movement i and grew 4%.
Growth was largely driven and reserve : % % % by Guinness, Dubic and Serengeti Lite.
Global giants Guinness net sales were up 5% with Johnnie Walker 3 5 5 strong performance in Europe driven Smirnoff 2 5 by Hop House 13 Lager and Guinness Baileys 6 6 5 Draught.
Nigeria also had a strong Captain Morgan 6 2 1 performance with Guinness growing 24%.
Tanqueray 14 15 12 In East Africa, performance of Senator was Guinness 3 5 2 impacted by excise driven price increase Local stars and political instability.
Crown Royal 1 3 3 Yen Raki 10 9 Ready to drink represents 6% of Buchanans 3 2 6 Diageos net sales and grew 4% driven JB 5 9 7 by good performance in North Windsor 13 19 20 America and Europe.
Old Parr 3 9 10 Global giants represent 41% of Diageos Bundaberg 3 4 7 net sales and grew 4%.
Growth was broad Black & White 26 33 28 based across all brands with the Ypica 2 2 7 exception of Smirnoff whose net sales McDowell's 8 3 declined 2%.
iii Shui Jing Fang 50 63 61 Reserve Local stars represent 20% of Diageos Scotch malts 1 1 4 net sales and grew 6%, largely driven by Croc 1 2 6 strong growth of Chinese white spirits, Ketel One vodka 3 1 7 IMFL whisky, Crown Royal in US Spirits Don Julio 34 39 32 and Black & White in Latin America and Bulleit 9 11 5 Caribbean.
This was partially offset by i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
declines of Windsor in Korea, JB in Iberia ii Organic equals reported volume movement except for McDowells 9 % and Scotch malts 2% which were and Old Parr in Colombia.
impacted by the move from an owned to a franchise model in India.
iii Organic growth figures represent total Chinese white spirits of which Shui Jing Fang is the predominant brand.
Reserve brands represent 18% of Diageos net sales and grew 14% largely driven by strong double digit growth in Chinese white spirits and Don Julio.
Net sales of Johnnie Walker reserve variants were up 8%.
Double-digit growth in Tanqueray No.
TEN and Bulleit more than offset declines in Ketel One vodka and Croc vodka.
