02 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our business model Our business model Our business model Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol with meet the diverse needs of our consumers and a portfolio of iconic spirits and beer brands.
It also enables us to quickly identify and act on consumer trends to support growth.
We have a broad portfolio across categories and price points and our products are available in more We use our local and global market expertise to than 180 countries.
Our portfolio and geographic identify and deliver against the most valuable reach enable us to deliver sustainable performance growth opportunities.
and create value for our shareholders.
Our global supply capabilities enable us to The consumer is at the heart of our business.
Using manufacture and distribute our brands efficiently world-class marketing and innovation skills, we and effectively.
Where it makes sense to do so, aim to build and sustain strong brands that play we source and produce locally.
We are passionate about our role in society and Our organisation is structured in a market-based the responsibility we have to our stakeholders, model.
This means we have greater agility and can communities and the environment.
better apply our strategy in individual countries to We make We innovate We are the makers of Led by consumer insights, premium spirits and beer, we unlock new opportunities committed to the highest to recruit and re-recruit quality and standards.
We innovate with new offerings that meet changing consumer demands.
We market We sell We invest in world-class We extend our sales reach marketing to responsibly through leading activations build aspirational brands and advocacy to ensure our that resonate with brands are part of consumer our consumers.
Strategic report Our business model Our business model DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 03 Key highlights Brands 200 Production sites 150 Employees 30,000 Countries 180 How we operate Broad portfolio Our values Each market has the flexibility to select the best portfolio Passionate about consumers: be the best: freedom to succeed: of brands to capture unique consumer opportunities.
proud of what we do: valuing each other.
We then invest in opportunities that we believe offer the Our role in society most valuable growth.
We are committed to playing a positive role in society.
We work to reduce Markets alcohol harm and promote moderation, increase access to opportunities The business operates through a market-based structure for local communities and reduce our environmental impact.
so that we are able to act on local consumer insights and Our brands identify trends quickly to deliver locally relevant solutions.
We own two of the worlds five largest premium spirits brands, Global functions, support and governance Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff, and 22 of the worlds top 100 premium i Our markets are supported by global functional teams and spirits brands.
a broad range of shared services which, together, drive the Our geographic footprint sharing of best practice, enhance efficiency and help build We have broad reach in the United States and Europe and leading in-market capabilities.
Our standards for governance, positions in many of the markets that will generate most of the compliance and ethics are set globally.
Our people Brilliant execution We want all our employees around the world to reach We use cutting-edge consumer insights and marketing, we innovate their full potential and play their part in the success of our at scale and we develop winning relationships with our customers business.
We have created a diverse and inclusive culture through distribution and sales.
with shared values and a common purpose.
Efficient supply and procurement We work to high-quality manufacturing and environmental standards.
Financial strength We aim to deliver strong financial returns and consistent performance.
i Impact Databank Value Ratings, May 2018.
