Governance Corporate governance report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of interest to them at meetings with the chairman of the Board and the of internal control over financial reporting.
chairman of the remuneration committee.
Reports on any meetings  LLP PwC, an independent registered are made to the Board.
public accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups Private shareholders are invited to write to the Chairman or any other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at internal control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private report thereon, which is included in PwCs integrated audit report shareholders to put their questions in person.
below and which will be included in the companys Form 20-F to be filed with the SEC.
Political donations The group has not given any money for political purposes in the Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political organisations financial statements and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.3 million during the year 2017 0.4 million.
These contributions parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable were made exclusively to federal and state candidate committees, law and regulations.
state political parties and federal leadership committees in North Responsibility statement America consistent with applicable laws, where it is common Each of the Directors, whose names are set out in the Board of Directors practice to make political contributions.
No particular political and Executive Committee section of this Annual Report, confirms that persuasion was supported and contributions were made with the to the best of his or her knowledge: aim of promoting a better understanding of the group and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally improved the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018, business environment.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Going concern groups position and performance, business model and strategy: The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018, which have to continue in operational existence.
Accordingly, they continue to been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
as adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Although not assessed over the same period as the going concern, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the viability of the group has been assessed above.
the management report represented by the Directors Report Managements report on internal control over financial reporting contained in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year Management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive and Chief ended 30 June 2018 includes a fair review of the development Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining and performance of the business and the position of the group, adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal that the group faces.
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on on 25 July 2018. the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Directors attendance record at the AGM, scheduled Board meetings Commission COSO in 2013.
Based on this assessment, management and Board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2018 concluded that, as at 30 June 2018, internal control over financial was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board committee reporting was effective.
meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings During the period covered by this report, there were no changes attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.
in internal control over financial reporting that have materially Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee iii iii iii 2017 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 3 maximum 5 i i Javier Ferrn 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 5 ii i i Ivan Menezes 6 6 2 2 2 2 5 5 i ii i Kathryn Mikells 6 6 4 4 1 1 3 3 Lord Davies 6 6 3 4 3 3 5 5 Peggy Bruzelius 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 5 Betsy Holden 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 5 Ho KwonPing 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 5 iii Nicola Mendelsohn 6 6 3 4 3 3 4 5 Alan Stewart 6 6 4 4 3 3 5 5 Philip Scott 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 Susan Kilsby n a 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 i Attended by invitation.
ii Attended by invitation, for part only.
iii Where Non-Executive Directors were unable to attend a meeting they gave their views to the Chairmen of the respective meetings ahead of the meetings being held.
One Sub-Committee meeting of the Audit Committee was also held involving Mr Stewart and Ms Bruzelius.
Mr Scott was unable to attend the 2017 AGM as a result of a prior engagement.
