04 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our strategy Our strategy The global spirits category has shown resilient, In emerging markets, we aim to grow participation long-term growth.
This is being driven by in international premium spirits.
To support this, population and income growth, and the increasing we participate in mainstream spirits so consumers penetration of spirits around the world.
can access our brands at affordable price points.
This also enables us to shape responsible drinking Our strategy is to support premiumisation in trends in markets where international premium developed and emerging countries.
Our broad spirits is an emerging category.
portfolio means we can access different consumer occasions with our brands, across price points.
We have a global beer business, led by our premium brand Guinness.
Beer is our second In developed markets, we support premiumisation largest category after scotch.
We have a large through our premium core and reserve brands.
beer business in Africa with a portfolio that These enable consumers to trade up into reaches across price points.
Everywhere we operate, we aim to do so in a responsible and sustainable way.
Our strategy is delivered through Six executional priorities Our strategy in action p16-18 Keep premium core vibrant Drive innovation at scale Our premium core brands account for roughly two-thirds We build on our existing brands, anticipate new consumer of net sales.
Ensuring we have a vibrant premium core occasions and create the brands of tomorrow with a is therefore critical to our overall performance.
Increase participation in mainstream spirits Build an advantaged route to consumer Mainstream spirits is a sizeable and growing opportunity.
Consumers are at the heart of our business.
Using insights, We have invested in mainstream spirits and have a strong we ensure we understand where to invest our resources foundation from which to drive growth.
so that our brands are consistently presented.
Continue to win in reserve Embed productivity to drive out costs and invest We build our reserve brands by ensuring they are available ingrowth in the most influential outlets.
We also build their reputations We are focused on every day efficiency, effectiveness and with the bartenders and consumers who set trends.
agility to reduce costs and create fuel for our growth.
Our sustainability and responsibility priorities and our commitment togovernance and ethics Our strategy in action p16-18 Creating a positive role for alcohol in society Reducing our environmental impact We are committed to alcohol playing a positive role in We are dependent on the natural resources we share with society through our work to promote moderation and the communities around us and with the wider world.
We remain focused on delivering We are working to reduce our impact in the areas of water, i the five Global Producers Commitments and our own carbon, packaging and waste.
Highest standards of governance and ethics i F or more information on the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers We are constantly looking for ways to strengthen our culture Commitments, visit www.
of integrity and help our people make the right choices.
Building thriving communities For example, we have further enhanced our third-party We want to continue to make Diageo a great, safe and due diligence programme, Know Your Business Partner.
The diverse place to work for our people.
We want to build new technology we have adopted globally enables stronger sustainable supply chains and create programmes that central oversight, ensures a greater impact on risk and is easy empower communities and individuals and increase their to use for us and our partners.
Strategic report Our strategy DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 05 Outcomes of our strategy We measure progress against our strategy using the following financial and non-financial indicators 1 Organic net sales growth 2 1 1 Organic operating margin improvement 1 Earnings per share before exceptional items Efficient Consistent 1 growth value Free cash flow creation 2 Return on average invested capital 2 Total shareholder return Reach and impact of responsible 3 4 drinking programmes 3 4 3 4 Health and safety Credibility Motivated 1 3 Water efficiency and trust people 1 3 Carbon emissions 3 4 Employee engagement index
