14 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Market dynamics Market dynamics Consumer behaviour and the occasions on which We have a strong platform to seize new opportunities people choose to drink alcohol are constantly and unlock growth in our markets.
This is based on evolving: as are regulatory environments and our diverse portfolio, geographic footprint, business stakeholder expectations.
model and commitment to creating a positive role for alcohol and our business in society.
The global alcohol market: broad based, growing and profitable 500 million 730 million 52% 6 billion 300 billion of the global alcohol new legal purchase more consumers market by volume, age consumers are are expected to be equivalent units of alcohol of net sales.
expected to come able to afford sold each year.
to the market over international style spirits over the the next decade.
Key trends Moderate, responsible drinking is part of a balanced lifestyle in many societies around the world, deeply rooted in local rituals and customs.
How alcohol is consumed varies as widely as the cultures and conditions in which people live.
As society and consumer tastes change, so do alcohol markets.
Anticipating, shaping and responding to the trends behind those changes are key to delivering our strategy.
Consumers want to drink better, not more Balanced lifestyles Consumers in developed markets are Consumers across markets are demanding seeking to drink better, not more.
They are a broader range of products that cater to increasingly interested in trying new brands different occasions and lifestyles.
Based on and categories, and are prepared to pay more our insights, we are innovating and investing for products of superior quality, craftsmanship in our brands to ensure we can meet and provenance.
Our premium core and consumer expectations.
reserve portfolios cater to this trend.
Brands This year, in the United States we launched such as Johnnie Walker offer a ladder to Ketel One Botanicals, which has a 30% ABV, increasing luxury through price, liquid age no carbohydrates, no artificial flavours and and provenance.
sweeteners and no added sugars.
We also In emerging markets, increasing wealth launched Guinness Open Gate Pure Brew in means consumers are also seeking to trade up Ireland.
Pure Brew is a 0.5% alcohol by volume into international spirits brands.
In June, we launched Gordons provides an opportunity to offer international Ultra Low Alcohol Gin and Tonic flavoured premium spirits, such as Johnnie Walker Black drink in Great Britain, Spain, Belgium, Sweden Label, to consumers.
Gordons Ultra Low The worlds informal alcohol market Alcohol has less than 0.5% ABV and accounts for 25% of alcohol sales globally, 68 calories per serve.
with emerging markets accounting for a large Consumers are socialising differently Continuing geopolitical uncertainty proportion of this.
Informal alcohol poses risks Through data and insights, we have identified The global economy continues to be subject to consumer health and negatively impacts a shift from late-night drinking to more to political instability and changes in tax revenues.
Our mainstream spirits, such casual occasions that often include food economic variables.
1 in India and Smirnoff X1 and an increase in new types of consumption Our global scale and broad portfolio in Nigeria more on page 17, provide safer occasions, such as festivals.
of brands help provide a natural hedge.
products at affordable price points.
The rise of the aperitif occasion also reflects Our market-based model also enables this trend.
In 2018, we acquired Belsazar, a us to identify and respond quickly to premium vermouth aperitif.
Belsazar is the first local dynamics.
brand to graduate from Distill Ventures DV, Consumers are able to trade up or down our externally managed accelerator depending on the economic environment.
DV builds on our skills and As a result, macro-economic trends are key knowledge to support entrepreneurs in the considerations for our risk planning, outlined development and financing of new brands.
In addition to our own innovation, DV seeks to tap into new and emerging categories.
Strategic report Market dynamics DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 and industry standards, including minimum Earning trust and respect legal purchase age laws and maximum bloodEarning trust and respect are core alcohol concentration driving limits, in countries where these are not already in place.
elements of our performance At the same time, we advocate against ambition and at the heart of our measures that are not based on evidence or purpose of celebrating life, every which could have unintended consequences, such as pushing consumers toward illicit day, everywhere.
Like our brands, alcohol, which can be a risk to public health.
which have been part of Climate change and water stress communities around the world for All businesses, especially those that rely on hundreds of years, we invest for agricultural raw materials and water, are subject to environmental risks.
Our programmes change, and the linked issue of water risk, aim to empower communities can have particularly significant impacts on Smashed is an award-winning theatre and education and individuals everywhere that our wider value chain and associated programme that informs adolescents about the dangers of alcohol misuse.
Smashed has now been communities.
While not yet having a material we source, produce and sell.
impact, we have seen this in Brazil, where Creating a positive role for alcohol sugar cane farming for Ypica was affected operations.
We will report more information by lower rainfall, and in Cameroon, where in society, promoting inclusivity the sorghum we use for brewing was needed on this and measures to support resilience in and reducing environmental for food when adverse weather reduced the future, reinforcing our transparency on impacts are priorities owned by the harvest.
This is where our environmental climate change risks.
Our Water Blueprint defines our approach strategy, described in more detail on page 50, everyone at Diageo and a source is critical to our long-term business.
It prioritises the of pride for our employees.
All programmes reduce carbon emissions and water-stressed areas shown in the map our work is underpinned by a water use throughout our value chain, below.
Along with improving water efficiency, we are replenishing the water framework of policies that ensures alongside reductions in waste and packaging and the use of more sustainable packaging used in water-stressed areas, supporting we do business with integrity and materials.
We are investing further in water catchment area management to benefit all respect for human rights more efficiency and carbon reduction in key water users and helping farmers improve on page 55. water management in agriculture.
markets such as Scotland and East Africa, where water stress is particularly acute.
We are already integrating management of climateAlcohol in society related issues into our mainstream business The majority of people who choose to enjoy alcohol do so moderately and responsibly.
We are clear that we want to meet the demands of those consumers by offering Diageo sites located in water-stressed areas 35 them opportunities to drink better, not more.
27 33 We aim to be a leader in creating a positive 25 37 role for alcohol in society and in embedding 41 our commitment to promoting moderation 38 26 36 and tackling misuse in everything we do.
29 34 28 To achieve this, we work in partnership with 32 40 governments and industry organisations 30 39 around the world.
We do this to increase our 18 31 23 14 15 impact on reducing harmful drinking, 17 1 19 11 20 2 promoting moderation and advocating for 21 13 16 3 22 5 industry standards.
We focus on the most 7 24 12 material issues, where we can have the 9 10 4 6 greatest impact in reducing harm: drink 8 driving, underage drinking and excessive Sites drinking.
Our new strategy is in line with 1 Kenya Brewing, Nairobi 12 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania India 35 Pathankot, Punjab the United Nation's and the World Health 2 East Africa Maltings, 13 Mwanza, Tanzania 25 Alwar, Rajasthan 36 Pioneer, Maharashtra Organizations WHO goals of reducing Nairobi 14 UBL, Kampala, Uganda 26 Aurangabad, Maharashtra 37 Rosa, Uttar Pradesh 3 Seybrew, Seychelles 15 IDU, Kampala, Uganda 27 Baddi, Himachal Pradesh 38 Serampore, West Bengal harmful drinking by 10%.
It is described 4 SA Cider, South Africa 16 Accra, Achimota, Ghana 28 Baramati, Maharashtra 39 Sovereign, Karnataka 5 Phelindaba Brewery, 17 Kumasi, Kaasi, Ghana 29 Four Seasons Winery, 40 Tern, Andhra Pradesh in more detail on page 42.
South Africa 18 Ogba, Lagos, Nigeria Maharashtra 41 Udaipur, Rajasthan The beverage alcohol industry is highly 6 Butterworth Brewery, 19 Paraipaba, Cear, Brazil 30 Hospet, Karnataka South Africa 20 Agricultural lands, 31 Kumbalgodu, Karnataka regulated.
That regulation varies widely 7 Khangela Brewery, Cear, Brazil 32 Malkajgiri, Telangana between countries and jurisdictions.
We South Africa 21 Messejana, Brazil 33 Meerut, Uttar Pradesh 8 Isithebe, South Africa 22 Maracana, Brazil 34 Nacharam, Telangana comply with all laws and regulations, 9 Tlokwe, South Africa 23 Meta Abo, Ethiopia 10 Isipingo, South Africa 24 Marracuene, Mozambique wherever we operate, as a minimum 11 Moshi, Tanzania requirement.
We also advocate for laws
