Strategic report How we protect our business DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 Our approach How we protect our business Our risk management framework is simple.
We believe that great risk management starts with the right conversations to drive better business decisions.
We embed accountability for managing risk into our business Risk management and principal risks management structures.
Each market and Our Performance Ambition calls on us to be bold and to act like function undertakes an annual risk assessment, owners.
Well managed risk taking lies at the heart of this.
Great risk establishes mitigation plans and monitors their management drives better commercial decisions, creating a growing, risks.
Our Executive Audit and Risk Committee regularly receives reports on the risks faced resilient and sustainable business.
by the business and the effectiveness of risk management efforts.
Our Executive updates the groups risk assessment annually, and this Monitor and report Continuous review Monitor is independently reviewed by the Board.
and report Quality reporting Continually utilise our We ensure that significant business risks are enables great information to drive considered and escalated where appropriate Continuous discussion, which is insightful discussion and to our Executive and Board and we establish review at the heart of our effective decision making cross-functional working groups, and leverage risk management Mitigate RISK experts to ensure significant risks are approach MANAGEMENT effectively managed.
Identify Further details about the groups risk Identifying the risks our management approach are described in the business faces is the first Corporate Governance Report on page 64 Identify step in effective risk Assess and in the Report of the Audit Committee Mitigate management on page 68.
Taking actions to manage our key risks Assess Focus in the year Assessing the likelihood and impact of risks The Diageo Executive and Board considered to drive effective, prioritised mitigations the risks described here as the groups principal risks for this financial year, and also reviewed our risk appetite, which is the level Viability statement of risk we wish to take to achieve our strategic In accordance with the UK Corporate a failure to adapt to or participate fully objectives.
Governance Code, the Directors have in critical industry developments, and Our principal risks continue to respond assessed the viability of the group over the increased potential tax rate due to to a challenging external environment and, three years to 30 June 2021, considering our changes in the international tax although the majority of our risks remain current position and prospects, our strategy, environment.
consistent with last year, there are two notable the Boards risk appetite and our principal The principal risks considered in the most changes.
We have removed the Business risks as set out on pages 20 to 21 in the likely combination of downside scenarios Acquisitions risk as this was largely focused on Strategic report.
are identified with the symbol V on page the acquisition of United Spirits Limited USL.
Although the prospects of the company 20 to 21.
It has been more than three years since are considered over a longer period the None of these scenarios individually completion of this transaction and we are Directors believe that a three-year assessment threaten the viability of Diageo, therefore the comfortable that USL has been integrated is most appropriate as it aligns with our combined impact of these scenarios has been and that legacy risks are being appropriately normal three-year strategic business planning evaluated as the most severe stress scenario.
managed please refer to pages 143-146 for processes.
We have considered the risks presented further information on legacy risks.
We have The three-year business plan is based on by Brexit and at this stage do not perceive replaced this with a risk relating to product our current strategy.
This plan has been stress any material risk to the companys viability.
contamination: while this is not a new risk tested by modelling severe but plausible We will keep this under review as exit to Diageo, we have re-evaluated that the downside scenarios, and combinations of negotiations progress.
potential reputational impact of this risk scenarios, linked to our principal risks.
Key Stress testing considers the effectiveness of warrants its inclusion within the principal risks.
scenarios considered include: mitigation actions and internal control systems, Protectionism and local trade and severe marketing and or route to market makes certain assumptions about temporary regulatory policies have continued to lead restrictions or fiscal changes introduced reductions in discretionary spending including to excise tax increases and restrictive by local governments, capital expenditure and dividend payments regulations, and the attention being given to and considers whether additional financing material negative changes in the data privacy is heightened with the recent macro-economic environment that facilities would be required.
We could impact both developed and Based on the results of this analysis the continue to develop our risk planning work emerging markets, Directors confirm they have a reasonable around Brexit while retaining agility to expectation that the group will be able to changing political situations.
Despite this unfavourable exchange movements in continue in operation and meet its liabilities as challenging environment, we remain deeply foreign currencies, mainly the euro and they fall due over the period to 30 June 2021. committed to operating in the right way in US dollar against sterling, everything we do.
20 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 How we protect our business 1 2 3 4 Efficient growth Consistent value creation Credibility and trust Motivated people V Risk included in viability assessment Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2018 Regulators in major Comprehensive multi-year public policy The risks associated with protectionism and uncertainty in the 1.
Market markets impose plans in priority markets, regulatory policy international trading environment have increased, adding restrictions and indirect tax increases, risk tracking and evaluation, and pressure on tariffs, indirect taxation and regulation.
We believe trade barriers, and or economic modelling of tax, trade and we are well placed to manage these risks.
This year we have indirect tax restrictions on regulatory scenarios.
successfully mitigated threats and built momentum in our marketing and engagement with governments around the world to shape Fiscal pressures and or Company rollout of a new Alcohol in availability.
more balanced public policy outcomes.
failure to address perceived Society strategy supported by a fully growth in anti-alcohol Damage to our operational global industry platform to We have refined our public policy plans along with our ability V sentiment.
to monitor and evaluate the external environment and strengthened capability across the business in public affairs 1 2 3 Proactive, evidence-based engagement and alcohol policy.
to build trust and deepen our relationship and reputation with governments, We have moved with pace in delivering our Alcohol in Society industry and other stakeholders.
Dedicated training and capability building curriculum on indirect tax, trade and regulatory affairs, alcohol policy, campaigning and scenario planning.
Social unrest, liquidity Local and global market monitoring of Volatility, particularly in emerging markets, has been mainly 2.
Economic issues, generalised key business drivers to prepare for rapid driven by political or legislative issues, rather than GDP or change downturn, currency changes in external environment.
While the macro environment is arguably instability, inflationary currently more uncertain, we believe this risk remains stable as Strategic business reviews by CEO and Significant local volatility pressures, possible we continue to embed scenario planning at local and global other senior executives to review local or upheaval, uncertainty changes to customs levels to assess the potential impact of economic change to strategies.
or failure to react quickly duties and tariffs and strengthen our mitigation responses.
Multi-country investment and capacity enough to increasing or eroded consumer We are making better use of data to improve performance expansion strategy, and local sourcing volatility, including the confidence, prediction, using statistical techniques.
strategy e. g. to minimise currency risk.
impacting business Ongoing risk identification and mitigation planning to respond Cross-functional steering group to forecasting and or 1 2 to the risks associated with Brexit and the potential impact of monitor the risks of Brexit.
We have particular focus on identifying critical decision points to ensure potential operational disruption is effectively mitigated.
Consumers move Highly diversified portfolio of brands to The pace of industry developments and consumer trends 3.
Critical industry away from our brands ensure coverage of consumer occasions continues to speed up, increasing the risk that we fail to developments to alternative and price points.
respond quickly enough: despite this, we believe the products.
management of this risk remains strong.
Rigorous processes of strategy and Failure to shape or Suboptimal routes to innovation development at corporate We focus innovation on our strategic priorities through global participate in critical consumers and and market level.
brand extensions and new to world products, leveraging consumer, customer customers.
partnerships such as Distill Ventures.
Systematic review of emerging or competitor Less efficient business consumer and route-to-consumer trends We continue to build capabilities and business structures that V developments.
model compared to including potential disruptive enable us to be agile in responding to rapidly shifting 1 2 3 key competitors.
consumer trends, for example in digital commerce and marketing by investing in technology and tech partnerships.
Continuous assessment and optimisation of business efficiencies and investments.
Severe damage to our Code of Business Conduct and We continue to see new regulations come into force in a 4.
Noncorporate reputation supporting framework of policies number of countries in which we operate: however, this risk compliance and or significant and standards set out compliance remains stable as we manage these increasing requirements financial penalty.
with laws and Regular training, communications We have a programme of global e-Learning Code and policy regulations and engagement activities to embed training and engagement for all employees with integrated employee understanding.
compliance certification, and conduct face to face events for Non-compliance with employees with no computer access.
Risk based control assurance local laws or regulations, programme, with local management Further embedding of enhanced technology globally to or breach of our internal accountability.
support third party compliance processes, leveraging our global policies and shared service centre operations.
standards and or Robust programme of control assurance and refresher training significant internal for all Finance Directors on effective risk based control assurance.
1 2 3 4 Harm to future Sustainable Development strategy Our continued progress in achieving key environmental 5.
Sustainability growth either credible with stakeholders and set up metrics, and a strong position maintained with external and responsibility directly: or to deliver against 2020 targets.
stakeholders and benchmarking leads us to believe this risk remains stable.
Indirectly via Partnerships with Non Governmental Failure to manage key reputational impact Organisations i. e. CARE, WaterAid Human rights assessment programme extended to Colombia, sustainability risks or meet reducing trust in place.
Guatemala, India, Tanzania and UK.
amongst consumers Resource scarcity issues identified and Strengthening of our diversity and inclusion agenda within the 1 2 3 4 and other mitigated, agriculture programme business and in the wider value chain.
Brands with Purpose activity with key global brands, aligning Manufacturing standards programme sustainable development and alcohol in society strategies with including environmental performance, brand strategies.
with future activity on community water Development of Climate Change Risk Reporting.
Water Blueprint adoption in Ghana, India and Kenya to support water security.
Strategic report How we protect our business DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2018 Financial loss, Focus on insider threat by tightening Despite the increasing frequency of cyber attacks including 6.
Cyber threat operational privileged access to critical applications.
phishing, ransomware and potential disruptions to production disruption and operations, we believe, from regular benchmarking of our Theft, loss and Mandatory e-Learning and regular reputational damage.
mitigation actions against peers, that our approach to misappropriation phishing exercises to global workforce.
managing this risk is consistent with industry practice.
of our most important Experts perform intelligence-led, digital assets.
We are accelerating our investment in intelligence led threat proactive hunting and monitoring of analysis to better predict and proactively manage the most 1 2 3 4 threats.
serious threats, and continually improve our control Advanced malware detection and environment, including hiring a skilled cyber threat team.
We take a programmatic approach to deal with increased High risk market cyber stress tests cyber threat risks and continue to deliver employee awareness addresses security gaps used by campaigns and training to help identify appropriate sophisticated hackers.
Regular Red Team exercises to improve surveillance monitoring and response.
Diageo employees, In-country security managers overseeing Political violence risks are increasing globally, due to 7.
Political sites or supply chain people and physical security and above geopolitical tensions, a weakening of liberal democratic instability threatened and or market subject matter experts.
governance, and the repercussive effects of chronic conflicts harmed.
Terrorism risks are more diversified and Monitoring of local security situations.
and terrorism impact more countries in which we operate.
Our ability to operate Diageos global Business Continuity and Impacts from political in key markets is To manage this risk we undertake terrorism crisis simulation Crisis Management Framework.
exercises across various markets and have established quarterly Global travel security programme for all threats including terrorism.
1 3 4 Implementation of Diageo Incident Management Database Global and market liaison with to monitor security incidents and trends.
government, academia, and industry on Increased intelligence capacity through extra internal resource evolving threats and responding to and third party threat monitoring.
Harm to our Global Data Privacy programme with The introduction of GDPR in the EU on 25 May 2018 has 8.
Data privacy reputation with global data privacy policy, training and heightened awareness and scrutiny over the data privacy risk consumers, communication.
generally, which potentially increases the level of subject Breach of data protection customers and or access requests being made to organisations that hold laws or regulations.
Briefings to Board, Executive and other our people.
personal data, as well as the risk of complaints to regulators.
senior leadership on our General Data 1 2 3 4 Non-compliance with Protection Regulation GDPR Readiness We have a programme to enable us to implement processes data protection Programme.
to get to and maintain compliance with GDPR led by Diageos regulation.
Global Data Privacy Office: this causes us to believe that this Use of Privacy Impact Assessments in key risk is stable.
Significant financial risk areas of the business concerning the penalty of up to 4% proper use of data.
We have embedded a global incident response process to of global turnover.
identify, investigate, risk assess and respond effectively to any Risk assurance at a market and global personal information security incidents.
Increase in the cost Ongoing review of how our tax policy The international tax environment has been subject to increased 9. International of doing business applies to our business in light of scrutiny and change in recent years, increasing the overall levels of tax arising from an changing rules and stakeholder risk to business.
Investment by governments in the digitisation of tax Significant changes to effective and cash Monitoring and, where appropriate, administration will facilitate enhanced access to and analysis the international tax tax rates.
expressing views on the formulation of of our data, which is likely to increase audit activity.
environment such as the Changing tax laws tax laws either directly or through trade In common with other multi-nationals, we face continued scrutiny OECD Base Erosion and and audit activity associations or similar bodies.
from certain authorities into tax matters, as referred to in our Profit Shifting initiative lead to additional tax End-to-end review of our tax processes contingency liability note.
See also Note 18 to the Financial and EU anti-tax abuse exposures and to continually improve our tax control Statements on the current position with the notices previously measures alter our uncertainty.
received from HM Revenue & Customs.
We have submitted our Country-by-Country Report to the 1 2 3 necessary tax authorities.
We have updated our Global Tax Policy to clarify our strategy and approach to the management of taxes and tax risks globally.
Harm to consumers Food Safety System 22000 Certification This risk has been brought into our principal risks this year.
Product and or in place for owned brewing and However, this is not a new risk and we believe that our approach quality packaging sites, and third party site audit to ensuring compliance with all necessary food safety Our corporate and programme in place.
requirements and minimising the risk of malicious tampering brand reputation is Contamination of raw of our products while under our control are robust.
Physical security standards including materials or finished access control, CCTV and guarding and Strong programme of food safety controls, standards and product, or unsafe vetting procedures in place across our assurance activity.
Global Food Safety Initiative assurance counterfeit product is production sites.
strategy being rolled out across wholly owned breweries, supplied to the market.
packaging sites and key third party production sites.
Anti-counterfeiting measures embedded 2 3 into our packaging to ensure it cannot Food fraud risk assessments i. e. the risk of ingredient be reused.
substitution that creates a product quality risk regularly undertaken.
Application of unique lot-codes on all products for product recall requirements, Brand protection and anti-counterfeit activities focussed on high assured by Diageo Quality standards.
risk markets and technology to assist with product verification.
