16 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our strategy in action Our strategy in action These case studies demonstrate how we are putting our strategy into Keep premium core vibrant action at a market and global level.
They also show how our approach to sustainability and responsibility supports everything we do.
Proof in the pudding: Baileys treats making new connections In 2018, Baileys grew 6% globally.
In North Drive innovation at scale America, net sales were up 11% in 2018, following our new indulgent treat campaign.
Flushed with success: launch of Gordons Premium Pink Distilled Gin So what is the secret to its success?
Our driven by speed andscale insights told us that people around the world Launched in Iberia in May 2017, Gordons Pink claimed to love Baileys more than any other was launched in Great Britain just 10 weeks later, spirit, but there were simply fewer occasions supported by national media, digital and social on which to drink it.
To address this, we media content.
repositioned Baileys from liqueur to In the past, this kind of launch would have premium adult treat and have activated a taken around six months.
Agile work in our groundbreaking marketing and consumer supply chain and brand teams, combined with engagement campaign to support this a hothouse approach to cooperation between growing occasion.
departments, cut months from the launch Our work is underpinned by a deep process.
In September 2017, we launched in understanding of occasions, so we are Ireland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, reaching consumers in a range of trendBenelux and Denmark.
Most recently, we have Gordons Premium Pink Distilled Gin launched in leading ways.
We have created recipe videos summer 2017. launched in North America and Australia.
for our digital channels showcasing the In Great Britain, Gordons Pink was voted versatility of Baileys.
We have partnered with Product of the Year for the Alcohol category, Gordons Premium Pink Distilled Gin Gordons restaurants, bars and cafe chains to place in a Kantar TNS survey of 10,637 people.
It also Pink has become the most successful new Baileys on the menu as an indulgent end to spirits product development in Great Britain in received The Grocers Top Launch of the Year i a meal over ice, over ice-cream or in coffee.
in the Alcohol: Spirits category.
This is thanks to its consumer In supermarkets and retail stores, we have Gordons Pink removed plastic straws from appeal and improvements in the way we increased displays and cross-promoted Baileys all promotional materials at the end of 2017 and launch our innovations.
with key coffee and dessert brands.
Inspired by an original Gordons recipe is now only using paper straws.
More broadly, Innovations, such as Baileys Almande, are also Diageo announced a commitment to phase from the 1880s, Gordons Pink balances recruiting new consumers and creating new out the use of all plastic straws and stirrers from the refreshing taste of Gordons gin with occasions on which to enjoy Baileys.
all marketing globally and announced new the natural sweetness of raspberries and Altogether, our advertising, increased strawberries and the tang of redcurrant.
plastics reduction and recycling targets.
digital presence and food partnerships mean i Based on RSV in the first 14 weeks since launch in the off-trade only.
Data provided from Nielsen millions of consumers are not only enjoying Scantrack and dated back to 1 June 2007.
Baileys but are engaging with and sharing our content too.
In 2018, we offered consumers an accessible Continue to win in Reserve luxury gift beyond traditional beauty care and fragrances.
During the festive season, our Driving personal luxury team in Peru launched a Johnnie Walker Blue with Johnnie Walker Label pop-up store.
Consumers were treated to Johnnie Walker Blue Label mentoring and The nature of luxury has were able to engrave their Johnnie Walker continued to evolve: from the bottle with a personal message.
traditional western notion, driven In May, we also launched Johnnie Walker by behaviours and visual cues, My Edition in Great Britain and Spain.
This into a more modern luxury pilot programme aims to offer consumers a driven by experiences, and global cutting-edge, online whisky personalisation and local influences.
Through the website, consumers luxury can be for everyone.
are able to purchase exclusive whiskies based Mass luxury is key to our on personal flavour preferences, personalise reserve growth opportunity.
the label and engrave the bottle to create a Baileys has partnered with restaurants, bars and cafes One of the ways we are to put Baileys on the dessert menu.
delivering is through the gifting Net sales of Johnnie Walker Reserve and personalisation of Johnnie variants were up 8% in 2018.
Overall, scotch Walker Reserve variants.
net sales grew 2%, but there is more to do.
Strategic report Our strategy in action DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 Build an advantaged route to Embed productivity to drive out costs and invest in growth consumer: China New insights, new approach: transforming net revenue Premium scotch brands leading the management in India way toconsumers in South China Getting the best value we can from our promotions and trade spend what is known as net revenue management NRM is common sense.
But achieving a stepchange improvement in NRM has meant transforming our processes, systems, data and our peoples capabilities.
NRM is a key element of our productivity programme, which is focused on every day efficiency and driving out cost across our business.
Our overall productivity goal is to We are setting minimum activation standards for Our NRM programme has been rolled out to 11 of our deliver 700 million in savings, two thirds of our premium scotch brands in Guangdong and clusters in India.
which will be reinvested in the business, and 175bps in operating margin improvement we can improve effectiveness.
To date, we over the three years ending 30 June 2019.
We want spirits consumers in China to have implemented our NRM programme Our NRM work in India is a great example.
choose our premium and super premium in 11 of our clusters in India.
We have trained With 29 separate states, each with distinct sets scotch brands.
To achieve this, we identified over 100 people in the sales teams and of regulations for alcohol sales and promotion, two provinces in China, Guangdong and equipped them with the data they need India presents a complex picture on both Fujian, to further build our route to consumer to best focus their spend on brands and spend and value.
This amount of price capabilities in liquor stores.
regulation underscores the importance of Guangdong and Fujian have the highest We are just at the beginning of our NRM getting our trade promotion spend right.
penetration of foreign spirits consumption journey and are continuing to embed this Using customised dashboards, we are in China.
Focusing on Johnnie Walker Blue culture across our business.
ensuring that our data and analytics are Label, The Singleton and our malts portfolio, cutting edge and give us insight into where we trained our sales team and worked with local distributors and liquor outlets to set minimum activation standards for our Increase participation in mainstream spirits premium scotch brands.
Using data and insights, the sales team is now able to make Smirnoff X1: showing inclusive ambition in Nigeria real-time decisions to ensure we are reaching the right consumers with the right products Consumers in Nigeria demand high quality Chocolate vodka, the lead variant, is proving and that our brands are presented at their drinks and value for money.
We aim to meet popular and won a Silver Medal for Quality best at point of sale.
During sales calls, our this demand through global and local brands Recognition at the San Francisco World Spirits team is able to take images of displays.
Our at accessible price points, supported by local Competition in 2018. system logs the images and our central team sourcing and production.
Building on Smirnoff has also extended its Were is able to evaluate and better determine the Guinness Nigerias reputation for quality Open platform in Nigeria.
Were Open aims best sales drivers.
and innovation, and the route to consumer to promote inclusivity and bring people Additionally, during occasions such as network of our beer business, we are reaching together using experiences, great drinks and the Mid-Autumn Festival and Chinese consumers who choose to drink, through music to break down barriers and stereotypes.
New Year, we are recruiting and re-recruiting mainstream spirits.
These grew double digit in Johnnie Walker Blue Label customers Nigeria this year, underpinned by innovation through personalisation and gifting.
This year, we have seen sales of scotch in Launched in fiscal 2017, Smirnoff X1 is a mainland China grow strong double digit great example of how we are increasing spirits driven by Johnnie Walker and The Singleton.
participation by leveraging our international trademarks.
Over the past 18 months, our sales teams in Nigeria have been working with local outlets to introduce consumers to the vodka category.
Currently, Smirnoff X1 is available in more than 30,000 on-trade outlets and we have sampled our perfect serve with lemonade in 1,700 outlets.
Smirnoff X1 Intense 18 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our strategy in action Creating a positive role for alcohol Building thriving communities: Cameroon in society: global Promoting moderation and tackling Finding inclusive ways to grow: working with farmers in Cameroon misuse: Drink Positive Working with the farmers who grow our ingredients is a vital part of ensuring we have a resilient, sustainable supply chain.
Its also an opportunity to support the communities around us through inclusive programmes that promote the aims of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and strengthen our business.
As part of our local sourcing programme, we are working through partners with over We are proud of producing some of the 4,500 sorghum farmers in Cameroon to help worlds best alcoholic drinks and of the fact them increase their yields through improved that millions of people enjoy our brands farming practices and irrigation.
At the same responsibly and in moderation.
At the same time, we are helping to improve community and sanitation, particularly for women and time, we know that harmful drinking causes access to drinkable water, increase awareness children, installing two new water pumps to individuals and communities significant of good sanitation, build local management serve 6,500 people.
An additional 150 women problems so creating a positive role for of water, and enhance peoples skills, with are benefiting from water-related economic alcohol in society has always been vitally a particular emphasis on womens activities, including gardening and selling important to everyone in our business.
In both programmes, We have consistently invested in global In North Cameroon, our partnership with training and empowering local people to programmes which encourage responsible the Sahel Espoir co-operative in the two manage and maintain their community assets drinking, reduce drink driving, and seek to villages of Mindjil and Garey has led to a new are key elements.
create a positive role for alcohol in society.
irrigation system and new boreholes to We want our programmes to have real This year we launched a new strategy to create provide access to water for 10,000 people.
impact, increasing the resilience of our even greater impact through our programmes, In the village of Fotouni in West Cameroon, communities and supply chains.
as described on pages 42-44. we are working with the NGO, ANDP At the same time, we have never lost sight Environment, to improve access to safe water of the vital role that our employees play in promoting moderation and tackling misuse Reducing our environmental impact: India as ambassadors for our brands, and within their own work and home communities.
Saving water, saving costs: water recycling in India In October 2017 we launched our new Drink Positive campaign, aimed at highlighting Water is essential to our business and to 500,000 cubic metres of water a year the role that everyone at Diageo can play the people and ecosystems around us.
That enough to fill 200 Olympic swimming pools.
Drink Positive means responsible water stewardship is a This water reuse has led to a 35% reduction communicates how employees are promoting strategic priority especially in areas of water in water extraction, which is good for the moderation and tackling misuse, and includes stress, where factors such as drought and long-term sustainability of our business and training resources such as DRINKiQ, our alcohol climate change have their greatest impact.
the local water catchment and community.
education tool, to help engage employees In India, an acutely water-stressed region, It has also had immediate fiscal benefits, by and to support them to engage others.
weve developed a comprehensive local saving more than 1 million in costs resulting The creative, integrated campaign involves strategy to conserve water.
This supports from a new state water tariff.
social media, office takeovers, global and local our global targets for 2020 of reducing Lunch and Learn events, online training, the amount of water we use, returning leaders from the business sharing their wastewater safely to the environment and commitment to help people to Drink Positive, replenishing the total water used in our and much more.
Through Drink Positive, weve final product.
reached all of our employees nearly 30,000 A recent programme of investments in with the facts, information and inspiration that our distilleries in Maharashtra state has driven will help them become Drink Positive further improvements.
We have installed ambassadors within our business and beyond new water-recycling equipment, including and our Values Survey showed that 93% ultra-filtration followed by reverse osmosis of employees agreed that Diageo is effective systems at our Nasik, Aurangabad and Pioneer in promoting a balanced role for alcohol sites.
This has enabled us to re-use up to in society.
