64 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT This section contains information which the Directors are i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office required by law and regulation to include within the Annual ofthe Company or any other place as the Board may decide Report & Accounts.
The Directors who held office during the accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred yearare set out on pages 36 and 37. and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: SHAREHOLDERS ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person Incorporation and principal activity who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England and or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
At the date of this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in issue, all of Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertified share in accordance with the regulations governing The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised the operation of CREST.
A description and review of the activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication Participants in the Companys Performance Share Plan the of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 35: the Strategic PSP, who have yet to meet shareholding guidelines, have Report on pages 1 to 35 incorporates the requirements of the vested PSP shares held in trust until the earlier occurrence of Companies Act 2006 the Act.
them meeting their required shareholder guideline or for a period of two years, during which period these shares cannot be Annual General Meeting transferred to them.
There are no other restrictions on the The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at midday on transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain Wednesday, 16 January 2019 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and Square, London EC2V 7HR.
The Notice of the AGM, which is a regulations for example insider trading laws : or where a separate document, will be sent to all shareholders and will be shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys published on the Diploma PLC website.
certified shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning Substantial shareholdings interests in those shares.
At 16 November 2018, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights Shares held by the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust in its ordinary share capital: While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma PLC Employee Percentage Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are of ordinary exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary share capital duties.
The Trustees of the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust also waive dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the Standard Life Aberdeen plc 8.01 Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 7.26 Mawer Investment Management Ltd 6.49 Share allotment Royal London Group 5.44 A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in Blackrock, Inc 3.30 specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro-rata to Fidelity Management & Research Co 3.16 existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions Norges Bank Investment Management 3.03 approved at the AGM of the Company held on 17 January 2018.
In the year ended 30 September 2018, the Company has not allotted As far as the Directors are aware, there were no other interests any shares.
These powers will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 above 3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
AGM and resolutions to renew the Directors powers are therefore included within the Notice of the AGM in 2019.
Share capital The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as Authority to make market purchases of own shares the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be the Directors by a special resolution at the AGM of the Company obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are available on held on 17 January 2018.
In the year to 30 September 2018 the the Companys website.
Company has not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM and a resolution to The Company is not aware of any agreements between renew the authority is therefore included within the Notice of the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of AGM in 2019. securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
The Companys Articles of Association may be There is no information to be disclosed by the Company in amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
4R, except for: Restrictions on transfer of shares Long Term Incentive Plan details of the LTIP awarded to The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated Richard Ingram on 15 May 2018 in connection with his share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not appointment as Chief Executive Officer is set out on page 56 prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on of the Remuneration Committee Report.
This award lapsed on an open and proper basis, or where the Company has lien over 28 August 2018 when Richard Ingram stood down as Chief that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of Executive Officer and left the Company: and a certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer is: The Employee Benefit Trust has waived dividends on all shares held.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in Results and dividends accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders was Standards UK Accounting Standards including FRS101 Reduced 53.8m 2017: 47.5m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend Disclosures Framework.
of 17.8p per ordinary share 2017: 16.0p, to be paid, if approved, on 23 January 2019.
This, together with the interim dividend of The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as 7.7p 2017: 7.0p per ordinary share paid on 13 June 2018 amounts adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the to 25.5p for the year 2017: 23.0p.
performance of the Group: the Act provides in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are statements on pages 66 to 93 and summarised in the Finance references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial Auditor statements, the Directors are required to: Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report & Accounts confirms that so far as the Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the consistently: Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to for the Group financial statements, state whether they have make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Companies Act 2006. the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis,  LLP PwC has expressed its unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the willingness to continue in office as Independent Auditor and a Parent Company will continue in business.
resolution to re-appoint PwC will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 January 2019.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Directors assessment of going concern Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable affect its future development, performance and position are set them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35.
The financial position They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 26 to 29.
In prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
addition, pages 79 to 81 of the Annual Report & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its of the corporate and financial information included on the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the credit risk and liquidity risk.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different Directors Responsibility Statement geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: agreements.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully as the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in described further on pages 30 to 33. accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Parent Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK The Group also has a committed multi-currency revolving bank Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, facility of 30.0m with an accordion option to increase the liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Parent committed facility by a further 30.0m up to a maximum of Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 60.0m.
This facility expires on 31 May 2020, with an option to taken as a whole: extend the facility to 31 May 2022.
At 30 September 2018, the the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of the Group had cash funds of 36.0m and had no borrowings.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern balanced and understandable and provide the information basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Directors on 19 November 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
NP Lingwood JE Nicholas Group Finance Director Chairman Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Registered office: law the Directors are required to prepare Group financial 12 Charterhouse Square statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European London Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected EC1M 6AX
