COMMITTEE REPORTS Audit Committee report GREGOR STEWART Membership, attendance and responsibilities of CHAIR OF THE AUDIT theCommittee can be found on pages 67 and 68.
COMMITTEE Areas of focus in the reporting period Main activities during the year The Committee reviewed how, International Financial At each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee received Reporting Standard IFRS IFRS 17 Insurance reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal controls and Contracts, which relates to recognition, measurement, Group Audit, except at the December 2018 meeting where presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts, is thefocus was on pre-year-end financial matters.
You can find expected to apply to the Group for annual reporting out more about this in the following sections.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022.
It is Financial reporting expected to have a significant impact on accounting The Committee considered the integrity of the Group forinsurance contracts.
The Committee received training financialstatements and all external announcements relating dedicated to the key aspects of IFRS 17 and the likely toits financial performance.
In 2018, this included the areas of impact on the Group.
Groups2017 Annual Report & Accounts, the Solvency and The Group initiated a change programme to transition Financial Condition Report and its 2018 Half Year Report.
As part of the programme the The Committee followed a review process before Groups ledger system will be upgraded.
The change recommending the reports to the Board which focused on programme will review finance processes to deliver thechoice and application of significant accounting policies, operational benefits alongside the transition to IFRS 17. emphasising those requiring a major element of estimation The Board delegated oversight of the changes orjudgement.
Thereview also considered the going concern tothefinancial reporting system to the Committee.
assumptions and viability statement in the Annual Report & Throughout 2018 the Committee received updates on Accounts, valuation of assets and impairment reviews, reserving theprogramme and the implications of the new IFRSs provisions, non-recurring period-specific transactions and clarity onthe financial statements.
The impact of the change in the methodology for setting The Committee reviewed and concluded that the Annual the Ogden discount rate on reserves following the Civil Report& Accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced and Liability Act 2018 receiving Royal Assent and the related understandable and provided sufficient information to enable sensitivity analysis were considered by the Committee.
the reader to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Committee skills and experience When considering the 2018 Annual Report & Accounts, Gregor Stewart was appointed Chair of the Committee in May theCommittee focused on the significant judgements and 2018.
In line with the Code, all members of the Committee are issueswhich could be material to the financial statements.
independent, and the Audit Committee as a whole is deemed These included the matters set out in the table on page 77. to have competence relevant to the insurance and financial The Committee challenged the judgements being made services sectors in which the Group operates.
andalso discussed these matters with the External Auditor.
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, with the Reserves exception of Gregor Stewart who is a member of the Institute The Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions ofChartered Accountants of Scotland.
They also have recent and judgements, emerging trends, movements and analysis and relevant financial experience across a number of different ofuncertainties underlying the estimate of reserves.
These insurance businesses, enabling them to contribute diverse assumptions and judgements are informed by actuarial expertise to the Committees proceedings.
To keep their skills analysis, wider commercial and risk management insights, current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members andprinciples of consistency from period to period.
After ofthe Committee have received training during the period on reviewing the reserves, the Committee recommends them matters including IFRS 17 and solvency II technical provisions.
76 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant issues Matter considered Description Action Insurance The Committee reviewed the level of reserves of the Group.
As part In 2018, the Committee reservesvaluation ofits review, the Committee considered the estimate of reserves, taking reviewed and challenged the into account certain trends and risks as well as management judgement level of reserves.
In addition, where higher confidence, knowledge and experience can be applied.
itmonitored developing trends The Committee also obtained insight from an independent actuarial in risks that could materially review of the reserves.
Further information on reserves is provided impact them.
On an ongoing onpages 76 and 77. basis it received updates from the Actuarial Director on how estimates of reserves matched the claims paid.
Ogden discount rate The Committee considered the process, estimates and judgements The Audit Committee made in recommending the new Ogden discount rate.
The Civil approved the Actuarial Liability Act 2018 received Royal Assent on 20 December 2018.
Directors proposal to change TheAct details how the UK Government will set the rate used in the the rate used in assessing the assessment of damages for large bodily injury claims.
The Actuarial level of reserves.
In addition, Director considered the new discount rate setting process, after looking the Committee reviewed at information published by the UK Government on the factors which theimplementation process.
would be considered when the new rate was set.
The Actuarial The application of the new Directorproposed that the rate used by the Group in assessing reserving rate led to a release the level of reserves be changed from minus 0.75% to 0%.
TheCommittee continues to monitor the factors that impact the Ogden discount rate and a new rate will be set in accordance with the Act bythe middle of 2019.
Valuation of The Committee considered reports on the estimates and judgements In 2018, the Committee investments not applied to the carrying value of the Groups investments that are not considered major accounting held at fair value held at fair value and the basis for the valuation.
These assets are estimates and judgements principally comprised of infrastructure loans, commercial real estate inrespect of assets held at loans and private placement bonds held within the investment portfolio.
fairvalue and was satisfied Information was provided to the Committee on a regular basis to withthe carrying value of support the value recognised in the accounts.
investments and the basis fortheir valuation.
Valuation of The Committee considered the valuation of intangible assets.
In 2018, the Committee intangibleassets Thesemainly related to investment in the Groups IT systems and considered major accounting capabilities in respect of projects which are aimed at improving estimates and judgements in thedigital offering, customer experience and operational efficiency.
respect of the valuation of Reports were presented to the Committee covering the assumptions intangible assets and was andjudgements made in arriving at a valuation of these assets.
satisfied that the assets didnotwarrant any furtherimpairment.
The Committee also considered an appropriate Internal control and Group Audit balancebetween internal and external actuarial review.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the adequacy Anexternal actuarial review of the reserves was carried out andeffectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
 LLP PwC for the Directors of the TheGroups financial reporting control framework is part of the Company.
The appointment of consultants to provide actuarial wider internal controls system.
It addresses financial reporting reviews of reserves is subject to approval by the Committee.
The Board delegates supervision of the framework to the Committee while the CFO is responsible for the frameworks operation on a day-to-day basis.
During 2018, the Committee received regular reports on control deficiencies, compensating controls and the mitigating actions taken by management.
CO. UK 77 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee oversees Group Audits work and seeks External audit toensure industry best practice is adopted appropriately.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte has served as the Companys Auditor TheGroup Head of Audits primary reporting line is to the since 2000.
Before listing, the Group was audited by Deloitte Chair of the Committee.
The secondary reporting line, for as a division of RBS Group.
The Committee is responsible for day-to-day administration, is to the CFO.
Group Audit provides overseeing the External Auditor and agreeing the audit fee, the Committee with independent and objective reports on the aswell as approving the scope of the External Auditors adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk annualplan.
The Committee approves The current audit partner is Mr Colin Rawlings, FCA, who Group Audits annual plan and receives quarterly reports wasfirst appointed for the 2016 audit.
The Committee has detailing internal audit activity, key findings, management reviewed the latest public report on Deloitte, issued by the FRC responses, and proposed action plans.
Group Audit also Audit Quality Review Team, and has discussed the findings monitors that the most significant actions are completed.
with Mr Rawlings and made enquiries as to how those findings TheCommittee approves the Group Audit Charter, which relevant to the Group have been addressed.
The Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team During 2018, following a tender process, the Committee reviewed the audit of the 2017 financial statements of the appointed PwC to carry out an external quality assessment Groups principal subsidiary as part of their 2018 annual ofGroup Audit in accordance with guidelines issued by inspection of audit firms.
The inspection covered selected theChartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
The scope of aspects of the audit and focused on identifying areas where theassessment was to assess Group Audit against the CIIA improvements were required.
The Committee received a full requirements, including the Effective Internal Audit in Financial copy of the report and noted that there were no areas for Services Code in the Financial Sector and best practice.
In addition, the AQR team identified Theassessment concluded that the function has achieved the areas of good practice within the audit areas they reviewed.
highest rating of compliance with CIIA standards and the CIIA Having considered the report and discussed it with the audit Financial Services Code.
A number of recommendations were partner, the Committee was satisfied that there was nothing made by PwC to support the function in continuing to evolve noted which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
and keep pace with the future challenges and expectations it faces both internally and externally.
The Committee endorsed External Auditor tenure the report and recommendations for continuing improvement During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its and the findings have been incorporated into an action plan.
external audit services contract and examined a number of Inaddition, the Committee concluded that the function had options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, appropriate resources.
including the mandatory rotation of the Groups audit firm.
Thistook into account the reforms of the audit market by the Additional information Competition and Markets Authority and the EU, under which The Committee has unrestricted access to management and Deloitte can continue as the Companys External Auditor until external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that 31 December 2023.
The Committee considered whether it in 2018 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information was appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the toperform its responsibilities effectively.
year ending 31 December 2020 and concluded it was not The Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, External appropriate.
The Committee also confirmed that it will continue Auditor and Group Head of Audit meet privately with the to comply with the regulations governing auditor rotation.
AuditCommittee, in the absence of management.
When considering the timing of the external audit tender, The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee theCommittee took into account the Groups ongoing change meeting to the subsequent Board meeting.
programmes including the implementation of a new general ledger, the use of consultants employed by auditing firms in connection with those programmes, audit partner rotation, theimpact of IFRS 17 and the best interests of shareholders.
Following an assessment of all the factors, the Committee decided that it was not appropriate to tender the external auditcontract at this time.
The Committee will review the position on an annual basis, but currently anticipates tendering the audit contract after the implementation of IFRS 17 for the 2023 year end to ensure the broadest choice of firms.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of External Auditor.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and AuditCommittee Responsibilities Order 2014.
78 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor independence and non-audit services policy Effectiveness of the external audit process and re-appointing Deloitte as External Auditor The Group has a Minimum Standard in relation to Independence of External Auditors.
This establishes parameters for preventing In 2018, the Committee assessed the External Auditors or mitigating anything that compromises the External Auditors effectiveness.
This was in addition to regularly questioning the independence or objectivity.
The Minimum Standard includes External Auditor during its meetings.
The Committee assessed aformal process for the approval of non-audit services by the the External Auditor through: External Auditor.
i a detailed questionnaire completed by key stakeholders: During the year the Committee reviewed the non-audit services ii discussing matters with the CFO: that could be provided by the External Auditor.
It was agreed iii formally reviewing the External Auditors independence: that, in order to protect the independence of the External Auditor, generally on an on going basis non-audit services iv assessing whether the agreed audit plan was fulfilled: and should not be provided unless there is a strong, clear and v consideration of the FRCs review of the audit of the understandable business reason.
The Committee is satisfied Groups principal subsidiary.
thatthe Group has adequate procedures to ensure that the External Auditors are independent and objective.
After taking into account all of the information available, theCommittee concluded that Deloitte had performed its During the year, the Committee approved fees of 0.7 million obligations effectively and appropriately as External Auditor to Deloitte for services unrelated to audit work.
isa breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte for the year ended The Committee recommended to the Board that the Group 31 December 2018. re-appoint Deloitte as External Auditor.
The Group will put a Fees m Proportion resolution regarding this to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
1 Audit fees 1.9 70% The Board reviewed and approved this report on 4 March 2019.
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 4% Other assurance services 0.1 4% Non-audit fees 0.6 22% Total fees for audit and other services 2.7 100% GREGOR STEWART Note: CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 1.
Further information is disclosed in note 10 to the consolidated financialstatements.
The non-audit fee of 0.6 million related primarily to assuranceactivities on IT projects in relation to the developmentof new systems.
CO. UK 79 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED Board Risk Committee report JANE HANSON Membership, attendance and responsibilities of CHAIR OF THE BOARD theCommittee can be found on pages 67 and 68.
RISK COMMITTEE Areas of focus in the reporting period Main activities during the year As the Group continues with its IT transformation Risk monitoring and oversight programme, the Committee reviewed progress against At each scheduled meeting, the Committee received a the plans at each meeting.
In 2018, the Committee reportfrom the Chief Risk Officer which provided an overview received and challenged reports from management and assessment of the Groups risk profile.
It detailed the key onthe programme plans and considered how these activities undertaken by the Risk function to further embed risk would achieve the planned benefits for customers.
management across the Group, provided outputs of regular risk TheCommittee probed and challenged all aspects monitoring and details of specific risk issues.
The Committee oftheprogramme including the governance, key risks also received details of the Groups current and  and progress reporting.
The Committee looking solvency position.
The Committee received regular obtained objective views from the Risk and Group Audit reports regarding the three strategic risk appetite statements: functions on the programmes progress at each meeting maintain capital adequacy: stable and efficient access to and commissioned a series of external specialist reviews funding and liquidity: and maintain stakeholder confidence.
to obtain assurance on the approach being taken.
The Committee monitored the Groups exposure against In March 2018, members of the Committee and theserisk appetite statements and the lower level risk appetite management participated in a strategy session, which statements, considered key risk indicators and assessed the key considered macro risks and the role of the Committee.
drivers that affected status against risk appetite.
The Committee The session reviewed developments in areas such as the reviewed and questioned the justification of the assessment of global economy and the impacts of US and UK fiscal certain risks and the robustness of management action plans to policy, Brexit and the potential impacts on the insurance address areas close to or outside tolerance.
Committee members considered market and the oversight of change risk was a central focus for the regulatory developments, as well as the development Committee, which challenged management on progress andmeasurement of risk culture, taking into account ofboth the portfolio and individual programmes.
theGroups ongoing initiatives in these areas.
In light ofthese discussions, the Committee considered its own Risk management and controls role with the aim of ensuring continued alignment with The Committee monitored the Groups risk management and the key risks facing the Group.
internal control systems, and reviewed their effectiveness.
This The Committee considered medium to long-term risks to covered all material risks, including financial, operational and the Group to gain assurance that management is taking compliance.
The Committee reviewed the residual risk position timely actions to manage risks.
The Committee received after the operation of controls and considered the effectiveness reports from management on the emerging risks the of any associated mitigating actions and compensating Group faces and evaluated how the Group could be controls.
The monitoring and review by the Committee involved affected by potential developments.
During the year, examining an assessment of the control environment and theCommittee reviewed all key risks in the Emerging material controls at Group level, based on divisional risk RiskRegister, focusing particularly on political and andcontrol self-assessments.
These assessments had been economic risks, and considered the impacts of subject to challenge by the Risk and Group Audit functions.
autonomous technology on the motor market.
The Material Risk Register Committee considered climate change and its impact The Committee assessed the principal risks facing the Group, both on the Groups current book of business and the which are listed on pages 46 and 47.
The Committee Groups longer-term strategy.
achieved this by reviewing and challenging the Groups The Committee considered risks relating to the Groups Material Risk Register in the context of the Groups risk appetite conduct towards its customers.
During the year the and through consideration of the risk assessment contained in Committee reviewed the key themes and topics from the Chief Risk Officers report that was discussed at each theGroups Customer Conduct Committee, which scheduled meeting.
werefocused on complaints improvement, vulnerable customers, and improved oversight of offshore and supplier performance.
The Committee undertook a deepdive into pricing rating factors including the pricingprinciples and policies currently in place.
Thisarea will be closely monitored giving considerationto appropriate regulatory expectations.
80 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Assessment of risk behaviours and attitudes The Committee reviewed regular updates on regulatory developments and interactions, particularly in relation to The Committee reviewed the annual Assessment of Risk theFCA and PRA.
The Committee also reviewed the actions Behaviours and Attitudes undertaken jointly by the Risk being undertaken to ensure compliance with the SM&CR, andGroup Audit functions, which covered areas including: which included a comprehensive review of the Groups High tone from the top: decision-making: and risk management Level Control and System of Governance Framework document framework.
The Committee discussed the outputs of the andupdating the detailed management responsibilities map.
assessment, as well as areas for further improvement, seeking Theregime, which came into effect on 10 December 2018, to ensure the appropriateness of the actions identified.
The now covers employees who are considered to be performing Committee also considered the activities of the Risk functionin functions which are of specific importance to the sound and driving a good risk culture across the Group through mechanisms prudent management of the firm.
The Committee considered such as training and its internal communications strategy.
regular reports on the Groups actions to prevent financial Additionally, the Committee considered other subjects in more crime, including reviewing the annual Financial Crime Report.
detail at each scheduled meeting.
These included: compliance The Committee has closely monitored developments from and regulatory risk including oversight of the Groups regulatory theFCA and the Competition and Markets Authoritys work relationships: operational risk: financial risk, solvency II and onpricing practices and will remain apprised of the review capital model: and risk governance.
throughout 2019 as well as of the actions which are being Customer and conduct undertaken with the aim of ensuring that the Group continues The Group aims to make insurance much easier and better tomaintain fair pricing principles.
These actions broadly value for its customers by delivering on its commitments, fixing fallinto three categories: governance and accountability: things when they go wrong and ensuring that fairness is a oversight including data and management information : natural outcome of what the Group does.
In order to help andvulnerable customers.
achieve these aims, the Customer Conduct Committee reviews, Operational risk challenges and oversees customer and conduct matters across The Committee continued to review and challenge IT controls, the Group.
The purpose of the Customer Conduct Committee including those relating to IT systems stability, cyber security isto help ensure that the desired outcomes are achieved for and technology resilience.
The Committee assessed the level theGroups customers.
The Customer Conduct Committees ofprevention, protection and detection controls in relation to findings and any recommendations for improvement are cyber risk and the residual risk for each of the IT control areas, provided to the Committee and Board on a regular basis.
taking into account any compensating controls and or The Committee reviewed and challenged reports relating to the mitigating actions.
The Committee challenged the progress Groups conduct towards its customers, seeking assurance that made in relation to technology risk, in particular to ensure customer outcomes were fair and appropriate and to determine thatplans were in place to ensure the Group took action that the Group was operating within its defined conduct risk whereIT hardware was due to reach the end of its useful appetite, as set by the Board.
lifeorwould no longer be supported.
The Committee also The Committee undertook a deep dive which focused on rating reviewed IT risk appetite statements to gain assurance that factors, governance and pricing practices.
The Committee these were appropriate and in line with the overarching challenged management in order to gain assurance that the Grouprisk appetite.
pricing principles and policies in place were fit for purpose The Committee received regular updates on the Groups and remained fair to customers.
The Committee will monitor multi-year transformation programmes.
The Committee received closely any changes to regulators expectations.
detailed updates following external reviews of the programmes and challenged management on the progress which had been Compliance and regulatory risk made so far, as well as on the plans going forward.
The During the year, the Committee considered the Groups Committee continued to monitor and examine the oversight compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct andchallenge of the major change initiatives by the Risk andfinancial crime.
The Committee approved the annual function and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work Compliance Plan which sets out the compliance activities which undertaken bythe Risk function and Group Audit.
will be undertaken in the coming year with the objectives of: i ensuring compliance: ii maintaining an open and co-operative The Committee also considered operational risks and controls relationship with regulators: and iii ensuring the Board and in respect of third-party suppliers, operational resilience and employees understand their regulatory responsibilities.
offshoring, with the aim of ensuring that these risks were being managed appropriately by management and actions taken The Committee continued to monitor and challenge the where necessary.
Groupsplans for compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation which came into force on 25 May 2018.
Following its introduction, the Committee received assurance that the programme had successfully implemented the strategyfor compliance and that activity to further enhance theprogramme would be built into the existing compliance strategy.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the outputs from conduct and compliance assurance reviews, including inrelation to solvency II compliance.
CO. UK 81 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED BOARD RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial risk Anti-bribery and corruption At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Groups Annually, the Committee considers an anti-bribery and performance against its capital risk appetite through the Chief corruption report, which includes an annual risk assessment Risk Officers report.
Committee members considered financial ofthe level of anti-bribery and corruption risk to the Group.
risks in the strategic plan against risk appetite.
Committee Following review and challenge, the Committee was satisfied members also reviewed and challenged the ORSA process that the Groups policies and procedures on anti-bribery and andkey content before the report was submitted for approval corruption were fit for purpose and that anti-bribery and to the Board.
Committee challenges on elements of the ORSA corruption risks were managed appropriately.
during the year included those in relation to stress testing of the Additional information strategic plan, pricing and underwriting risk, internal model The Committee has unrestricted access to management and validation activity and the appropriateness of contingent external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that management actions.
in 2018 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and toperform its responsibilities effectively.
scenario testing plan prioritising the importance of certain In addition to monthly one-to-one meetings with the Chair, scenarios.
The Committee also examined the outputs of the theChief Risk Officer also met privately with the Committee budget stress tests and the associated management actions, without management being present.
where necessary, required to keep the Group within capital riskappetite.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent Board meeting.
Throughout the year the Committee received reports on the internal model, including independent validation results and The Board reviewed and approved this report on 4 March 2019. theinternal model owners report.
This outlined the scope of the capital model, key outputs, risk drivers, significant parameters, expert judgements and key assumptions.
The Committee challenged management on the assumptions in relation to JANE HANSON thereinsurance decision-making process in the context of the CHAIR OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Groups risk appetite as a result of reviewing the internal model owners report.
Risk governance Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which includes details of the Groups Policies and Minimum Standards.
The Committee reviewed and challenged each Group Policy as part of the Groups solvency II requirements and recommended them for approval by the Board.
The Committee also considered the results of the annual Group assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control environment undertaken by each business division, as well as monitoring controls on an ongoing basis.
The Committee considered, challenged and approved the Annual Risk and Compliance operational plan and the adequacy and objectivity of the Risk functions resources.
Whistleblowing The Committee reviewed the arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing.
The Committee also reviewed reports relating to whistleblowing including individual cases, anonymised to ensure arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee probed management and was satisfied that the whistleblowing process met the necessary standards and that it was adequately designed, operated effectively and adhered to regulatory requirements.
82 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee report MICHAEL BIGGS Membership, attendance and responsibilities of CHAIR OF THE theCommittee can be found on pages 67 and 68.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Board composition Areas of focus in the reporting period During the year, the Committee: considered the Boards skills During 2018, the majority of the Committees time and experience: reviewed the structure, size and composition wasdevoted to monitoring and recommending changes of the Board: reviewed the membership and chairmanship to the composition of the Board and its Committees.
ofthe Boards Committees: and reviewed NEDs letters of TheCommittee led the recruitment of three independent appointment, terms of appointment and time commitment.
NEDs and reviewed the skills and experience that the The letters of appointment for the Chairman and NEDs set Board needs to be able to challenge and support outthe time the Group anticipates that they will commit to seniormanagement in developing and executing theirroles.
This is at least three days a week for the Chairman theGroups strategy.
and an average of three days a month for the other NEDs Following the announcement that Paul Geddes will be depending on business needs.
stepping down as CEO of the Group in the summer of The Committee guides management in executive succession 2019, the Committee launched an internal and external planning.
Further information on how the Group develops search for his successor.
ourtalent pipeline can be found on page 73.
With the aim of improving gender and other diversity inthe Groups senior management, the Committee Board and Committee changes continued to encourage management to grow its On 1 March 2018, Mark Gregory and Gregor Stewart joined talentpipeline, both by developing existing employees the Board as NEDs and Penny James assumed responsibility as and by hiring new talent.
This is being achieved Chief Financial Officer.
John Reizenstein and Andrew Palmer bythesystematic assessment of potential, bespoke retired from the Board following the conclusion of the 2018 personalcoaching and development plans for AGM and, on 1 September 2018, Fiona McBain joined high-potential employees.
The Committee monitors the membership of the Boards Main activities during the year Committees to ensure that each Committee has a suitable balance of skills as well as taking into consideration the CEO succession lengthof service of the members.
At the time of the announcement that Paul Geddes would step Following the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, it was agreedthat down as CEO in the summer of 2019, the Committee revisited Gregor Stewart be appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee the succession plan for the Board and launched the process and a member of the Risk Committee.
Mark Gregory was ofidentifying his successor, which included refreshing the role appointed Chair of the Investment Committee and a member profiles, taking into account the Groups medium and long-term ofthe Audit Committee and Penny James was appointed as strategic and cultural leadership requirements, and the selection amember of the Investment Committee.
Danuta Gray was and appointment of external executive search specialists.
appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee in place of The Committee appointed MWM Consulting, which is a Clare Thompson.
Clare remained a member of the Committee.
signatory to the Volutary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, to lead the search and engaged Egon Zehnderand YSC Board appointment process Consulting to assist with the evaluation ofthecandidates.
The The Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending appointed specialists have no other connection to the Company.
to the Board any changes as necessary.
During the year, The Committee considered a diverse long list prepared by theCommittee oversaw the formal, rigorous and transparent MWM and, having agreed ashortlist, interviewed a number process which resulted in the appointments of Mark Gregory, ofinternal and external candidates.
Following a thorough Gregor Stewart and Fiona McBain as NEDs.
interview and assessment programme and having obtained For each of their appointments, the Committee produced a regulatory approval, the Committee recommended Penny detailed brief setting out the required skills and experience Jamesas its preferred candidate.
The Board accepted the ofpreferred candidates which included significant financial recommendation andagreed to appoint Penny as Chief services, coupled with audit or risk, experience.
The brief was Executive from the conclusion of the AGM on 9 May 2019. shared with executive search agencies and the Committee The decision was announced on 26 February 2019. agreed to engage Egon Zehnder, which is a signatory to the TheCompany has launched the search for a new CFO.
Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, andhas no other connection to the Company, to conduct the searches.
CO. UK 83 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Egon Zehnder prepared a list of candidates of appropriate In March 2018, the Board adopted a Diversity Policy which merit from diverse backgrounds for each of the positions.
sets out the Boards approach to diversity and is available TheCommittee agreed a shortlist for the roles and a series onthe Companys website.
This policy, which is annually ofinterviews took place.
Once the preferred candidates reviewed and monitored by the Committee, is presented to hadbeen identified and had given their consent to act as anyexecutive search firm during the selection and appointment Directors, and following regulatory approval, the Committee process for Board positions.
Further information on the Board recommended the appointment of Mark Gregory, Gregor Diversity Policy and the Groups diversity initiatives can be Stewart and Fiona McBain to the Board subject to found in the Corporate Governance report on page 73. regulatoryapproval.
The Board supports the targets set in the Hampton-Alexander Review.
As at the date of this report, female representation Electing and re-electing Directors onthe Board was 42% 2017: 36%.
The Board remains Before recommending the proposed election or re-election committed to progressing women into senior roles and aims ofDirectors at the 2018 AGM, the Committee reviewed the toincrease female representation at executive level through independence of NEDs and concluded that all NEDs met the associated development programmes for high-potential females.
criteria for independence set out in the Code.
Mike Biggs was independent when he was appointed as Chairman.
The Board also supports the recommendations set out in the Parker Review.
It is the Boards ambition to increase cultural Jane Hanson and Mike Biggs have served on the Board for and ethnic diversity on the Board by 2021. longer than six years and, in accordance with the Code, the extension of their terms of appointment has been the subject The Board reviewed and approved this report on 4 March 2019. ofa particularly rigorous review by the Committee.
Mike Biggs, as Chairman of the Board and Chair of the Committee, was not involved in his own review.
The Board is satisfied that Jane and Mike remain independent in judgement and character, that they continue to make a MICHAEL N BIGGS significant contribution to the Board and its Committees, CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE andthat they provide valuable continuity to the Board.
The Committee recommended to the Board and shareholders that all serving Directors be submitted for election or re-election at the Companys 2018 AGM, with the exception of Andrew Palmer and John Reizenstein, who had decided to step downat the conclusion of the AGM.
As announced on 5 March 2019, Clare Thompson has decided, after serving as a NED for over six years, to step down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 9 May 2019 and, accordingly, will not be submitting herself for re-election.
Diversity The Board believes that an effective board with a broad strategic perspective embraces a diversity of gender, race, skills, experience, as well as regional, socio-economic, educational and professional background, among other differences.
In its search for candidates, the Board aims only toengage with executive search firms which are signatories tothe Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
84 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Social Responsibility Committee report Membership, attendance and responsibilities of SEBASTIAN JAMES the Committee can be found onpages 67 and 68.
CHAIR OF THE CSR COMMITTEE Shape the future Areas of focus in the reporting period During 2018, the Committee monitored the shape the The Committee focused on Shotgun, the Groups CSR futurestrategy, which aims to influence the future road safety initiative, aimed at reducing young driver accidents, and framework through strategic partnerships.
The Committee noted encouraging evidence that use of the Shotgun app supports the Groups three-year programme with the road safety was having a measurable positive influence on young charity, Brake, to produce a series of topical survey reports drivers driving behaviours.
ondriver behaviour and attitudes, and the Groups work with During the year, management introduced a new initiative the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety to to realign Group charitable giving with a single cause: investigate whether the lack of seat belt use is leading to mental health.
The Committee supported management in roadcasualties.
its collaboration with MIND and its partner charity, the Build an inclusive culture Scottish Association for Mental Health.
Throughout 2018, the Committee reviewed managements The Committee was delighted to see increases in initiative to build an inclusive culture through diversity and employee engagement scores across the Group, as inclusion.
The Committee supported managements plans to measured by the annual employee survey and the 2019 focuson wellbeing and mental health.
Priority areas during Sunday Times list of the 25 Best Big Companies to 2018included: extending the roll-out of mental health training to WorkFor, in which the Group achieved third place.
all people managers: providing access to resilience workshops The Groups target for reducing energy usage is 30% and webinars for all employees: and introducing Mental Health by2020 against a baseline established in 2013.
The First Aiders on every floor of every site to be points of contact for Committee noted that, in 2018, the Groups energy employees who are experiencing a mental health issue or usage had decreased by 2% compared to 2017, emotional distress.
bringing the total reduction against the 2013 During the year, management updated the Committee on baselineto20%.
keystatistics in relation to the Groups gender pay gap, and onthe work being undertaken to increase the number of women insenior roles.
This included the introduction of a progression Main activities during the year focused support programme for high-potential females, new The Committee monitors the implementation of the Groups CSR recruitment methods for attracting and retaining female talent and strategy through regular updates on the different focus areas the launch of the Thrive initiative, a support community aimed at and challenges the robustness of, and progress against, targets inspiring the Groups female colleagues.
Further details on diversity relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.
The Committee also can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 73. ensures that best practice and thinking across the market are considered as part of the Groups own CSR approach.
The Committee recognises the importance of maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct and behaviour in our business The Group launched a new CSR strategy for 2018 which practice and in the workplace.
The Committee examined the focused on two overarching goals: Protecting Britains road content and effectiveness of the Groups Code of Business users and Reflecting an ever-changing Britain.
Information Conduct to ensure that it reflected the Groups position in onthe key strategies for these goals is set out below.
relationto CSR and diversity and inclusion.
Stop deaths now During the year, the Committee received regular progress updates on Shotgun.
The Committee was pleased that, since itsinception in 2015, there had been more than 27,000 downloads of the Shotgun app and 79% of users had experienced an improvement in their overall driving scores.
Youcan find further details on Shotgun in the Responsibility Report on page 54.
CO. UK 85 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Support our community Additional CSR activities The One Day volunteering initiative, which gives employees The Committee reviewed and challenged management on paid leave to volunteer in their local community, continued to keyCSR developments and emerging risks throughout 2018. be an area with great impact.
The Committee was pleased to The Committee also monitored and scrutinised the extent hear that 28% of the Groups employees engaged in some andeffectiveness of the Groups external reporting of CSR form of volunteering or fundraising activity in Company time performance, including through preparation for CSR-related during 2018. questions at the 2018 AGM and engagement with proxy voting advisers regarding CSR-related feedback.
The The Committee also reviewed the Groups policy on Committee continues to monitor managements evaluation of compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and how CSR matters in the context of ESG reporting to ensure that the third-party suppliers complied with the Acts requirements.
Groups external CSR position is consistent and appropriate.
The CSR strategy considers energy use, waste management and The Committee continues to challenge managements approach resource use within the Groups operations, and environmental toCSR initiatives to ensure that it is both authentic and strategic, and social matters in the Groups supply chain.
The Committee and that management continues to focus on initiatives with real reviewed and supported the key 2018 objectives relating to the potential to improve lives.
replacement of relevant plant and equipment at office locations with more energy-efficient equipment, the optimisation of the The Board reviewed and approved this report on 4 March 2019.
Building Energy Management System, the introduction of a scheme in the Groups Bromley office to recycle coffee cups andthe implementation of further energy saving opportunities inthe Groups auto repair centres.
SEBASTIAN JAMES CHAIR OF THE CSR COMMITTEE 86 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investment Committee report MARK GREGORY Membership, attendance and responsibilities of CHAIR OF THE INVESTMENT the Committee can be found onpages 67 and 68.
COMMITTEE During the first half of 2019, the changes are expected to Areas of focus in the reporting period bereflected in investment decision-making across all relevant Throughout the year, the Committee kept under review creditportfolios.
the economic and financial implications of the UK Market developments leaving the EU.
The implications of an orderly transition and no deal exit were considered.
At each scheduled meeting, the Committee received a marketupdate from the Director of Investment Management The positioning and asset holdings in the investment and Treasury.
The updates covered: economic conditions in portfolio and the need to balance risk and reward theUK, the US and the Eurozone: market levels for key asset wereconsidered in light of the potential Brexit outcomes.
classes notably credit : the outlook for interest rates and An investment framework which included an ESG lens inflation: and developing issues viewed as appropriate to forthe Groups investment grade credit portfolios was bebrought to the attention of the Committee.
The impact on developed and adopted.
assets of developments in international trading relations and theweakness of the retail sector were of particular note during2018.
The Committee also monitored the continuing Main activities during the year development of interest rate policies set by the Bank of England Brexit and the US Federal Reserve and the impact on the hedged One of the principal risks considered by the Committee during yields of US Dollar credit assets held in the portfolio.
2018 was the economic and financial market implications Suitability of investment strategy ofthe UK leaving the EU.
For planning purposes, in view of uncertainty about the progress of negotiations with the EU, the An annual asset and liability management study and a implications of both an orderly transition and a no deal exit stressedliquidity analysis were presented to the Committee, had to be considered.
informing strategic benchmark allocations and providing part ofthe context for the addition of new asset classes or exiting Against this background, the Committee considered papers apresent holding.
The Committee approved a small reduction and reports which examined current portfolio diversification, in US credit exposure, a reduction in overall access to liquidity portfolio positioning duration, liquidity and the possible required over a three-month horizon and increases in exposure rangeof changes in asset valuations that could be experienced to commercial real estate loans and Euro credit.
under the orderly transition and no deal exit scenarios.
The Committee also debated the benefits of hedging strategies Monitoring investment activity and performance tomitigate changes in asset valuations in addition to the The Committee received a comprehensive report at investment portfolios existing defensive orientation.
eachscheduled meeting covering: the financial results from The Committees view was that the positioning and asset investment activity: aggregate portfolio positioning against holdings within the investment portfolio were proportionate to strategic benchmarks: performance of each individual portfolio the need to balance risk and reward.
The Committee noted against benchmark: adherence to operational controls: thelikelihood of higher cash balances at the end of 2018, performance of suppliers: and compliance with an agreed reflecting existing defensive positioning within the portfolio framework of risk limits.
The Committee invited the managers anda decision taken in November to not reinvest sterling responsible for the commercial real estate loans portfolio bondmaturities in the short term while monitoring market andthe infrastructure debt portfolio to present updates on reactions to the development of a Brexit solution.
The Committee also examined a Committees conclusions were reported to the Board during proposal by management to reduce investment fees through itsdiscussions on the wider implications of Brexit on the theappointment of a core external asset manager, under whom business operations and capital position of the Group.
a number of investment mandates would be consolidated.
The Committee met the recommended manager to determine the Sustainable investing adequacy of their skills and resources to meet the expanded At the April and July meetings of the Committee, a framework role towards the end of the year.
The Committee was also for including an ESG lens into investment decision-making for updated on the change in categorisation of money market the investment grade credit portfolios was debated and agreed.
funds used by the Group for cash investments as the funds move to comply with EU money market reform regulation.
The Groups future investing framework will incorporate a focus on ESG-weighted indices which will tilt the composition of the The Board reviewed and approved this report on 4 March 2019. portfolio towards higher holdings and weightings of issuers with strong ESG scores.
Investment managers will be encouraged to invest more in green bonds where such bonds are available and of comparable credit quality.
Limited negative screening MARK GREGORY will be applied and investments will not be made in companies CHAIR OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE which carry out activities which the Committee does not consider appropriate.
