Build 10 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GROWTH STRATEGY COMPOUNDING GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Grow GROWTH IS ACCELERATED BY INVESTING INVALUE ENHANCING ACQUISITIONS Acquire STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 WHAT WE PUT IN ACQUIRE BUILD GROW Clear business criteria have been The acquisitions we make are of Once the acquisition is integrated established to guide the Groups businesses that are already successful and into the Group, with a solid platform acquisition programme: with a good track record.
However, these established, the focus is on delivering fit with the Groups business model: businesses have typically reached the point stable, profitable growth.
marketing led with strong customer where additional resources are needed to relationships: take them to the next level of growth.
The results of the Acquire, Build, secure supply of high quality, Grow strategy can be seen in the differentiated products: and Working with management, we improving revenue growth and capable management.
provide the investment required to operating margins post-acquisition.
build a solid foundation to allow the business to move to a new level of The principal financial criteria are: growth.
The investment we make in Track record of stable, profitable growth new acquisitions will normally be in new and cash generation.
facilities and IT systems, increased but Exceed post-tax IRR threshold of 13% better managed working capital and to ensure 20% pre-tax return on additional management resource.
WHAT WE GET OUT Acquisitions give entry into new but Except in the case of smaller bolt-on By the third year post-acquisition, related markets and thereby extend acquisitions, the acquired companies underlying revenue growth the reach of the existing businesses maintain their distinct sales and for the acquired businesses is typically and bring new growth opportunities.
marketing identity and strong higher than the Group average and independent management teams.
operating margins have improved The Group applies a consistent by 200300bps on average.
level of effort and resources to Where there are opportunities for identifying and developing acquisition synergies with other Group businesses, These improvements in financial opportunities.
However, the output these are managed in larger business performance ensure that the Group in terms of acquisitions completed, clusters.
Synergies typically include: creates value through its acquisition ebbs and flows depending on programme and maintains ROATCE the acquisition environment.
Cross-selling between above the 20% threshold.
the businesses To achieve the Groups objective of Joint purchasing between strong double-digit growth, acquisition the businesses spend of at least 30m p. a. is targeted.
Shared operational infrastructure and shared back-office functions HOW WEVE MADE PROGRESS COAST ABACUS dx US INDUSTRIAL OEM SEALS In October 2017, Clarendon Specialty Since being acquired in 2017, the After clustering these businesses under Fasteners acquired the business and business has been integrated with our a single senior management team, an assets of Coast Fabrication Inc, a existing DS business and has invested ERP system was implemented in 2018 small specialty fastener distributor in expanded shared service facilities to replace a number of legacy systems.
Coast has a in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, This will allow the management team strong reputation in US Motorsport whilst cross-training technical and to consolidate back-office processes to which complements Clarendons applications support personnel at both improve visibility of customer activity, strong Motorsport presence in Europe.
the global supplier and local level.
As inventory and supplier information, and Coast also provides a US base to a result Abacus dx was able to sell and finance.
Each location will continue to expand Clarendons existing aircraft service over 90 diagnostic instrument maintain its own distinct identity, but interiors business in this large market placements in 2018 and benefit from the the ERP system will allow the business and allows Clarendon to access associated pull-through in consumable to service customers using shared the major US fasteners suppliers.
Revenues of Abacus dx grew by knowledge and products that will increase Revenues of Clarendon, including 9% on a like-for-like basis in 2018. the value to the customer.
Revenues of Coast, grew by 25% in 2018. this business cluster grew by 13% in 2018.
For more information For more information For more information See pages 22-25 See pages 14-17 See pages 18-21
