E s s o s l u e t n i o t i n a s l s l t a i c t u n 08 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OUR BUSINESS MODEL MAKING US ESSENTIAL TO OUR CUSTOMERS OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS BUILT ON THE THREE ESSENTIALS PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONSAND VALUES d e s o s r E p E s v s a e l u n e t s i a l STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 09 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 WHAT WE PUT IN ESSENTIAL ESSENTIAL ESSENTIAL PRODUCTS SOLUTIONS VALUES Our businesses focus on supplying Our businesses design their individual We encourage an entrepreneurial essential products and services funded business models to provide solutions that culture across our businesses, through a by customers operating rather than closely meet the requirements decentralised management structure.
capital budgets and supplied across a of their customers: range of specialised industry segments.
We want our managers to feel that Highly responsive customer service, they have the freedom to run their own The majority of the Groups revenues are such as the next day delivery from stock businesses, while being able to draw generated from consumable products.
In of essential, but low value items.
upon the support and resources of a many cases, the products will be used in larger group where this is beneficial.
repair and maintenance applications and Deep technical support, where we refurbishment and upgrade programmes, Within our businesses we have work closely with our customers rather than supplied to original strong, self-standing management in designing our products into equipment manufacturers.
teams who are committed to and their specific applications.
rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
Added value services which, if we did not provide these services, customers would have to pay others to provide or would require investment in additional resources of their own.
HOW WEVE MADE PROGRESS Performance is measured by Performance is measured by the Performance is more difficult to measure the underlying growth in revenue, after level and stability over time of directly, but non-financial KPIs can give adjusting for currency gross and operating margins: an indication of organisational stability and acquisitions disposals: and health.
Over the last five years: Gross margins have remained broadly This year, the underlying stable over many years, excluding Average length of service for all growth has been7%.
11 years for the senior management cadre.
Over five years, the average underlying This year, adjusted operating margin growth has been 5% p. a. improved 20bps to17.5%.
Number of working days lost to sickness has consistently been ca.
Over five years, the average adjusted operating margin has been 17.7%.
For more information For more information For more information See page 13 See page 13 See page 13 WHAT WE GET OUT RECURRING INCOME AND STABLE SUSTAINABLE AND AGILITY AND REVENUE GROWTH ATTRACTIVE MARGINS RESPONSIVENESS Our focus on essential products By supplying solutions, not just products, Our decentralised organisational model and services contributes to the we build strong long term relationships with ensures that decisions are made close to Groups record of stable revenue our customers and suppliers, supporting the customer and that the businesses are growth over the business cycle.
agile and responsive to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Our businesses target GDP plus Our businesses achieve sustainable levels of underlying revenue growth and attractive gross margins by offering Agility and responsiveness in the over the economic cycle, with higher strongly differentiated products and businesses ensure close management growth rates achieved at the Group customer focused solutions within of operating costs and working capital level, through carefully selected specialised market segments.
By running and deliver strong free cash flow.
efficient operations, these gross margins are converted into healthy operating margins.
