MARKET OVERVIEW New customer expectations The pace of technological change and new regulatory requirements demands an agile response, combined with smart investment choices, to deliver what our customers want.
Development Impact Action Digital innovation allows insurers to Our latest generation IT capabilities went into testing at the Digital interact with consumers in new, more endof 2018.
These are designed to allow us to provide more technology effective ways.
targeted products with improved customer journeys, by delivering greater pricing agility with increased data flows, more product flexibility and increased self-service, amongst other benefits.
Insurers are gaining greater data insight We are driving performance through advanced analytics, for Data as devices become ever-more connected.
instance by creating better understanding of rescue claims in our Green Flag business.
New systems enable customers to We are exploring the use of new approaches across our value Artificial accessquicker self-service at lower chain, including the use of machine learning techniques in Intelligence, costand pricing to become fairer pricing and the use of robotics across our business, which Machine andmore accurate.
Learning and Robotics Digitalisation and technology bring We have invested in a range of cloud-enabling security measures Security arisk to information security.
and have been working closely with a range of peer groups to tackle security risks affecting the entire industry.
Sophisticated technology is changing We remain partners in leading in-car technology projects In-Car vehicles, including the advent of StreetWise and MOVE UK, helping us to gain insight into the Technology electricand autonomous cars.
development of autonomous vehicles and the impact on liability and claims.
Claims inflation has returned to long-term We have once again added to our accident and repair centre Claims expected trends.
network, helping us to manage costs.
Customers are increasingly looking for We have launched a combination of nine new Direct Line Customers unique insurance products, tailored to propositions unique in the insurancemarket.
Direct Line for Business has extended its proposition to target over 500 small and micro trades.
Partnerships enable us to leverage We continued to grow the number of home insurance policies Partnerships unique distribution and or access data through our partnership with RBS Group, and renewed our to streamline the customer experience Travelagreements with Nationwide and RBS Group for and create competitive advantage in anotherfive years.
We also signed a five-year deal with Volkswagen Insurance Service Great Britain Limited, providing motor insurance usingfive Volkswagen Group brands.
The Act will introduce new measures We are working with the Government to help design the Civil toreform the soft-tissue whiplash injury newonline portal for whiplash claims that will come into Liability compensation system and introduce a force in 2020.
Act new framework for setting the Ogden discount rate.
The Financial Conduct Authority We have signed up to the Association of British Insurers Pricing haslaunched a General Insurance guidingprinciples and action points to help with how renewal Pricing Practices Market Study.
premiums are dealt with, building on our review of long-term andpotentially vulnerable customers.
Increasing numbers of long-standing customers have seen their renewal premium eitherfrozen or reduced.
Find out more about our Strategy on pages 19 21 18 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS Regulation Market Technology
