STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGY A strategy targeting sustainable growth Our strategy looks to position us as a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business to enable us to meet our customers needs now and in the future, regardless of how and where they buy our products.
Supporting this strategy isa substantial and ongoing change and investment agenda.
Make insurance much easier and better value for our customers Our strategic pillars Our key enablers Our multi-channel approach Great retailer Data and technology Direct We have compelling brands and We aim to harness the power of The growth in Direct Line and Green Flag multiplecustomer propositions and deliver technology and the scale of our data demonstrates that if you give customers a a strong customer experience which we tomake things easier for our customers reason to come direct then they will, as constantly evolve to meet the needs of and our people.
we strive to deliver excellent value for our customers.
Culture and capability Smart and efficient Price comparison websites We invest in our people to help them manufacturer Strong brands and propositions are realise their potential because it leads Our scale and data allow us the important but so are great prices.
We tobetter customer experience and more efficiency and flexibility to deliver better are improving our effectiveness on price sustainable business performance.
customer and claims service and better comparison websites through our work risk insights.
on pricing and in dealing with fraud, Capital and risk supported by our investment in latest management Lead and disrupt generation IT systems.
We maintain an appropriate level By embracing the future, we aim to ofcapital and solvency to manage Partnerships shape it and launch new products and ourcustomers pool of risks while services which anticipate consumer trends We are leveraging our manufacturing understanding, monitoring and managing so that we continue our tradition of strength through our digital capabilities our own existing and emerging risks disruptive change.
toseek to develop innovative and within carefully defined parameters.
Read about our progress in 2018 on pages 20 21 WWW.
CO. UK 19 STRATEGY CONTINUED Strategy in action Strategy in action As a forward-looking and proactive business, we are constantly evolving our offer to meet our customers needs and taking advantage of significant advances in technology.
In 2018 we continued to improve our competitiveness, agility and efficiency across the business.
Connecting with our customers Bristol Our people are committed to doing their very best for our customers and our Our new Bristol office, The Core, business every day.
We are particularly proud of how our people step up to has created a new and dynamic thechallenge to get our customers lives back on track during severe weather environment for our people to serve periods such as the freezing weather we saw in Q1 2018.
One of our values is our customers.
It has given our to aim higher and we actively encourage everyone to push themselves and learn people a variety of new workspaces new strengths.
We know that customers have differing needs when it comes to to support collaboration and flexible buying insurance, which is why we use our frontline experience to develop new working, all in a fully refurbished propositions based on customer feedback.
building half the size of our previoussite.
It is also why we introduced a training programme called CONNECT, whichhas been accredited by the Institute of Customer Service, for our people Environmental considerations were ina customer facing role.
This training helps to ensure that our customers central to the design.
LED lighting, receivea personalised service which matches their expectations and needs.
new chillers, heating, ventilation Theprogramme enables our people to learn about the different approaches andan air conditioning system have customers may take and gives them the skills to respond with empathy, whilst made the site more energy efficient.
also taking responsibility and accountability.
This is important for our customers Run costs are now 55% lower than who are dealing with difficult situations such as illness or bereavement and they were in 2016.
The Core is vulnerable customers who need additional help to ensure that their cover is thelatest example of how we are theright cover for them.
Based on the CONNECT training, our people who looking to shape our technology successfully demonstrate high levels of customer service receive a certificate of andworkspaces for the future, accreditation from the Institute of Customer Service.
The impact is clear from whilemeeting our environmental customer benchmarking studies which measure the willingness of customers objectives.
We are proud it has torecommend products or services, adding to our ability to maintain strong reduced our carbon emissions in customer retention rates.
Latest generation ITsystems We continue to build our latest generation IT capabilities designed to enable much more customer self-service and straight-through processing and to give our customers easier and quicker service at a lower cost whilst improving the efficiency and flexibility of the business.
Over the next few years we also plan to wind down and then removeour existing mainframe, while growing our use of the cloud.
This is planned to give us flexibility inthe future to deal with changing business requirements and changes in technology.
20 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Green Flag Price comparison websites We believe our challenger brand has great growth This year a working group has focused on establishing potentialand demonstrated this again by achieving another a price comparison website hub aiming to drive period ofdouble digit growth in policy count and premiums.
capability across the Group by assessing customer Our marketing targets the two-thirds of major competitors needs throughout the entire price comparison website customers who renew without much thought and aims to sales journey.
A dedicated team, using digital resource wake them up by dramatising how we match the best things and data analytics, is seeking to build greater expertise about their servicewhilst saving half their renewal premium.
and agility in real time, enabling better insight on pricing and the opportunity for swifter decision-making.
We know that service matters a lot in this market customers This is important for a sales platform that operates on wont sacrifice it for price.
Weve brought in new leadership very different market dynamics compared to selling and brought the business together not only in reporting lines direct.
By working across product lines the working but also physically to create rescue centres of excellence to group has instilled a price comparison deliver this great service.
We will be using many of the same  to agile techniques that have proved successful in delivering fast safeguard against functional and affordable change for Direct Line for Business.
640,000 breakdowns responded to in 2018 thats 1 every 49 seconds Accident repair Renewal pricing principles The lack of barriers to shopping around for insurance brings substantial benefits centres to consumers who benefit from cheaper prices.
However, we recognise that We continued to expand our whilst shopping around can bring benefits to those who do it, it does create network of accident repair centres differences between new customer premiums and subsequent renewal premiums.
and now have 20 sites across The Group has taken several steps to tackle this issue in recent years.
In 2016 theUK, giving us more capability we backed the Association of British Insurers and the British Insurance Brokers todeliver our seven day repair Associations Code of Good Practice to ensure that our people were trained proposition for Direct Line customers.
We believe that renewal premiums This year alone, we repaired over should not become excessive over time so we put in place checks and balances 85,000 vehicles, building on our for our long-standing customers.
Increasing numbers of long-standing customers excellent record of customer service.
have seen their renewal premium either frozen or reduced as a result.
This year By investing in the latest technology we welcomed the Association ofBritish Insurers principles which are intended we are preparing the business for tohelp embed best practice across the industry.
the future by better understanding how technology will affect the Find out more in our design and manufacture of cars.
Market overview on page 18 Our high operating efficiency has also allowed us to deliver excellent cost control while meeting our In-car technology environmental targets through The automotive industry is undergoing dramatic change with improvements lowering emissions and inin-car technology and the advent of electric, connected and autonomous increasedrecycling of parts.
We are embracing these changes and the opportunities they may present for us to evolve our products.
We are maintaining our industry-leading position through our partnerships with MOVE UK in Greenwich and our participation in StreetWise, which aims to put driverless cars on the streets of 85,000 Croydon in 2019.
We also continue to work with motor manufacturers such vehicles repaired asVolkswagen, Peugeot, Citron and Tesla, evolving our products to match theircustomers needs.
