14 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 LIFE SCIENCES HEALTHCARE UK.
Similar to the other DHG businesses, THE LIFE SCIENCES The Diploma Healthcare Group DHG TPD focuses on specialised laboratory SECTOR BUSINESSES operates in three principal geographies diagnostics and specialty medical device Canada, Australasia and Europe.
In segments, again leveraging several SUPPLY A RANGE Canada, DHG supplies to the ca.
OF CONSUMABLES, public hospitals across the country as well as to private clinics and pathology ENVIRONMENTAL INSTRUMENTATION laboratories.
Somagen Diagnostics The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental AND RELATED SERVICES Somagen supplies a range of testing laboratories and to Health & Safety consumables and instruments used in the engineers.
The a1-envirosciences business, TO THE HEALTHCARE diagnostic testing of blood, tissue and based in Germany, supplies a range of AND ENVIRONMENTAL other samples.
It is also a leading supplier containment enclosures for potent powder to the growing cancer screening and the handling.
The a1-CBISS business, based INDUSTRIES assisted reproductive technology ART in the UK, supplies equipment and services markets.
AMT Vantage comprises the for the monitoring and control of AMT Surgical and Vantage Endoscopy environmental emissions, as well as a Vantage divisions.
AMT Surgical range of gas detection devices.
supplies specialised equipment and consumables for electrosurgery and MARKET DRIVERS PRINCIPAL SEGMENTS minimally invasive MI surgery use in The DHG businesses in Canada supply hospital operating rooms.
Vantage into areas of Healthcare that are supplies endoscopes and related predominantly public sector funded.
consumables, therapeutic devices and Private sector funding, representing services to GI Endoscopy suites in ca.
30% of Healthcare expenditure in hospitals and private clinics.
Vantage is Canada, is largely focused on areas where also expanding its portfolio into the DHG does not participate, specifically Urology and Gynaecology surgical dental, cosmetic, eye surgery and segments with rigid and flexible scopes pharmaceuticals.
The principal demand and specialised instrument sets.
driver for DHG in Canada is therefore the sustainable level of Healthcare spending In Australia and New Zealand, DHG also funded by the Canadian Government.
supplies to hospitals, private clinics and pathology laboratories.
In April 2017, The Canadian Health Act the Act DHG acquired Abacus ALS, a long 85% HEALTHCARE ensures universal coverage for all insured established supplier of instrumentation 15% ENVIRONMENTAL persons for all medically necessary services and consumables to the Pathology provided by hospitals, physicians and other and Life Sciences sectors.
At the start of Healthcare providers.
A growing, ageing the current financial year, Abacus ALS and well educated population demands was combined with Diagnostic Solutions high standards of service delivery, helping GEOGRAPHY to form Abacus dx, a market leading to ensure ongoing growing demand.
50% Canada clinical diagnostics business supplying 26% Europe to both public and private laboratories.
The Provinces are responsible for the 24% Australasia Big Green Surgical BGS supplies a delivery of the Healthcare services, but range of products to the Surgical the Federal Government partially controls Products sector.
Abacus dx and BGS delivery through Federal Provincial CUSTOMERS share several common suppliers with transfer payments, which represent the 84% Clinical DHGs Canadian businesses.
largest source of revenues for the 9% Utilities Provinces.
The relative stability and 3% Chemical & Pharmaceutical In Europe, DHG operates through consistency in funding by each of the 2% Life Sciences Research Technopath Distribution TPD, an Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, 2% Other Life Sciences established supplier of products to the ensures that the market remains well Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and funded through the economic cycle Medical Device markets in Ireland and the and current expenditure of 10.4% PRODUCTS 70% Consumables 21% Instrumentation PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS 9% Service Healthcare Somagen Diagnostics Edmonton, AB, Canada AMT Vantage Kitchener, ON, Canada Abacus dx Brisbane, QLD & Melbourne, VIC, Australia Big Green Surgical Melbourne, VIC, Australia Technopath Distribution Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland Environmental a1-CBISS Tranmere, UK a1-envirosciences Dsseldorf, Germany STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 of GDP 11.5% including capital 1 Canadian Healthcare expenditure % growth expenditure places Canada in the top C$bn 20% of OECD countries.
17 169.0 73.0 3.9% 16 163.3 69.6 3.3% Over many years, Healthcare expenditure 15 158.7 66.8 4.3% has grown steadily with annual variations 14 152.2 64.0 3.1% mostly dependent on the periodic additional 13 148.4 61.2 1.9% tranches of funding provided by individual Provinces.
In periods when the economy Public Private has been slower, Healthcare funding has still Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information.
shown growth, albeit at reduced levels.
In 1 Includes capital expenditure, forecast data 2016 and 2017.
2017, public Healthcare spending in Canada was ca.
C$170bn, withthe largest category 1 Australian Healthcare expenditure % growth of expenditure ca.
C$70bn being in the A$bn hospital sector.
17 124.2 56.5 5.9% The Healthcare market in Australia shares 16 114.7 55.9 5.5% with Canada many of the same attractive 15 108.1 53.5 4.5% characteristics for specialised distribution.
14 104.9 49.8 5.2% While privately funded Healthcare is 13 100.4 46.6 3.6% more prevalent in areas such as surgery Public Private and laboratory testing, public sector Source: Australian Institute of Health & Welfare.
Healthcare funding is still large and 1 Includes capital expenditure.
supported by a stable, resource based economy.
As with Canada, Australia has alarge geography to be covered, 1 UK Healthcare expenditure % growth low population density and purchasing bn processes that vary by State.
These 16 135.5 29.9 4.5% characteristics necessarily demand a 15 129.5 28.8 3.6% significant investment by manufacturers 14 125.6 27.2 5.2% in technical sales and service resource, 13 119.5 25.8 3.4% which makes the specialised local 12 116.3 24.2 2.0% distribution model a very attractive mechanism for manufacturers to serve Public Private the local markets.
Source: UK Health Accounts 2017 data not available.
Since 2013, the Canadian and Australian economies have come under pressure 1 from low oil prices and reduced demand Total current Healthcare expenditure as a percentage of GDP for the countries natural resources.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thistougher economic environment has resulted in greater pressure on budgets Canada 10.1% 10.0% 10.4% 10.5% 10.4% throughout the Healthcare systems in Australia 8.8% 9.1% 9.3% 9.3% 9.1% both countries.
In such periods, Ireland 10.3% 9.7% 7.4% 7.4% 7.1% Healthcare funding is tightly constrained through targeted controls imposed on the UK 9.8% 9.7% 9.8% 9.8% 9.7% number of laboratory tests and operating procedures as well as more rigorous Source: OECD 1 Excluding capital expenditure.
tendering and Group procurement processes for expenditure on capital equipment.
Even with such pressures, however, Healthcare funding has shown positive growth in total Healthcare expenditure of 34% and 46% low single-digit levels, compared with to be compliant with a range of EU average growth of 8% p. a. over the regulations.
Since market demand is respectively in Canada and Australia.
In Ireland, Healthcare driven by regulation, this ensures expenditure saw reductions year-onreasonably steady demand for essential The principal market driver for the TPD business is Healthcare funding in the year in 2010 and 2011, since then growth consumable products and services, has resumed at low single-digit levels.
though customers may defer capital UK and Ireland, which totals ca.
215bn, expenditure during significant downturns representing ca.
10% of combined The a1-group supplies to customers in the in the economy.
90% of the total funding and ca.
80% is Environmental industry in the UK, Germany and France.
The market demand provided by public funding and 20% is largely driven by Environmental and by private funding.
Following the Health & Safety regulations and growth in 2009 recession, annual growth in UK Healthcare expenditure has slowed to recent years has been driven by the need 16 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 LIFE SCIENCES SECTOR PERFORMANCE The Life Sciences businesses invested HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE YEAR Reported revenues of the Life Sciences 3.5m 2017: 2.0m in new capital during Sector revenue growth of 7%: Sector businesses increased by 7% the year of which 2.3m 2017: 1.6m underlying growth of 5% after to 134.7m 2017: 125.9m.
The was spent on acquiring field equipment adjusting for currency and an acquisition of Abacus ALS, acquired in for both new placements in hospitals acquisition completed last year April 2017, incrementally added 6.4m and laboratories and for loan equipment or 5% to Sector revenues, which was and demonstration models to support In Canada, DHG underlying revenues partly offset by a headwind of 3% from existing placements.
The increase in increased by 8% with strong currency movements on translation of spend on field equipment was largely consumable revenues from its leading the results from overseas businesses driven by the launch of a new series of products: the Surgical and Endoscopy to UK sterling.
After adjusting for flexible endoscopes, together with the products lines at the Vantage business currency effects and this acquisition, addition of a range of rigid endoscopes reported strong revenues from the underlying revenues increased by 5%.
A introduction of new premium products further 0.6m was invested in completing Adjusted operating margins reduced In Australia and New Zealand, the refurbishment of the AMT and by 80bps to 17.7% largely reflecting underlying revenues increased by 4%: Vantage office and service facilities in the investment made during the year Abacus ALS acquired in April 2017 Kitchener and Markham, Canada and developing opportunities for the new reported strong growth across its on a new facility for a1-CBISS in the UK.
portfolio of products, which more than The balance of 0.6m was invested in DHG margins were also diluted from offset reduced revenues in the Surgical warehouse equipment and on upgrading a full year contribution, together Products business following the the IT infrastructure in both businesses.
with one-off integration costs, of the acquisition of a key supplier by a large Free cash flow increased marginally combined diagnostic businesses in industry player to 17.3m 2017: 17.0m, reflecting Australia and New Zealand and weaker reduced cash flows into working capital, TPD revenues were broadly flat in revenues following a loss of a supplier offset by higher capital investment.
Ireland and the UK with new suppliers in BGS.
In addition, an increase in and product segments replacing underlying costs in the Environmental Healthcare suppliers moving to a direct businesses on unchanged revenues led The DHG businesses, which account supply model to negative leverage.
However gross for 85% of Life Sciences revenues, margins improved reflecting a more increased underlying revenues by 6% The Environmental businesses reported favourable mix of revenues in both the after adjusting for currency effects unchanged underlying revenues with Healthcare and Environmental business.
and the incremental revenue from strong revenue growth in Germany, Transactional currency pressures on the the acquisition of Abacus ALS.
offset by reduced revenues in the UK Healthcare margins remained subdued, from delays in order placement but favourable currency hedges helped In Canada, underlying revenues offset some volatility of the Canadian and increased by 8% against the background Australian dollars relative to the US dollar of continuing budget pressures and Euro during the second half of the throughout the Provincial healthcare year.
Adjusted operating profits increased systems, with Group Procurement by 3% to 23.9m 2017: 23.3m.
Offices GPOs continuing to restructure and amalgamate, both nationally and regionally.
Revenue m Somagens core Clinical Diagnostics compound growth over five years business delivered an underlying increase of 2% in revenues, with steady growth in consumable and service revenues.
Capital sales decreased reflecting the 8% p. a. impact of laboratory centralisation and 18 134.7 reduced spending after a catch-up in procurement last year, following the 125.9 17 2016 hospital spending freeze in some 16 109.9 Provinces.
Demand for diagnostic 103.1 15 testing remained robust, particularly with a combination of strong growth 91.4 14 and contract extensions for cancer screening tests and growth from new technology introduced in the areas of REVENUE Autoimmunity.
A long term contract was renewed with a major supplier and an additional supply agreement was gained during the year that will 134.7 m provide opportunities for Somagen in the Microbiology market.
Somagen has 2018 2017 also secured large Provincial contracts to provide colorectal cancer screening Revenue 134.7m 125.9m 7% products and services that are expected Adjusted operating profit 23.9m 23.3m 3% to ramp up in the next financial year.
Adjusted operating margin 17.7% 18.5% 80bps Free cash flow 17.3m 17.0m 2% ROATCE 19.1% 19.7% 60bps STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AMT and Vantage, the Surgical and The TPD business in Ireland and the UK POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH Endoscopy businesses in Canada, reported revenues broadly flat in Euro delivered strong growth in revenues, terms, as it managed the transition of a Increase share of specialised primarily driven by the successful number of suppliers who have moved segments of Healthcare markets in introduction and rebranding of a from specialised distribution to a direct Canada, Australia and UK Ireland premium range of rigid and flexible supply model.
New suppliers have endoscopes and surgical instrument been secured that will help mitigate this Leverage DHG product portfolio sets in Vantage.
These offer further transition, together with solid growth across existing businesses and growth potential in the Urology and within the Clinical segment supplying extend into other medical disciplines Gynaecology segments of the surgical clinical chemistry and serology control market.
The introduction of a new series products.
New suppliers and businesses Pursue further Healthcare of endoscopes in early 2018 has also providing agitators and separators used acquisition opportunities in provided Vantage with opportunities in the NHS Blood and Transplant service Northern Europe and Asia-Pacific to replace existing customer supply continued to diversify the breadth of contracts in several Provinces.
The Biotechnology and Continue to develop product growth was also achieved at AMT in the Service segments also delivered good and geographic spread of supply of specialised instruments used growth from strong capital sales, which Environmental businesses in laparoscopic and other minimally reflected managements efforts to forge invasive surgical procedures.
These strong strategic partnerships with their growth initiatives have diversified diverse customer base both in Ireland the revenue streams across both the and the UK.
TPD is further broadening core surgical and GI businesses and its service capability beyond diagnostic The a1-CBISS business based in the UK mitigated the continuing pressures instrumentation and has established reported an 8% decrease in revenues in the electrosurgery and smoke a new Surgical Products division to reflecting significant delays during the evacuation businesses, where pricing bring to market the electrosurgical and year in order placement for continuous has now stabilised, albeit at lower smoke evacuation products similar emissions monitoring systems levels.
In October 2018, AMT secured to those supplied by AMT and BGS in CEMS.
However the opportunities a new five-year contract with a large Canada and Australia, respectively.
in this sector remain encouraging GPO to provide electrosurgical and with new Energy from Waste EFW smoke evacuation products.
Environmental plants playing an important role in The a1-group of Environmental reducing landfill waste.
Revenue from In Australia, Diagnostic Solutions has businesses in Europe, which account service contracts continues to grow been integrated into Abacus ALS to for 15% of Life Sciences revenues, saw as EFW plants supplied over the last form Abacus dx, a larger broader-based revenues increase by 1% in UK sterling 18 months become operational.
Clinical Diagnostics, Life Science and terms, but remained unchanged Patient Simulation business, supplying in constant currency terms.
to both the public and private pathology laboratories and to research and The a1-envirosciences business based in educational establishments across Germany increased revenues by 7% in Australasia.
Abacus dx has delivered Euro terms driven by strong demand in strong growth in revenues on a likeGermany for high-end halogen analysers for-like basis, despite the continuing and increased sales of customised consolidation of testing within Clinical containment enclosures.
The increasing Diagnostics and expanded professional environmental awareness and in procurement in the fragmented Life particular, the anticipated regulations on Sciences market.
Abacus dx is working toxic polyfluorinated compounds, found closely with key suppliers to position in a range of man-made products, is itself strongly in response to the shift creating demand for these analysers in R&D and Environmental control.
Health towards track based laboratory systems.
BGS, the Surgical Products business, & Safety regulations continue to increase reported a reduction in revenues as demand for customised containment it struggled with securing sales of enclosures for the safe weighing of hazardous materials.
The business is new products introduced to replace electrosurgical products from a supplier also targeting investment in service that had been acquired by a larger personnel to support the larger installed industry player with its own channels base and demand from customers for faster response times.
However strong growth from key suppliers of other Surgical investment is being made in an IT based Products helped mitigate some of the field service management system to shortfall.
In smoke evacuation, the enhance customer service and improve efficiency of its growing service team.
implementation of nursing guidelines enforcing smoke evacuation compliance will drive longer term growth, but has also slowed evaluation and decision processes during the year.
18 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SEALS NORTH AMERICA MARKET DRIVERS NORTH AMERICA THE SEALS SECTOR The Aftermarket businesses in North In the Aftermarket businesses in North BUSINESSES SUPPLY A America supply seals and associated America, the principal drivers are the products to support a broad range of general GDP growth, and activity and RANGE OF SEALS, GASKETS, mobile machinery in applications that spending levels in the Heavy Construction FILTERS, CYLINDERS, include Heavy Construction, Mining, and Infrastructure sectors.
In 2018, the US Logging, Agriculture, Material Handling economy is forecast to show annual GDP COMPONENTS AND KITS lift trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks and growth of 2.9% 2017: 2.3% driven USED IN HEAVY MOBILE Refuse Collection.
The products are primarily by strong consumer spending, generally supplied on a next day delivery growth in business investments fuelled by MACHINERY AND basis and are used in the repair and major tax reforms and growth in exports.
SPECIALISED INDUSTRIAL maintenance of equipment after it has Although the imposition of tariffs has completed its initial warranty period or dampened its impact, export growth has EQUIPMENT lease term or has been sold on the been underpinned by a pick-up in the pre-used market.
The main customers are world economy.
Total US Construction machinery and cylinder repair shops, spend including non-residential and engine and transmission rebuilders and infrastructure spend, as well as residential other heavy equipment parts distributors.
housing activity has continued to rise PRINCIPAL SEGMENTS through 2018.
The Industrial OEM businesses in North America supply seals, gaskets, Unit sales in the US of Construction O-rings and custom moulded and Equipment defined as heavy mobile machined parts to a range of Industrial equipment including excavators above OEM customers.
The businesses work 14 tonnes, crawler dozers and wheeled closely with customers to select the loaders is important as a medium term most appropriate seal design, material indicator for Hercules replacement and manufacturer for the application, hydraulic seals activities, as the new provide technical support and guidance equipment will move out of the dealer during the product development process warranty period in the following years.
and deliver the logistics capabilities to It is also a good short term indicator for supply from inventory to support small the HKX attachment kit business.
to medium sized production runs.
Demand for new equipment increased by ca.
However, the demand INTERNATIONAL 31% NORTH AMERICAN AFTERMARKET for new equipment remains below 2015 The International Seals businesses 29% NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL OEM levels as utilisation levels are high, the outside North America supply a range 40% INTERNATIONAL general mobile machinery population is of seals, gaskets, filters, custom relatively new, and contractors continue moulded and machined parts and to opt for the rental model for their hydraulic cylinder components to GEOGRAPHY equipment needs.
both Aftermarket and Industrial OEM 57% North America customers.
The businesses also supply 34% Europe In Canada, following a strong period of products to end users operating process 9% Rest of World expansion, GDP growth has slowed to a plants within the Mining, Oil & Gas, more sustainable level, driven by smaller Pharmaceutical, Chemical, Food and increases in public consumption and Energy sectors, where products are slower increases in exports resulting from CUSTOMERS required to support Maintenance, Repair an adjustment in automobile production 47% Industrial OEMs and Overhaul MRO operations.
and the outage of an Oil & Gas pipeline.
31% Heavy Construction 18% MRO & Other Industrial 3% Dump & Refuse Trucks 1% Logging & Agriculture PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS PRODUCTS North America HFPG 38% Seals & Seal Kits Aftermarket 18% O-Rings Hercules US Clearwater, FL, US 17% Cylinder & Other 12% Gaskets Hercules Canada Barrie, ON & Montreal, QC, Canada 11% Filters HKX Monroe, WA, US 4% Attachment Kits Industrial OEM J Royal Winston-Salem, NC & Tallassee, AL, US: Shanghai, China RT Dygert Minneapolis, MN, Chicago, IL & Seattle, WA, US All Seals Lake Forest, CA, & Denver, CO, US International FPE Seals Darlington & Aberdeen, UK: Breda, The Netherlands Kentek Helsinki, Finland: St. Petersburg, Russia: Riga, Latvia M Seals Espergaerde, Denmark: Halmstad, Sweden: Beijing, China: Gateshead & Leicester, UK Kubo Effretikon, Switzerland: Linz, Austria WCIS Perth & Brisbane, Australia: Noumea, New Caledonia STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 In 2018, a gradual restoration of oil pipeline US construction spend US$bn capacity and strong US growth is forecast 700 to result in robust GDP growth of 2.1%.
600 In general, the economic conditions in the South and Central American economies 500 served by the North American Aftermarket businesses continue to be 400 challenging but are showing signs of improvement with private consumption, 300 exports and earthquake related reconstruction activities expected to have 200 a positive impact.
100 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 For the Industrial OEM Seals businesses in North America, the principal market Source: Cyclast Intercast.
driver is the growth rate in the general industrial economy.
US industrial US construction equipment units 000 production declined through 2015 and 2016 but, having achieved strong growth 60 in 2017 and 2018, has now risen back above 2014 levels.
Increases in Mining 50 output supported by substantial gains in the Oil & Gas segment and continued 40 strength in the general Manufacturing segment have been the primary drivers of recent growth.
30 MARKET DRIVERS INTERNATIONAL 20 The International Seals businesses operate in a range of countries and diverse market 10 sectors and each has its own specific 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 market drivers.
The most relevant market Source: Cyclast Intercast.
drivers and indicators are therefore the general GDP growth and Industrial sector performance for the major geographies in US industrial production index which the businesses operate.
120 In the UK, economic growth is forecast to be marginally higher in 2018 at the modest 110 level of ca.
1.6% 2017: 1.8%, with stronger export growth offset by uncertainties over the outcome of Brexit negotiations and 100 reduced levels of investment.
The UK Construction sector, which drives the Aftermarket business, had been steadily 90 growing since mid-2012 until growth slowed in 2017.
Construction output contracted in the first quarter of 2018 but 80 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 began to recover through the year.
However, the environment remains highly Source: US Federal Reserve seasonally adjusted.
uncertain with new orders at a low level.
GDP growth in principal International Seals territories In the Nordic region, all countries are forecast to show positive GDP growth in Real GDP growth 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018.
Average growth across the region is forecast to be ca.
UK 3.1% 2.3% 1.9% 1.8% 1.6% Nordic region 1.7% 2.5% 2.3% 2.3% 2.4% In Switzerland, after years of subdued Switzerland 2.5% 1.2% 1.4% 1.1% 2.3% growth, the manufacturing sector gained Russia 0.7% 2.5% 0.2% 1.6% 1.7% momentum in 2017 as exporters benefited Australia 2.6% 2.5% 2.6% 2.3% 3.0% from the depreciation of the Swiss franc against the Euro making exports of Swiss Source: IMF and Nordic Statistics Industrial products more attractive.
GDP growth is forecast to increase to ca.
2.3% In Russia, the impact of low oil prices and In Australia, investment activity has been in 2018 2017: 1.1%, recovering to levels of adversely affected by the downturn in the EU and US sanctions continues to hinder growth similar to those achieved prior to economic growth.
However, the economy Mining sector, but the broader economy the decoupling of the Swiss franc from is benefiting from a stabilisation of oil has been driven by increased public and theEuro.
prices and foreign exchange rates and consumer spending.
In 2018, despite expectations that consumption growth will lower levels of inflation and, after having contracted by 2.5% in 2015 and 0.2% in be more subdued, GDP growth is forecast to 2016, GDP grew by 1.6% in 2017 with increase to ca.
3.0% 2017: 2.3%, supported further growth of 1.7% forecast in 2018. by increases in resource sector capacity and investment in public infrastructure.
20 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SEALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE The HFPG Aftermarket businesses HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE YEAR Reported revenues of the Seals Sector increased revenues by 9% on a constant Sector revenue growth of 7%: businesses increased by 7% to 208.0m currency basis, driven by strong trading underlying growth of 10% after 2017: 195.3m.
The acquisitions of conditions in the core Hercules business adjusting for currency and the net PSP and Edco completed in 2017, net of in both the US and Canada and continued impact from acquisitions and a a small disposal this year, contributed robust growth in the HKX attachment disposal completed during the past 3.3m or 2% to Sector revenues, but kit business.
There was significant two years this was more than offset by currency pick-up in activity in the Oil & Gas sector movements on translation of the and both new Construction and large In North America, Aftermarket results from overseas businesses to Infrastructure projects led to increased underlying revenues increased by 9%, UK sterling, which reduced Sector demand for heavy machinery that driven by strong markets in the core revenues by 5%.
After adjusting for the required increased servicing and repair.
Hercules business and continued acquisitions and for currency effects, The significant increase in activity has robust growth in the HKX business underlying revenues increased by 10%.
led to extended lead times in the supply Industrial OEM underlying revenues in chain and robust supplier price increases, Adjusted operating margins for the North America increased by 13% in a which HFPG has sought to mitigate Sector increased by 100bps to 17.3% very strong US industrial market, through increased catalogue prices.
2017: 16.3% with stronger revenues supported by healthy manufacturing providing operating leverage.
This PMI data In the domestic US market, Hercules more than offset a small reduction in revenues increased by 9% with the Implementation of a new ERP system gross margins arising from both a lag Repair and Distributor segments growing in the Industrial OEM businesses in the in the first half of the year in passing on steadily through the year reflecting US, following the establishment of a supplier price increases and increased higher equipment levels.
With seal senior management team last year to freight costs from expediting inventories.
manufacturers struggling to keep up with manage this cluster of businesses Adjusted operating profits increased demand, Distributors turned to Hercules by 13% to 36.0m 2017: 31.9m.
for their superior service and inventory International Seals businesses availability.
Hercules continue to add increased underlying revenues by During the year, 2.0m 2017: 1.1m products to their portfolio and broaden 7% with stronger trading across all of capital expenditure was invested the scope of equipment supported to businesses in the second half of in the Seals businesses.
This primarily include Aerial-Lifts, Logging, Injection the year comprised 1.1m on implementing a Moulding and Agriculture.
Investment new single ERP system across the US was also made to enhance existing Industrial OEM businesses and a new sales resources and extend into new ERP system in Kentek.
New market opportunities was spent on upgrading warehouse include seal kitting services for industrial equipment and facilities and on the plants of OEMs.
E-commerce continues general IT infrastructure across the to deliver strong year-on-year growth Seals businesses.
The free cash flow and now accounts for 30% of invoices generated in this Sector increased by processed and 25% of Hercules US 1.0m to 25.9m, with stronger operating revenues.
Enhancements were made to cash flow being partly absorbed by the E-commerce functionality to allow higher working capital to support customers to configure custom seals and the strong trading environment.
provide access via mobile applications.
Revenue m North American Seals The core Hercules business in the compound growth over five years The North American Seals businesses, US has also made good progress in which account for 60% of Seals revenues, developing a major project to invest reported revenues up 6% on the prior ca.
US$10m in a second warehouse year.
Underlying revenues increased by facility to provide capacity to meet the 14% p. a.
11%, after adjusting for the strengthening growing demand for a broader range of UK sterling against both the US and of products, as well as gain greater 18 208.0 Canadian dollar, for the disposal of a small access to expanded territories in the US.
17 195.3 non-core business in June and the bolt-on Potential facilities have been identified 16 166.6 acquisition of PSP completed last year.
and work on this project will commence in 2019 with the aim of becoming fully 139.6 15 operational in the 2020 financial year.
14 119.8 In Canada, revenues increased by 7% in local currency terms, supported REVENUE by a robust Construction sector with increased residential housing starts driving growth in the repair market.
Non-residential construction also grew 208.0m with several new mining projects and demand for additional warehouse 2018 2017 facilities.
Robust industrial markets had a positive impact on revenues from Revenue 208.0m 195.3m 7% sales to OEM cylinder manufacturers.
Adjusted operating profit 36.0m 31.9m 13% In markets outside of North America, Adjusted operating margin 17.3% 16.3% 100bps Hercules achieved a double-digit Free cash flow 25.9m 24.9m 4% increase in revenues from sales in Colombia and Chile and record sales ROATCE 25.3% 22.8% 250bps to the Rest of World, including China.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 The HKX attachment kit business International Seals POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH has continued to benefit from tight The International Seals businesses, availability of OEM excavator equipment.
which account for 40% of Seals Continue to gain share in In this environment revenues increased revenues, reported a 7% increase in Aftermarket Seals in North by 13%, with strong demand for Tier3 UK sterling terms, benefiting from America through superior machines in Canada ahead of the substantially stronger revenues in the marketing and new products Tier 4 mandate on 1 January 2019. second half of the year.
After adjusting for currency effects, the impact from Leverage E-commerce best practice In June 2018, Hercules sold its small the disposal of the Bulldog business from North America across Bulldog gasket business at net on FPE revenues and the acquisition of International Seals businesses asset value for cash consideration Edco completed last year, underlying of 4.0m as it was no longer a core revenues were also up 7%.
During the Build and expand the group of part of the Hercules business.
year the International Seals cluster of Industrial OEM Seals businesses businesses strengthened management, in North America and leverage The HFPG Industrial OEM businesses set up projects to implement new procurement activities with the in North America increased revenues by ERP systems in 2019 and shared best International Seals businesses 13% in a very strong US industrial market, practice in developing E-commerce supported by healthy Manufacturing functionality across the businesses.
Explore opportunities more PMI data.
The business has a number broadly in Industrial Distribution of large key accounts across a range The FPE Seals and M Seals businesses, in North America of specialised industrial applications in with their principal operations in the industries including Water, Medical, Oil & UK, Scandinavia and the Netherlands, Build larger, broader-based Gas, Fluid Handling and Food Equipment.
together delivered underlying growth of International Seals business in the Good double-digit growth was achieved 6% in revenues on a constant currency EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions in all these accounts through deeper basis and after adjustment for the and broader penetration to identify acquisition of Edco and disposal of additional value-adding opportunities.
The FPE Seals business delivered The businesses continue to provide high modest underlying revenue growth, gained a large new distribution supply levels of customer service and technical despite robust growth in its core UK contract representing a pan European support to service existing projects, while Aftermarket hydraulic seals and cylinder manufacturer that will provide further looking for opportunities to deploy higher parts business and a strong improvement opportunity for growth next year.
specification, regulatory-compliant in the Oil & Gas market.
This was offset The market in Austria has also been compounds, to target new projects by weaker international sales reflecting buoyant and Kubo has continued with higher levels of added-value.
the absence of a large export order to increase revenues from existing delivered last year.
Sales coverage and new customer contracts.
A constant challenge during the year has now been realigned to focus on was managing supplier price increases account management and the existing The Kentek business, with principal against a background of generally capacity for the production of machined operations in Finland and Russia, annual customer supply agreements, seals will be utilised to help penetrate increased revenues by 1% in Euro terms, particularly with the larger key accounts.
the small OEM and Repair businesses despite the significant impact on the The introduction of US tariffs towards the outside the hydraulic cylinder market.
region from the EU US sanctions regime.
end of the financial year has initially also Revenues generated in Russia, which led to some pressure on gross margins, M Seals continued to deliver good growth account for ca.
65% of Kentek revenues, as existing inventory works through.
in revenues from its core markets driven improved strongly in the second half of by strong customer relationships that Tariff charges are now being passed on to the year, after a weak first half, supported customers in the form of a separate line have provided a number of major new by stronger global Oil & Gas markets.
charge and selling prices will be updated projects, particularly in Sweden.
As with Kentek has also benefited significantly as supply agreements are renewed.
FPE Seals, M Seals has also benefited from expanding its own-brand filter in the UK from the recovery in the Oil & range and from widening its geographical The Industrial OEM Seals businesses Gas market with customers expanding coverage towards eastern Russia.
In now comprise a cluster of businesses activities and providing good growth Finland, revenues also increased with led by a single senior management team in revenues.
In its first full year with the sales targeted to support projects Group, Edco now collectively branded directing the key functions of Sales, in the large Industrial OEM sector.
Supply Chain, Technical and Finance, M Seals UK delivered good growth in while maintaining the distinct identity revenues on a like-for-like basis, with WCIS has core capabilities in industrial of each business.
This has provided the increased sales to key customers.
gaskets and mechanical seals used opportunity to realign sales resources in MRO operations in complex, high and consolidate the supply chain and Kubo, which operates in Switzerland and specification and arduous conditions.
finance functions within one back office.
Austria, increased underlying revenues Revenues were negatively impacted this A key and necessary part of this exercise by 13%, benefiting from strong industrial year by cost reduction initiatives in the production driven by increased exports was the implementation of a new ERP nickel mining and processing operations system to replace the disparate legacy and supported by the depreciation of the of its major customer in New Caledonia.
IT systems in the businesses.
Customers and suppliers This more than offset strong growth in ERP system, which went live shortly after reported full order books with production Australian revenues as new contracts capacity at high levels.
Kubo continues the year end, will increase operational were gained in the Power Generation efficiency and improve business to target smaller manufacturing sector and as Mining activity continued to intelligence to allow field sales to focus plants focused on Life Sciences, improve with repairs of customer assets.
on higher margin market segments Biotechnology and Microelectronics WCIS continues to broaden its coverage where Kubos specialised products and and products.
These initiatives will be across a wider range of products, supported by new branding and through technical knowledge can add value to market sectors and regional territories.
strategic advertising and trade shows.
During the year, Kubo 22 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CONTROLS INTERCONNECT water and water cooling systems.
THE CONTROLS SECTOR The IS-Group, Filcon, Cablecraft and FS Products include fluid controllers, BUSINESSES SUPPLY Cables businesses supply high compressors, valves, temperature and performance electrical interconnect pressure measurement devices and SPECIALISED WIRING, products used in technically demanding specialised vending and liquid dispensing CABLE, CONNECTORS, applications in a range of industries components.
The customer offering is including Aerospace & Defence, enhanced by value adding services FASTENERS AND Motorsport, Energy, Medical, Rail and including kitting for production line flow CONTROL DEVICES Industrial.
A high proportion of the and the repair and refurbishment of soft products supplied are used in drinks dispensing equipment.
USED IN A RANGE refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance OF TECHNICALLY programmes for equipment in service.
MARKET DRIVERS Products include electrical wiring, cable, Industrial economic background DEMANDING protective sleeving, connectors and The Controls businesses focus on APPLICATIONS harnessing products and customised specialised, technical applications in a assemblies.
A range of value adding range of industries, with ca.
90% of Sector activities enhances the customer offering, revenues generated in the UK and including marking of protective sleeves Continental Europe principally Germany.
and cables, customised labelling The background market drivers are PRINCIPAL SEGMENTS solutions, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, therefore the growth of the industrial connector assembly and prototype economies in the UK and Germany.
quantities of customised multi-core cables.
There is also a range of internally A good indicator of the health of the UK manufactured products, including flexible industrial economy is the UK Index of braided products for screening, earthing Production.
Following the 2009 recession, and lightning protection, power shunt gains in 2010 were reversed in 2011 and connectors, multi-core cables, cable 2012 and, except for a period of reduced markers, sleeving and trunking.
activity in 2015, since then there has been slow, steady growth.
However, the index SPECIALTY FASTENERS is still some 7% below pre-recession levels The Clarendon business supplies specialty and over the period 2012 to 2017, aerospace-quality fasteners to the Civil economic growth has been primarily Aerospace focus on aircraft seating and driven by the Services and Retail sectors.
cabin interiors, Motorsport and Industrial 59% INTERCONNECT & Defence markets.
Clarendon supports 21% SPECIALTY FASTENERS In Germany, the Production Sector Output its key customers with its automated 20% FLUID CONTROLS index tracks a strong period of recovery inventory replenishment solution through 2010 and 2011, since when it has Clarendon AIR utilising bespoke slowly increased and is now ca.
5% above dispensing racks located within the pre-recession levels.
57% UK 32% Continental Europe Specific industry drivers Interconnect FLUID CONTROLS and Specialty Fasteners 11% Rest of World The Hawco Group businesses supply Although influenced by the general a range of fluid control products used industrial economic cycles, there are broadly in the Food & Beverage sectors, also more specific drivers within the CUSTOMERS in applications including food retailing main market segments served 31% Aerospace & Defence and transportation, catering equipment, by the Interconnect and Specialty 30% Industrial vending machines, coffee brewing, pure Fasteners businesses.
13% Food & Beverage 14% Motorsport 5% Energy & Utilities Principal operations 5% Medical & Scientific Interconnect 2% Rail IS-Group IS-Rayfast Swindon, UK PRODUCTS IS-Cabletec Weston-super-Mare, UK 45% Wire & Cable IS-Sommer Stuttgart, Germany 22% Fasteners IS-Connect Indianapolis, IN, US 11% Connectors 12% Equipment & Components Filcon Munich, Germany 9% Control Devices Cablecraft Houghton Regis, Tewkesbury & Plymouth, UK 1% Other Controls FS Cables St Albans, UK Specialty Fasteners Clarendon Leicester, Swindon & Totnes, UK: Huntington Beach, CA, US Fluid Controls Hawco Group Godalming, Bolton & Faringdon, UK STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 The Civil Aerospace market continues to UK index of production value grow steadily with growth in world 120 passenger traffic averaging over 6% p. a. over the last five years and with continuing strong order books at Boeing and Airbus.
110 The demand for new aircraft is being driven by the need to replace ageing fleets with more fuel-efficient aircraft and the 100 demand from airlines in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region.
There is increased activity in the cabin interiors 90 market, where the wide range of complex seating and entertainment systems is driving growth.
80 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 In the Defence sector, the UK remains Source: UK Ofce for National Statistics.
Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2010 100. committed to maintaining the NATO spend target of 2% of GDP and defence spending is forecast to increase by an German production sector output including construction average of 1.3% p. a. in real terms through 110 to 2021.
In Germany, in response to the emergence of new perceived threats and pressure to meet NATOs spending target, 100 the government has pledged to increase defence spending from ca.
90 In Motorsport, the major drivers of demand in Formula 1 are the number of 80 races which increased in the 2018 season and teams which remained unchanged in the 2018 season and the level of 70 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 development work related to technology and rule changes which, after significant Source: Deutsche Bundesbank.
Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2015 100. changes in 2017, were not substantial in the 2018 season.
The businesses do supply to other motor racing series, Revenue however, the spend is relatively low in passenger km these series compared to Formula 1.
World passenger trafc annual growth rate growth rate 17 7.6% In the UK, where the current five-year 16 6.3% funding control period runs until April 15 7.1% 2019, investment in Rail infrastructure 14 6.0% continues with electrification projects, 13 5.5% station upgrades, line upgrades and 12 5.3% the final stages of the Crossrail project.
11 6.6% In addition, the design phase of the 10 8.0% first stage of the High Speed Two 09 1.1% HS2 project has commenced, with 08 2.0% construction work expected to run Source: International Civil Aviation Organisation.
More generally, UK infrastructure investment is expected to continue with more than 240bn of investment planned between 2017 18 The Coffee market sector saw continued and home delivery continues.
There is and 2020 21 and a particular focus growth of ca.
7% in 2017 and is forecast to also a drive in the Retail industry to reduce on transport, energy and utilities.
5.5% p. a. over the next four energy consumption and to introduce low Germany, electricity generation and Global Warming Potential GWP years with Abbeychart supplying both the distribution remains a positive sector refrigerants to comply with EU F-Gas coffee machine manufacturers and the due to the fragmented nature of the Aftermarket sector, predominately in the regulations roadmap through to 2022.
In local supply of electricity, where it is UK but also in Europe.
The Vending market 2018, as a first step to the implementation the responsibility of towns and cities.
of tighter regulation, the International sector continues to see modest growth, Electrotechnical Commission voted to driven by the sale of premium products, Specific industry drivers Fluid Controls particularly in the hot drinks segment.
increase charge limits in flammable The Fluid Controls businesses generate refrigerants.
These trends are driving ca.
70% of their revenues from the Food demand for smaller, more energy efficient & Beverage sector in the UK.
In Food components as supplied by Hawco.
Retailing, the trend away from major out-of-town stores to convenience stores 24 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CONTROLS SECTOR PERFORMANCE Interconnect HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE YEAR Reported revenues of the Controls The Interconnect businesses account Sector revenue growth of 9%: Sector businesses increased by 9% to for 59% of Controls revenues and underlying growth of 5% after adjusting 142.4m 2017: 130.7m.
The acquisitions reported an increase in revenues for currency and acquisitions completed of Coast, acquired in October 2017 of 9% in UK sterling terms.
After this year and FS Cables, acquired in August adjusting for the FS Cables acquisition 2018, added 5.1m or 4% to Sector and for currency effects, underlying The Interconnect businesses revenues.
After adjusting for negligible revenues increased by 7% with good delivered underlying growth of 7%: currency movements on revenues from growth in the IS-Group and Cablecraft, the FS Cables acquisition brings a translation to UK sterling and for these more than offsetting the absence range of own-branded specialist wire acquisitions, underlying Sector revenues of major project activity in Filcon.
and cable products increased by 5%, with activity in the final quarter particularly robust in what Clarendon increased underlying The IS-Groups UK businesses reported is normally a slower summer period.
revenues by over 8%, with growth a 18% increase in revenues reflecting driven by broadening its range of good success achieved in broadening Adjusted operating margins were customers in Civil Aerospace: US its customer base across the broader unchanged at 17.6% 2017: 17.6%.
Gross market targeted through the European region, through directly margins improved overall reflecting a acquisition of Coast targeting cable harness houses, as well stronger customer mix in Clarendon, as supplying the traditional network of Fluid Controls revenues reduced by the absence in Fluid Controls of a European sub-distributors.
In Aerospace 4% reflecting the decision to focus large low margin project last year, and Defence, the UK businesses reported on higher margin business and the together with a focus away from lower a strong increase in revenues supported absence of a large one-off project margin air conditioning business.
In by high value repeat orders and new Interconnect, stronger gross margins project wins to expand market share.
in the Cablecraft business offset New projects included the design-in the impact of strategic pricing used of manufactured cables into the KC-46 selectively by the IS-Group to penetrate refuelling tanker, as well as harness new customers within the broader components used on the Crowsnest European region.
Investment in sales Merlin helicopter and the Ajax armoured resources to drive growth for Clarendon fighting vehicle.
An active Industrial in the US and to enhance E-commerce sector also contributed to a strong at Cablecraft contributed to an increase growth in revenues from a broad range in operating costs ahead of revenue.
In Energy, the recovery in Adjusted operating profits increased the oil price has led to renewed activity by 9% to 25.0m 2017: 23.0m.
with demand for products going into subsea applications and Tier4 engines Capital expenditure in Controls increased used in the global fracking and mining to 1.1m 2017: 0.2m, with 0.7m industries.
In Motorsport, revenues invested in the IS-Sommer freehold were flat on the prior year with a facility to expand the existing warehouse much quieter year for development and office capacity.
A further 0.4m was in Formula 1, WRC and the Americas invested in small refurbishment projects Cup, but were partly compensated at both Cablecraft and Clarendons by additional activity in Formula E. Revenue m newly acquired US facility and in compound growth over five years product testing equipment in the UK The IS-Groups German business, businesses.
Free cash flow increased by IS-Sommer, delivered 12% growth 6% to 19.8m 2017: 18.6m reflecting in revenues with particularly strong stronger trading and the additional performances in the Aerospace, Defence 11% p. a. contribution from the acquisitions, partly and Industrial markets.
A new distribution offset by higher capital expenditure.
agreement was concluded during 18 142.4 the year with a leading manufacturer 130.7 17 of specialist aviation cables, which 106.1 16 boosted Aerospace growth.
Defence revenues benefited from supplying 15 91.1 into new programmes to refit and 14 94.6 refurbish Leopard II tanks and Boxer armoured vehicles, as well as the ongoing programme to produce Boxer REVENUE armoured vehicles for the Lithuanian military.
Industrial revenues benefited from the strength of the export led German economy.
Medical revenues 142.4m continued to benefit from design-in efforts initiated in earlier years to help 2018 2017 manufacturers manage strict new European regulations for medical devices.
Revenue 142.4m 130.7m 9% Adjusted operating profit 25.0m 23.0m 9% Adjusted operating margin 17.6% 17.6% Free cash flow 19.8m 18.6m 6% ROATCE 29.8% 32.2% 240bps STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Motorsport sales remained depressed Specialty Fasteners POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH as a result of the withdrawal of Audi The Clarendon Specialty Fasteners and Volkswagen from the German DTM business now accounts for 21% of In Interconnect, create a series.
IS-Sommer was also successful Controls revenues.
The acquisition in the broader-based European cable in extending its distribution contract US of Coast Fabrication Inc rebranded harnessing components business with its main supplier of Energy tubing Clarendon Specialty Fasteners Inc in and extend product range with products to a much larger region October 2017 contributed to a 25% own-branded products within Germany, which will provide increase in revenues.
After adjusting for additional opportunities for growth.
this acquisition, underlying revenues In Interconnect develop cross-selling increased by 8% with growth driven opportunities between Cablecraft Following over 30% revenue growth last principally from increased demand and FS Cables to drive future growth year, Filcon had a tough year with a 26% from customers in a buoyant Civil decrease in revenues due to the absence Aerospace sector.
In this sector In Specialty Fasteners, build on of major project activity, as well as much Clarendon continued to broaden its strong positions in Civil Aerospace lower Motorsport sales following the customer base of major aircraft seating and Motorsport, with a particular withdrawal of Audi and Porsche from and cabin interior manufacturers and focus on the US and Asian markets the Le Mans series and Volkswagen their sub-contractors across Europe from the World Rally Championship.
Clarendon supports its major In Fluid Controls, target the customers by supplying its product business to grow export markets Cablecraft reported a 5% increase in through its automatic inventory in the Food & Beverage industry revenues as it continued to target new replenishment system Clarendon AIR.
end-user customers including panel During the year, the number of sites builders, switchgear manufacturers, operating this system doubled, enabling Industrial OEMs and Contractors.
During Clarendon to better service these the year the business also focused customers requirements and providing Hawco experienced a challenging on substantially refreshing its brand opportunities for further growth.
year with weaker activity in the OEM offering and marketing strategy, to be Refrigeration equipment market as supported by the launch of an enhanced In Clarendons other major market key accounts suffered from a softer E-commerce website in the first quarter of Motorsport, underlying revenue UK Food Retail market, caused by the of the new financial year to target a growth from Formula 1 customers low level of new store openings.
Sales broader range of customers in both was held back by the absence of any to the hospitality trade also slowed as the UK and overseas.
The facility was major rule changes in 2018.
However, chains embarked on programmes to also upgraded, creating an expanded new revenue opportunities arose in rationalise branches and cannibalise and more efficient sales office and projects undertaken for supercar equipment.
In the Contractor market, relocating the Identification Solutions development with major automotive revenues decreased as Hawco focused department to an improved environment OEMs.
Good revenue growth was on the higher margin products and that will help drive future growth.
also achieved in the supply of prepulled back from the lower margin air assembled and captive fasteners and conditioning and cold-room business.
In August 2018, the Group acquired bespoke engineered solutions to the However, revenues from the Industrial FS Cables, an established and leading Defence and Industrial sectors.
OEM market increased through a supplier of specialist cable products to focus on core product lines and on installers, end-users and wholesalers for The US business acquired at the developing broader export markets.
a range of industries including Electrical beginning of the year has made a good Contracting, Home Automation and contribution, with particular success Abbeychart reported strong trading Building Management, Rail, Marine and in the Space Technology sector.
The in its core markets, although revenue Telecommunications.
Based in StAlbans, US business also provides a base to growth was held back by the absence UK, the business primarily supplies build on the success Clarendon has of a large one-off project delivered own-branded products, which are achieved in the aircraft cabin interiors last year refreshing a range of vending market in Europe by targeting the sourced from a portfolio of long-standing machines.
After adjusting for this suppliers.
These products complement US based manufacturers and their project, Abbeychart achieved strong Cablecrafts range of cable accessory subcontractors.
The strong Motorsport revenue growth by focusing on its value products and will provide cross-selling focus complements Clarendons existing added services, such as refurbishment, Motorsport customer base and provides opportunities to both businesses.
kitting and assemblies and through opportunities to increase market share improved marketing.
In particular, good After the year end, in October 2018, from a more focused sales approach.
growth was achieved in the Water, the IS-Group acquired Gremtek, a During the year, investment was made Vending and Soft Drinks sectors where to strengthen sales resources, refurbish long established and leading supplier Abbeychart continues to take market of own branded protective sleeving the facility and upgrade IT systems share.
Abbeychart also continues to and cable identification products to to provide a platform for growth.
strengthen its relationships with key a broad range of industrial markets vending machine operators in Europe Fluid Controls principally in France, but also in Germany through the supply of its range of spare and elsewhere in Europe.
Gremteks The Hawco Group of Fluid Controls parts for Wurlitzer vending machines.
principal location is in Paris, France, businesses accounts for 20% of Controls supported by a facility in Quickborn, revenues and supplies temperature, pressure and fluid control products, Germany.
The business will be integrated into the IS-Group to support principally to the Food & Beverage the strategy of developing a broader industry.
Revenues decreased by 4% Interconnect business across Europe.
against the prior year reflecting the absence of a large one-off project delivered last year and the decision to focus on higher margin products and pull-back from the highly price competitive air conditioning business.
