06 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OUR YEAR IN REVIEW ANOTHER YEAR OF ROBUST GROWTH IN REVENUE AND EARNINGS THE GROUPS STRATEGY, CONSISTENTLY APPLIED, DELIVERS STRONG GROWTH IN EARNINGS AND SHAREHOLDER VALUE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE the decision to focus on higher margin In 2018, the Group delivered another In Life Sciences, underlying revenues business and from the absence of a large year of robust growth in revenue increased by 5% after adjusting for one-off project delivered last year.
and earnings benefiting from strong currency movements and the prior industrial economies in the US and year acquisition of Abacus ALS.
The ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Europe and from the reduction in the Healthcare businesses benefited from Over the last five years, a total of US Federal corporate income tax rate.
strong diagnostic consumable revenues ca.
128m has been invested in and the introduction of new premium acquisitions and ca.
6m has been The Groups reported revenues increased Surgical and Endoscopy products.
The realised from divesting businesses.
by 7%, with currency headwinds decreasing Environmental businesses had a mixed revenues by 3% and acquisitions, net of a year with stronger revenues in Germany, During 2018, the acquisition spend was small disposal this year, contributing 3% to offset by reduced UK revenues because 20.4m of which 16.9m was invested in revenue growth.
On an underlying basis, of delays in placement of orders.
Both the acquisition of FS Cables, a supplier after adjusting for acquisitions, the disposal Environmental businesses continued to of specialist cable products to a range and for the currency effects on translation, benefit from stronger service revenues.
of industries and based in St Albans, UK.
FS Cables fits well within the Controls In Seals, underlying revenues increased Sector alongside Cablecraft, which was The Groups adjusted operating margins by 10% after adjusting for currency acquired in 2016 and provides growth improved by 20bps to 17.5%, compared movements, the prior year acquisitions opportunities through cross-selling to with 17.3% in the prior year and the first of PSP and Edco and the disposal of the new and existing customers.
The small half of the current year.
Gross margins small non-core Bulldog business this year.
non-core US business, Bulldog, was sold remained unchanged from last year, In North America, both the Aftermarket during 2018 for cash proceeds of 4.0m.
despite pressures on supply chains in and Industrial OEM business benefited most Sectors leading to increases in from a buoyant US industrial economy.
In addition, the Group completed product costs and other margin support In the International Seals businesses, a two smaller bolt-on acquisitions in costs.
These pressures were mitigated strong improvement in industrial activity the Controls Sector: Coast, a small during the second half of the year as in the second half of the year provided specialty fastener distributor based selective price increases began to take good growth in European revenues.
Solid in California, US was acquired in effect and with increased availability of growth in Australian revenues was more October 2017 and Gremtek, a supplier inventory.
Adjusted operating costs as a than offset by much weaker trading with of protective own-brand sleeving percentage of revenue have reduced by a major customer in New Caledonia.
products, based in France was acquired 20bps with improved operating leverage after the year end in October 2018. from the increase in revenues and In Controls, underlying revenues generally tight control of operating costs.
increased by 5% after adjusting for currency movements and the Working capital as a percentage of acquisitions this year of FS Cables and revenue was managed down through Coast.
The Interconnect revenues the second half of the year to 15.1%.
benefited from both broadening its The Groups free cash flow increased customer base deeper into Europe by 9% to 60.5m, reflecting very and from stronger industrial markets.
strong cash generation in the second The Specialty Fasteners business also half of the year and boosted by increased revenues from broadening its proceeds of 4.0m from the disposal range of customers in the Civil Aerospace of a small non-core US business.
The Fluid Controls businesses reported lower revenues reflecting STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRONG EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Executive Management Committee EMC comprises the Executive Directors along with the Executive managers who are responsible for the major business clusters and key Group functions.
The EMC members are a combination of internally developed senior managers and experienced senior managers who have been recruited externally.
The EMC has been strengthened this year with experienced senior management who will take responsibility for overseeing and coordinating additional Group functions, including IT and ERP projects carried out across the Group.
A HR senior manager is also being recruited and will join the EMC in the new financial year.
The EMC provides the opportunity for members to broaden their perspective of the Groups activities in order to reinforce the key elements of the Groups culture and to identify best practices that are transferable across the Group.
The EMC meets quarterly through a combination of full group meetings in London and sub-group meetings held in the major business locations.
During this year, the EMC has demonstrated its strength by providing a significant level of stability and support to the businesses in a period of uncertainty caused by the change in CEO.
This has contributed to the strong results reported this year.
