OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating value for our stakeholders Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business offers different propositions to maximise choice for customers.
We believe this approach enables us to provide good value for customers and sustainable returns for ourshareholders.
Our core strengths Our diverse proposition We reach diverse customers by offering Customer focus arange of products through many routes Customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Our brands, products and distribution channels aim to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
Talented people Eight brands We invest in our people, encouraging everyone so that our customers can choose toaim higher.
Our talented people constantly strive the proposition that suits them to improve and innovate to exceed the current and future expectations of our customers.
Four segments Brand power Our well-known and trusted brands offer customers representing a range of products and services decades of experience, knowledge and service.
The scale of being Britains leading motor insurer 1 and one of its leading home insurers gives us a platform for product development.
Multiple channels so that customers can choose Data and technology how they wish to engage with us Continuing our history of disrupting the insurance market, we are harnessing the power of technology Direct and data to make life easier for both our customers Price comparison websites and our people.
Partnerships Capital and financial strength Our cash-generative business model underpinned byproven underwriting discipline, claims excellence and cost control helps us to meet our customers needs whilst targeting sustainable returns for ourshareholders.
Reinvest in the business Note: 1.
Measured by in-force policies see page 7.
Find out more on pages 19 21 Find out more on pages 4 9 22 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we generate returns Sustainable value We target sustainable returns for our shareholders Our objectives are to create value for all our through a combination of investing in future stakeholders, putting our customers first and capabilities, improving efficiency and careful investing in our people, to support the communities riskmanagement.
we live and work in, and to generate sustainable profits for our shareholders.
Pricing We seek to ensure our prices reflect the risks being underwritten by using data and actuarial techniques.
Customers Employees Claims Our new propositions, such as Fast Response Net Promoter Score Engagement seepage 41 and our expanded network of accidentrepair centres delivering our seven day repairproposition see page 21, not only get 145.6pts 81% customers lives back on track quickly but also aimtodeliver high operating efficiency resulting inexcellent claims cost control.
Communities Shareholders Cost control Once again, we reduced our expense ratio during Percentage of staff Dividend per share 2018, absorbing our investment in future capability.
who fundraised We aim to continue to make progress against our orvolunteered on strategic initiatives with a focus on cost and efficiency.
theGroups time Investments As we gather premiums and provide for future claims 28% 29.3p payments we use these assets to invest in a diversified investment portfolio.
Risk framework The Board has an established risk management Dividends modelthat separates responsibility into Three LinesofDefence see page 44 for more details.
Net Investment and Premiums Costs Profit claims other income Find out more on pages 26 37 Find out more on pages 24 25 WWW.
