Dominos Pizza Group plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The official food of The Dominos business in the UK is built on the entrepreneurial drive and operational expertise of our 64 franchisees, and its our job to make sure they have everything they need to provide fantastic service, day in, day out.
We deliver fresh dough and almost all Food costs are crucial too.
Our scale and We also recognise that some new other supplies to every store three or four sourcing expertise allows us to procure stores will take longer to pay back the franchisees investment than others.
Its essential that these top-quality ingredients at attractive many instances we offer incentives which deliveries are timely and accurate, and prices, with these scale benefits shared on average are worth 75,000 per new in 2018 we achieved order accuracy of across all franchisees.
In addition, we store an investment of 3.4m in 2018.
But we still want to do better, provide extra discounts on food supplies and are aiming to get that even higher when a customer offer warrants it, and Finally, our development of eCommerce in future.
we invested 2.1m in such campaigns and app platforms have driven very during 2018. strong levels of order growth for franchisees over the last five years, leading to a material increase in store profitability.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 09 FRANCHISEES NEW STORE INCENTIVES DPG IT COMMITMENT 64 34m p. a.
10m IN 2017 WE LAUNCHED OUR GPS SERVICE, WITH SIGNIFICANT BENEFITS FOR FRANCHISEES AND CUSTOMERS ALIKE.
When a store activates GPS, every driver For customers, the upgraded pizza starts to use a GPS-enabled handset which tracker allows them to follow the progress automatically provides them with the of their delivery through the streets and fastest route to their next delivery as well provides much more accurate delivery as tracking their location and progress.
This makes the job much easier for drivers and means store managers can assess performance and timeliness much more accurately.
This has led to immediate improvements in labour efficiency, lowering See more online at costs and reducing delivery times.
co. uk Dominos Pizza Group plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The official food of Over the last two years weve made important investments in new markets to enhance the long term growth prospects for the Group.
Besides the UK and the Republic of In Iceland, Dominos has a very strong In Norway, the acquisition of Dolly Ireland, we now operate Dominos market position.
It has the highest sales Dimples has given us valuable scale businesses in four further countries per store of any Dominos business in see opposite.
We see a clear place where customers love pizza and the the world, generates strong margins and in the market for a delivery-focused penetration of international pizza brands cash flow, and still has the potential for pizza operator, but our first priority is to is low.
Longer term, we see potential for future growth.
stabilise the business and improve the over 300 stores across these markets, store profitability model.
In Switzerland, we have made compared to a base of 108 stores today.
considerable operational improvements In Sweden we have just nine stores, While still loss-making, these markets under our ownership, growing order but the size of the market and the have the long term potential for attractive volumes and increasing digital fragmentation of the sector leaves scope profitable growth.
We are still losing money for Dominos to become a large and but we aim to gain profitable scale profitable player.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 11 INTERNATIONAL STORES INTL SYSTEM SALES SALES GROWTH 108 104.1m 7.7% IN 2017 WE ACQUIRED DOLLY DIMPLES, A MAINLY DINE-IN CHAIN THAT WAS THE NUMBER THREE OPERATOR IN THE NORWEGIAN PIZZA MARKET.
Since then, we have been busy converting By the end of 2018 we had converted these stores, evolving them to the 19 stores, typically doubling order Dominos delivery and collection model counts and increasing sales by 50% or while remaining sympathetic to more.
We do, however, have more work the existing customer base.
to do on finding the right formula for store profitability and completing the integration to build a stable base for profitable growth.
See more online at https: investors.
co. uk Dominos Pizza Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The official food of Our mission is to be the number one pizza company in every neighbourhood.
The closer we are to our customers, the quicker they get their pizza and the more frequently they order.
Proximity also leads to additional new customers and typically wont have Finally we are always thinking of ways to collection business, which is a valuable branded competitors.
reach new customers, and during 2018 source of future growth.
we ran a trial on Just Eat, the leading We also see a great opportunity in selling online menu marketplace, to increase We believe there is room for 1,600 stores more pizza to every household.
In 2018, recruitment of younger customers who in the UK approximately 500 more than our average sales per address per week prefer to order through a single app.
our current base of 1,103 stores.
This has risen by 35% In 2019 we are extending the trial to of these new stores will be in existing over the last five years.
territories, improving delivery times and stores with ASPA over 1.50 and some reaching new addresses as the urban over 2 so there is a significant amount population grows.
Some of them will of future growth potential.
be in smaller towns, where we can win Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 13 UK STORE POTENTIAL ADDRESSES SERVED AVERAGE DELIVERY TIME 1,600 25.5m 25 mins LONDON IS A HUGE AND THRIVING MARKET FOR DELIVERED FOOD, BUT DOMINOS DOES NOT HAVE A BIG ENOUGH PRESENCE THERE.
It represents around a quarter of UK In 2017 we acquired a majority stake consumer spending but only 13% of our in the largest London franchisee, UK system sales in 2018.
It is a key part of with 25 stores.
Through 2018 we have our long term growth plans, with scope for significantly improved commercial around a further 80 stores in the coming performance through investing in store years from a base of 144 in 2018. managers and trialling lower menu prices.
Weve also extended two stores, acquired six and opened two more.
