Dominos Pizza Group plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Board of Directors The Board of Directors are responsible for determining the overall strategy of the Group.
The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors ensures that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Stephen Hemsley Colin Halpern David Wild David Bauernfeind Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer APPOINTED APPOINTED APPOINTED APPOINTED Stephen joined the Board as Colin was appointed to the Board David was appointed to the Board David was appointed to the Finance Director in 1998, was as non-executive Vice-Chairman in as a non-executive Director in Board as Chief Financial Officer appointed as Chief Executive in December 2007, prior to which he November 2013, became Interim and Executive Director in 2001 and as Executive Chairman in was the Executive Chairman from Chief Executive Officer in January October 2018.
2008 and became non-executive founding the Company.
2014 and was appointed as Chief Chairman in March 2010.
EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE Stephen started his career at Colin acquired the Dominos David was previously Chief David was previously Chief the venture capital specialists Pizza Master Franchise Executive Officer of Halfords Financial Officer of Connect 3i where, after nearly 10 years, Agreement for the UK and ROI Group plc and held senior Group PLC.
Prior to this, he he had direct responsibility in 1993 through International roles within Walmart Stores was Chief Financial Officer for an offshore portfolio of Franchise Systems Inc.
In 1999, Inc. Tesco Stores plc and and Executive Director at approximately 100m.
He is with Colin as Chairman, the RHM Foods Limited.
He joined a chartered accountant by Company was taken public and also Senior Independent Xchanging as a small start-up profession and has extensive listed on AIM and subsequently Director of Premier Foods and in 2001 and remained with the history within Dominos Pizza.
moved to the Main Market a non-executive Director of company for 15 years as it grew Upon joining in 1998, he saw in 2008.
Practicology Limited and The into an established business the Company through its IPO Bankers Investment Trust.
and listed on the London Stock on AIM and has taken it from a Exchange with 7,000 people market capitalisation of 25m across three continents.
to over 1bn today, and from David was also previously nearly 100 UK stores to over Chairman of Xchanging 1,000 stores spanning the UK, Solutions Limited and has held Irish, and International Markets.
management roles in BAE Systems PLC and Johnson Matthey PLC.
OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS Stephen is also Executive Colin is the Managing Director David is currently Senior David is currently Chairman Chairman of AIM-listed Franchise of HS Real Company LLC and Independent Director of Ten of the Audit Committee and a Brands plc and its subsidiary Medtrx Holdings LLC and nonEntertainment Group plc.
member of the Remuneration companies.
executive Director of several and Nomination Committees of other companies.
COMMITTEES COMMITTEES COMMITTEES COMMITTEES COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 49 Steve Barber Kevin Higgins Ebbe Jacobsen Helen Keays Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director APPOINTED APPOINTED APPOINTED APPOINTED Steve was appointed to the Board Kevin was appointed to the Board Ebbe was appointed to the Board Helen was appointed to the as a non-executive Director in as a non-executive Director in as a non-executive Director in Board in September 2011 and July 2015.
January 2014. was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 20 April 2016.
EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE Steve has almost 30 Kevins career spans more Ebbe has wide experience Helen has over 20 years years experience in than 20 years in branded of operating in Germany and experience in travel, retail, accountancy, principally with consumer foods in both Europe other European countries, most consumer markets and , and the United States.
He has recently with Delsey.
He has telecoms, having held a where he was a senior previously served as President been in retail all his working number of other non-executive partner, and also with Ernst of Burger King Europe, Middle life and has pan-EU retail directorships, including most & Young.
He has also worked East and Africa.
Prior to his role knowledge with significant recently at Majestic Wine and in industry, and was formerly with Burger King, Kevin served experience in franchising, Communisis plc.
The majority the Chief Operating Officer of as General Manager of Yum!
multi-site and single brand of her executive career was Whitehead Mann, the Finance Brands Pizza Hut, KFC and retail.
He pioneered the spent at GE Capital and Director of Mirror Group plc Taco Bell Europe and Russia introduction of US fast food Vodafone, where she held and a non-executive Director Franchise Business Unit based chain Burger King into the various senior marketing roles.
of Next plc for 10 years in Switzerland.
Earlier in his Nordic countries in the 1970s where he also chaired the career he held executive roles and held the position of Audit Committee.
Director and Operating Partner when the franchise was sold in 1985.
Other significant retail experience includes having been CEO of IKEA in Germany, CEO of Delsey and CEO of Habitat.
OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS OTHER APPOINTMENTS Steve is a founder of The Kevin is currently non-executive Ebbe is currently Chairman Helen is currently a non-executive Objectivity Partnership, a member Chairman of Lunch Garden, of Mors Jernstberi A S, Director of Nichols plc and a of the steering group of the a Belgian restaurant and a stove manufacturer.
trustee of the Shakespeare Audit Quality Forum, and a noncatering chain.
executive Director of Fenwick Limited and the AA plc.
