Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 39 Viability statement THE COMPANYS CURRENT POSITION The resulting agreed strategic plan The key assumption in this modelling is generally prepared on a five-year of our strategy, and the impact of the The Groups business model has basis, but both management and the principal risks, is our assessment of been shown to be robust since the Board are aware that we operate in a sustainable growth through new store business was formed.
While a number of industry under what is effectively a perpetual commentators believe there is a Master Franchise Agreement in each THE PROCESS OF ASSESSING OUR natural ceiling on the number of pizza key territory, so our business model VIABILITY AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS stores we can open, the Group has is long-term and effectively openThe strategic plan reflects the consistently delivered ahead of these ended.
The Groups strategy and Directors best estimate of the future predictions and we continue to assume business model which is explained prospects of the business, but we have that the markets in which we operate, on pages 16 to 23, is well established also assessed the potential impact on particularly the UK, remain capable and we have a market-leading position the Group of a number of scenarios of sustaining the growth in new stores in the UK and ROI business and have based on each of the principal risks we anticipate.
successfully exploited the emergence and uncertainties described in this of eCommerce as a sales channel.
We also investigated whether section of the Annual Report.
Those We continue to open new pizza stores reverse stress-testing would offer risks are principal because they could and drive increases in like-for-like sales, an alternative view.
Although we prevent the Group from delivering on its and can demonstrate strong growth have net debt and a committed bank strategy.
Although our strategic plans in system sales, and Group turnover facility, we could find no plausible have a five-year horizon, we chose to and profitability, over many years.
scenario which had such an impact model the impact of these risks over Our business is profitable and we on the Groups future performance, a period of three years in view of the successfully convert almost all of solvency or liquidity that it would dynamic nature of our business and this into cash.
At 30 December 2018, lead to the Groups financial failure.
the environment in which we operate, the Group has net debt of 203.3m The most obvious risk which could and also the inherent unreliability of and a committed 350m five-year have such an effect would be a some data when forecast five years multi-currency bank facility, which breach of the UK and Ireland Master in advance.
Franchise Agreement, which is We have also explored the impact of highly improbable.
The Board has considered its severe but plausible combinations appetite for risk and there is a clearly LONGER-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT of these risks, in circumstances that articulated statement of this which we believe the Group could Based on their assessment of prospects forms the basis for the Groups risk experience, including: and viability above, the Directors confirm management activities.
that they have a reasonable expectation only managing to open 30% of OUR STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS that the Group will be able to continue in the planned number of new pizza operation and meet its liabilities as they The CEO, supported by the leadership stores, while fall due over the three-year period to the team, is responsible for the Groups simultaneously failing to achieve any end of December 2021. strategic planning process.
This is an like-for-like system sales growth: annual review of the current strategy, a major food safety incident informed by monitoring of market reducing system sales by up to 10% trends and developments and in-house per annum: analysis, supported where necessary by external market research.
This results reduced trading margins due to food in a draft strategic plan, supported by cost increases arising from the UK detailed financial modelling, which exiting the EU and having to trade on is debated by the Board at its annual WTO terms: and strategy away-day.
The Boards role the complete failure of our includes considering whether the plan eCommerce ordering systems during appropriately factors in the changing an average week of our trading year.
external environment and whether the Group has access to the financial, technical and human resources necessary to implement it successfully.
