PERFORMANCE REVIEW: PELLET PRODUCTION Increased production and Adjusted EBITDA growth Our pellets provide a sustainable, low-carbon fuel source one that can be safely and efficiently delivered through our global supply chain and used by Draxs Power Generation business to make flexible renewable electricity for the UK.
Our manufacturing operations also promote forest health by incentivising local landowners to actively manage and reinvest in their forests.
INCREASING SUPPLY CHAIN ForestScope was launched at two Sales of pellets in the TRANSPARENCY AND FOSTERING stakeholder engagement briefings in year ending 31 December STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT June and July 2018.
The London and 2018 totalled 214 million, We launched ForestScope.
info, an Brussels events led to important an increase of interactive digital tool that tracks Draxs discussions with organisations such global supply chains in order to showcase as WWF, Client Earth and the Natural the location and types of fibre we source, Resources Defence Council NRDC.
57% as well as key growth and inventory trends over 2017 in the areas from which we source.
We invite feedback from stakeholders to improve ForestScope and the Its depth of information, and accessibility sustainability of our operations.
for non-experts, makes it an important Find out more: tool for informing and engaging the range of stakeholders with an interest in Draxs biomass sustainability and sourcing practices.
info 16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASE STUDY Hunt Forest Products The wood products industry produces large quantities of residual materials.
Drax is making use of this and forming part of a virtuous cycle that benefits the forestry sector, rural communities and the environment.
With the world growing increasingly digital, the markets for residuals for FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND KPIs Through incremental investment in plant pulp have been in decline.
But with the Adjusted EBITDA of 21 million grew enhancements we expect to see further growth of markets for biomass, in the significantly compared to 2017 6 million, benefits from efficiencies and greater form of sustainable wood pellets driven by increasing volumes of pellets utilisation of lower cost residues.
which can utilize the same residuals produced and sold to the Power for production of pellets and other Generation business on an arms-length Operating costs vary with throughput and parts of the process there remains basis and lower production costs per increased in 2018, reflecting increased a sustained demand and market for tonne.
This reflects operational pellet production levels and throughput this material.
efficiencies and greater utilisation of lower at the Port of Baton Rouge.
value forestry materials such as sawmill As this alternative market continues to residues.
Revenue in the year ended KPIs reflect a good performance on grow, so will demand.
Finding ways in 31 December 2018 totalled 214 million, reducing the cost of production, which which this market can be made more an increase of over 50% versus 2017. was ahead of target offset by the level efficient now could lead to benefits of fines being significantly below target.
Raw fibre procurement, transportation Good quality pellets at the lowest cost is and processing comprised the majority a key focus for the business and we will A collaboration between Drax and of cost of sales and as such this continue to work to improve quality and Louisiana-based Hunt Forest Products remains an important area of focus reduce cost during 2019. is helping to do precisely this through and an opportunity for the business.
investment in a co-location site in Urania, LA, which will see a sawmill FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE and pellet facility sitting side by side.
Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 This innovative co-operation will help Exceptional Exceptional Adjusted items and Total Adjusted items and Total cut costs at our LaSalle plant, save m 2018 Remeasurements results 2017 Remeasurements results time, reduce transportation emissions, Revenue 213.7 213.7 135.7 135.7 and deliver further efficiencies.
com sawmill KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI Unit of measure 2018 2017 Fines % 8.0 9.6 Cost of production $ GJ 9.4 10.4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 17
