CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Executive Committee members CLARE HARBORD 1 2 4 Group Director of Corporate Affairs Clare has extensive experience in public affairs, communications and stakeholder relations.
Before joining Drax, Clare worked at Heathrow, the worlds third busiest airport, where she was Director of Corporate Affairs for six years.
Clares previous experience also includes roles as Director of Communications at both the Ministry of Justice and E. ON.
Clare leads the Groups internal and external communications, brand, public affairs and corporate social responsibility strategies.
She also has responsibility for sustainability, regulation, policy and compliance.
3 4 Appointment to the Executive Committee: May 2017, having joined the Group at the same time.
JONATHAN KINI 5 Chief Executive, Drax Retail Jonathan spent a decade in director-level roles in telecoms, covering customer operations, finance, marketing and commercial.
He was previously Director of SME at Vodafone, leading the strategy for UK products and services to small to medium-sized enterprises.
Prior to that he was Customer 5 6 Service Director at Virgin Media.
Jonathan oversees business operations and champions Draxs retail strategy across Haven Power and Opus Energy, leading a customer-focused approach to energy sustainability, energy management and providing 100% UK-based renewable energy.
Appointment to the Executive Committee: September 2016, having joined the Group in January 2016.
WILL GARDINER PENNY SMALL 1 6 Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Transformation Officer Will was appointed to the Executive Committee on joining the Group Penny has a wealth of experience in the energy industry, and has led major in November 2015. integration and transformation projects, including the integration of International Power and GDF Suez.
She was previously Director of Asset Optimisation and Digital at Engie and, prior to that, was Director of Strategy and Communications.
Penny ensures best practice is applied across our Retail and IT transformation programmes.
She is responsible for overseeing HR, ANDY SKELTON Legal, Company Secretarial, as well as Strategy and M&A functions.
2 Group Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Executive Committee: November 2018, having joined Andy was appointed to the Executive Committee on joining the Group the Group at the same time.
ANDY KOSS GENDER DIVERSITY 3 Chief Executive, Drax Power As at 31 December 2018 Andy was appointed to the Executive Committee in March 2015, Male 60% having joined the Group in June 2005.
Female 40% Full biography on page 52.
Note: Andy Skelton is not included in the above analysis as he was not appointed until 2 January 2019.
54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ROLE OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE 2018 The Executive Committee focuses on The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by members the Groups strategy, financial structure, of the Executive Committee during 2018. planning and performance, succession planning, organisational development Date appointed as a Maximum Number of % of and Group-wide policies.
member of the current possible meetings meetings Executive Committee meetings attended attended Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 11 11 100% HOW THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS Clare Harbord 9 May 2017 11 11 100% The Executive Committee receives regular Jonathan Kini 1 September 2016 11 11 100% reports on performance against the Andy Koss 1 March 2015 11 11 100% Business Plan and periodic business Penny Small 5 November 2018 2 2 100% reports from each of the business units.
Papers are distributed in advance of meetings, to brief members on matters to be discussed.
Members also receive Number of meetings presentations on various business The Executive Committee has 11 scheduled issues by senior managers within the meetings each calendar year and arranges business units.
COMPOSITION With the exception of Penny Small, Chief Transformation Officer, who was appointed a member in November 2018 and Andy Skelton, who joined the Committee in January 2019, all of those listed opposite served on the Executive Committee throughout the year and all continued to be members at the date of this report.
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES 2018 ACTIVITIES HEALTH AND SAFETY STRATEGY GENERATION GOVERNANCE Considered regular updates Monitored the progression Review of Beyond Coal Considered GDPR Privacy from business units: deep of the first phase of the initiative and ancillary Policy, gender pay gap dive analysis and lessons repowering project.
reporting and review of learned from the fire on Consideration of acquisition Conversion and certain Group policies the biomass fuel handling of a portfolio of assets from commissioning of fourth including Security, facilities in December 2017: ScottishPower.
Environment and Health increased focus on process and reviewed options for and Safety.
safety as well as behavioural flexible gas generation and RETAIL safety: reviewed governance considered tactics for the Considered Retail CAPITAL RESTRUCTURE process in respect of the Capacity Market auction.
transformation plan to Considered refinancing health, safety and wellbeing develop new supply platform.
proposal, and optimum reporting across the Group.
BIOMASS Monitored continued financing for acquisition Reviewed successful integration of Opus Energy of ScottishPower NEW PEOPLE STRATEGY commissioning of third pellet and a detailed review of the generation assets.
Monitored continued roll-out plant ahead of schedule.
business one year on from including People Plan Monitored biomass acquisition.
Roadmap, Big Picture optimisation strategy and Communication approach biomass procurement update.
and the introduction of a new deferred cash award plan One Drax Awards for eligible employees below Board level to recognise and reward high performers and employees whose behaviours underpin our culture.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 55
