VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 12 months required by the going concern provision.
The assessment of viability was led by the REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Groups principal risks and The Plan considers the Groups financial Officer in conjunction with divisional uncertainties, set out in detail on position, performance, cash flows, credit and functional management teams and pages 44 to 49, have been considered metrics and other key financial ratios and presented to the Board as part of the over the period.
was most recently updated to reflect annual planning process.
In reviewing current market and external environment this assessment, the Board has considered The principal risks with the potential to conditions in December 2018.
It is built the principal risks faced by the Group, exert significant influence on viability are: by business and segment, and includes relevant financial forecasts and commodity price changes, political and growth assumptions appropriate to the sensitivities, the availability of adequate regulatory changes, and plant operating markets each business serves.
The Plan funding and the strength of the Groups failures.
A significant adverse change to for 2019 includes the generation and control environment.
the status of each risk has the potential other assets acquired from ScottishPower to place material financial stress on on 31 December 2018.
The Board conducted this assessment The Plan includes certain assumptions, over a period of three years, selected for The risks were evaluated, where possible, the most material of which relate to the following reasons: to assess the potential impact of each on commodity market price curves and levels the viability of the Group, should that risk of subsidy support available to the Group The Groups Business Plan Plan, which arise in its unmitigated form.
The potential through the generation of biomass-fueled is prepared annually, updated twice inputs were included, where appropriate, renewable power.
It is underpinned by the during the year and also used for as sensitivities to the Plan and considered stable revenues available through the strategic decision making, includes by the Board as part of the approval generation of CfD-backed electricity a range of financial forecasts and process, in January 2019, before the and contracted sales to B2B Energy associated sensitivity analysis.
This Plan Plan was adopted by the Group.
covers a three-year period in detail, before extending into the medium term.
The Group has a proven track record of The Plan is subject to stress testing, which Within the three-year period liquid adapting to changes to its environment involves the construction of reasonably commodity market curves and and deploying innovative solutions to foreseeable scenarios, including those established contract positions are used protect financial performance.
Adverse aligned to the principal risks, which test in the forecasts.
Liquid curves typically events over the past 18 months have the robustness of the Plan when key cover a one to two-year window and tested the ability of the Group to deliver its variables are flexed both individually contracts cover periods between one targets, but on each occasion it has been and in unison.
In particular, the Group able to respond positively and manage benefits from the stable and material the impact.
This provides the Board with Scenarios were constructed to earnings stream available from the CfD confidence that risks can be mitigated, consider the financial impact of Principal until 2027.
Selecting a three-year period and viability can be maintained, during Risks occuring during the period, balances short-term market liquidity the assessment period.
either as one-off events e. g significant against longer term contractual positions.
outage or a sustained downturn There is limited certainty around the The Board also considered the impact of e. g commodity prices.
Groups markets and regulatory regimes.
Brexit, concluding that the Groups FX However, in selecting a three-year period hedging programme provides mitigation Where such scenarios suggest a risk to the Board has assumed no material against FX volatility, whilst recognising viability, the availability and quantum of changes to the medium term regulatory that a material carbon asset may exist mitigating actions is considered and the environment and associated support in the event of a no deal Brexit.
scenario is reassessed including plausible regimes beyond those already mitigations, which include acceleration announced at the date of this report.
of cash receipts, reductions to capital expenditure and operating costs and changes to trading strategies.
42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Board considers the most material the Group with the ability to access debt scenario in the assessment period to be markets, should that need arise during a significant deterioration of commodity the viability assessment period.
Details market prices, leading to a fall in the of current facilities are described on available price for power and thus a fall in page 40 of the Group Financial Review, the margins available to the Group from and in Note 4.3 to the Consolidated power generation and supply activities.
This is based on a low case where power prices fall by greater than 10 MWh from On 2 January 2019, the Group drew base case assumptions.
This impact would down 550 million of its 725 million however be partially mitigated through acquisition facility maturing by July 2020 the earnings stability provided by the CfD, to support the acquisition of assets the Groups ability to trade effectively from ScottishPower.
The Group is well in volatile power markets and reductions positioned to refinance the acquisition to discretionary expenditure.
facility promptly and the Board is confident that the Group has access to The Plan also included assessment of a range of options to maintain a robust a scenario considering the risk of the capital structure.
recently-suspended capacity market remaining closed during the period.
The EXPECTATIONS Board believes that the Capacity Market The directors have considered a range of will be reinstated in some form during factors in their assessment of viability over 2019, but mitigating actions are available the next three years, including the latest if this does not occur.
Plan, scenario analysis, levels of funding, the control environment and the principal Based on its review, the Board is satisfied risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
the viability of the Group would be The directors have also considered preserved in a range of scenarios, the availability of actions within their including significant deterioration control in the event of plausible negative of commodity market prices.
They therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING will be able to continue in operation and The sources of funding available to the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Group are set out in note 4.3 to the three-year period of their assessment.
Consolidated financial statements see page 142.
The Board expects these sources, along with stable cash flows generated by the Group from its normal operations, to provide adequate levels of funding to support the execution of the Groups Plan.
During the year the Group restructured its debt facilities, including the placement of a new $300 million bond, maturing in November 2025, to fix future debt service costs.
The existence of established bond facilities, across the UK and US, provides Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 43
