CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: LETTER FROM THE CHAIR Setting the right standards on governance helps protect the business and the interest of stakeholders.
Philip Cox CBE Chair, Drax Group DEAR SHAREHOLDERS challenges ahead through our strategic BOARD CHANGES I am pleased to present our Corporate planning.
We invited experts from outside The Board has seen a number of changes Governance Report for 2018.
We believe the Company to share their insights and in 2018.
In January, Will Gardiner became that good governance is essential to experience with the Board, which provided Group CEO, succeeding Dorothy our continued success.
The Board is us with a broader understanding of the Thompson who retired.
His appointment committed to upholding the highest factors affecting our markets, assets followed a thorough review of internal standards of governance and works and communities.
and external candidates and was a closely with the executive team to do so.
natural successor after two years as CFO We are supportive of the new 2018 Our people employees and contractors working alongside Dorothy developing Corporate Governance Code 2018 Code remain a key asset of the business and the Groups strategy.
and are actively engaged in considering their safety is a long-held commitment how we can most effectively apply of our operational philosophy.
We pay In October we announced the the principles.
particular regard to our safety appointment of Andy Skelton as Group performance and received regular CFO who joined us in January 2019.
Andy The Board consists of a strong team updates from management.
is highly experienced, having previously with a wide range of experience across served as CFO at Fidessa Group and held various industries.
Board membership It is important that our decisions as senior finance positions at CSR, Ericsson has increased this year, as we continue to a Board are informed by long-term and Marconi.
refresh our skills, experience and diversity.
Actions taken today will shape the future performance of Drax I would like to extend my thanks to Den KEY AREAS OF FOCUS and determine our impact on the world.
Jones for his excellent job as Interim CFO, In 2018 we made strong progress with the By providing both support and challenge supporting the delivery of the strategy strategy we announced in December 2016, to management, in terms of how they and the acquisition of the ScottishPower ending the year with the successful address material issues, we have helped assets.
Den will remain with the Group acquisition of a portfolio of flexible, low to develop ongoing opportunities for the until May 2019 to support the process carbon and renewable generation assets.
business and to protect the long-term of integrating those assets.
During 2018, we also spent a great deal I am delighted to welcome Vanessa Simms of time discussing the wider economic, to the Board who joined as a Non-executive political and regulatory environment director in June 2018.
As reported in our and considering the impact on Drax, Annual Report last year, Nicola Hodson addressing the opportunities and joined in January 2018.
Details of these new appointments can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 65.
50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR VALUES Honest We say what we mean and do what we say, were genuine and true to our word Energised Were passionate about our daily activities and have the drive to turn ideas into action Achieving Were focused on our goals and determined to succeed.
We work hard to deliver innovative solutions to help us do things better, for the benefit of the Group Together We work collaboratively with our colleagues, customers and stakeholders with a friendly approach and recognise the value each of us brings to achieving our Group vision CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Board, through the Nomination Our aim is to maintain an open and We recognise the importance of diversity Committee, also regularly reviews the collaborative culture across all areas of the within the Group and we report on Board length of tenure, skills and experience business.
We believe that an effective and and Executive Committee composition of the Board.
well embedded corporate culture helps and diversity on pages 52 to 54.
We have to create a successful business.
This will set a clear target to increase female Maintaining the highest standards of continue to be a key focus of the Board.
representation in senior leadership across corporate governance across the Group the Group, to build a more diverse and is a priority for the Board.
This is integral Good governance and behaviours are inclusive business.
By the end of 2020 to the delivery of our strategy and for essential characteristics of how a our aim is to have 40% of senior leadership creating sustainable long-term value successful business is run and how it roles Executive Committee and career for the benefit of our shareholders reports, and we place high expectations on levels 1 to 3 held by women.
At the end and stakeholders.
ourselves and therefore all of our people.
Setting the right standards helps to Philip Cox CBE protect the business and the interests We are committed to regular reviews of our Chair of our stakeholders.
succession planning, making sure that it is aligned to the Groups strategy.
In addition BOARD INDUCTION AND EVALUATION to the succession planning for Board roles, A comprehensive induction programme the Nomination Committee received an is important for all of our new Board update from the Group People Director members.
Both Nicola and Vanessa on succession planning for senior participated during 2018.
We also run management and the talent pipeline.
a programme of continuing evaluation for the Board to assess its effectiveness.
Throughout the year, directors took More details of our evaluation and opportunities to meet with senior induction processes in the year are set management across the Group including out on pages 65 and 68. at the leadership team meeting in York and other informal discussions throughout the year.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 51
