CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board provides strong stewardship of the Group, shaping our purpose and strategy to generate sustainable long-term value.
WILL GARDINER 1 1 2 Group Chief Executive Officer Will joined Drax in 2015 as CFO and was appointed as CEO in January 2018.
He has a wealth of experience in finance and technology, having held CFO and divisional Finance Director roles at a number of major companies.
Will has been a key architect of our flexible, low-carbon, customer-focused strategy, and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of Drax Group, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
He provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for important external relationships and stakeholder management.
Will is also a non-executive director of Qardio plc.
3 4 Appointment to the Board: November 2015.
ANDY SKELTON 2 Chief Financial Officer Andy joined Drax as CFO in January 2019.
He was previously CFO at Fidessa Group plc and has held a number of senior finance positions at CSR plc, Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as CFO of Ericsson Nikola Tesla.
His strong finance and commercial skills, alongside substantial experience in the technology sector, will be a valuable addition to the Board.
Andy is 5 6 responsible for the Financial Control and Planning, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations, Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
Appointment to the Board: January 2019.
ANDY KOSS 3 Chief Executive, Drax Power Andy joined Drax in 2005 and has held a number of senior roles at Drax including Director of Strategy, Head of Investor Relations, Group Treasurer and Head of Risk.
He has also held several senior treasury and investment banking roles with various major institutions.
Andy is responsible for the safety, 7 8 sustainability, operational excellence and expertise within Drax Power.
Andy is also a board member of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership.
Appointment to the Board: January 2016.
9 10 52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GENDER DIVERSITY COMPOSITION TENURE IN YEARS KEY TO COMMITTEES As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2018 A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee Female 22% Non-executive 67% 0-3 56% Male 78% Executive 22% 4-6 11% R Remuneration Committee Chairman 11% 7-9 22% Chair of Committee 10 11% Note: Andy Skelton is not included in the above analysis as he was not appointed as a director until 2 January 2019.
PHILIP COX CBE DAVID LINDSELL N R A N R 4 7 Chair Senior Independent non-executive director Philip has extensive experience in both executive and non-executive roles, David has extensive financial, audit and regulatory experience, which has been and in the energy sector.
He is interim Executive Chair of Kier Group plc and a significant asset to the Board in his role as Chair of the Audit Committee.
was previously CEO and formerly CFO of International Power plc.
Prior to this During his executive career, David was a Partner at Ernst & Young LLP and was he held a senior operational position at Invensys plc and was CFO at Siebe plc.
Deputy Chair of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
He was a non-executive As a non-executive he was previously the Senior Independent Director director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at Premier Oil plc and a at Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc, Chairman of Global Power Generation non-executive director of HellermannTyton Group PLC.
David will retire from and a member of the boards of Talen Energy Corporation, PPL, Meggitt plc the Board following the AGM in April 2019. and Wincanton plc.
His responsibilities at Drax include Board composition Appointment to the Board: December 2008. and succession, Board governance and stakeholder engagement.
Appointment to the Board: January 2015.
DAVID NUSSBAUM A N R 8 Appointment as Chair: April 2015.
Independent non-executive director David brings a wealth of experience in international development and environmental, community and charitable matters.
David is CEO of The Elders, TIM COBBOLD A N R 5 a group of independent global leaders working to promote peace and human Independent non-executive director rights, and Deputy Chair of the International Integrated Reporting Council.
He Tim has substantial experience in finance, engineering and executive was previously CEO of World Wide Fund for Nature UK, CEO of Transparency leadership in different sectors, which means that he is well placed to International, Finance Director and Deputy CEO of Oxfam and Finance Director contribute significantly to the Board and its committees.
He is currently a of Field Group plc.
In a non-executive capacity, David was Vice-Chair of Shared non-executive director of Rotork plc.
Tim was previously CEO of UBM plc, CEO Interest Society, Chairman of Traidcraft plc and a non-executive director of of fide La Rue plc, CEO of Chloride Group plc and, following Emerson Electrics Low Carbon Accelerator Limited.
takeover of Chloride, held a senior position in Emerson.
Prior to that he held a number of senior positions in Smith Group plc.
Tim will retire from the Appointment to the Board: August 2017.
VANESSA SIMMS Appointment to the Board: September 2010.
A N R 9 Independent non-executive director Vanessa has extensive experience in senior finance roles across different NICOLA HODSON A N R 6 industries, including real estate, telecommunications and medical devices.
Independent non-executive director She is currently CFO of Grainger plc and has worked in finance for 20 years, Nicola brings valuable technology expertise as well as having extensive holding a number of senior positions within Unite Group plc, including deputy sales and IT experience.
She is currently Vice-President, Global Sales and chief financial officer.
Prior to that Vanessa was UK finance director at Marketing, Field Transformation at Microsoft, and was General Manager FS, PS, SEGRO plc.
Vanessas current and relevant financial experience will be Manufacturing, Sales and Marketing Director at Siemens.
Nicola was formerly invaluable to the Board as she transitions to take over as Chair of the a non-executive director at Ofgem, a Board member at the UK Council for Audit Committee in April 2019.
Child Internet Safety and at the Child Exploitation and Online Protection group.
Nicola will succeed Tony Thorne as the Remuneration Committee Chair in Appointment to the Board: June 2018.
TONY THORNE Appointment to the Board: January 2018.
A N R 10 Independent non-executive director Tonys broad experience of operating in leadership roles in different geographies is of great value to the Board as the Groups operations develop.
During his executive career, Tony was CEO of DS Smith plc and President of SCA Packaging Limited.
He worked throughout the world in senior management roles for Shell International.
He was the non-executive Chairman of South East Coast Ambulance Service.
Tony will retire from the Board in June 2019.
Appointment to the Board: June 2010.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 53
