MARKET CONTEXT Delivering tomorrows sustainable energy Drax operates in a dynamic, rapidly changing market.
2018 saw the 10th Anniversary of long-term strategy is only slightly less the Climate Change Act the Act which bullish when it concludes electricity has transformed the UK energy market will need to meet 50% of primary and has demonstrated that market energy demand.
instruments can drive a cost-effective transition of the energy sector in line with The International Panel on Climate Change climate goals.
Since the Act became law concluded that as much as 85% of this the UK has seen its grid carbon content energy could come from renewable energy fall by more than 250g CO kWh and coal mainly wind and solar.
Due to their 2 generation has fallen by over 75%.
intermittent nature this scale will only be achieved if the remaining 15% comes from Despite this progress there is more to do.
sources which complement wind and solar, Decarbonisation of power generation, balancing the system and providing the transport and heat remains a key driver of increasingly valuable support services that change across the energy sector.
The UKs a well-functioning energy system requires.
ambitious targets to reduce carbon emissions by 80% of 1990 levels means The challenges and opportunities our power sector will almost certainly presented by climate change are have to be net zero carbon by 2060. significant but they are not the only trends affecting the energy sector.
Others Decarbonisation at this scale, across all include a need for more power generation, sectors, is likely to require an absolute as the transport and heat sectors embrace increase in the amount of electricity new technologies, a need to manage produced and consumed due to the more volatile sources of power, widely electrification of heating and transport.
distributed sources of generation and A report from the Energy Transitions customers who increasingly want more Commission November 2018 estimates control over the way they use or generate that electricitys contribution to global their own energy.
On page 13 we explore energy supply must rise from 20% to 60% Draxs response to these trends in by 2060.
The European Commissions more detail.
12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 3 Drive to reduce carbon emissions Need to safeguard the The UK Government aims to end unabated coal generation by UKs security of supply 2025.
Coal produced 5% of UK power in 2018 compared to 39% More distributed generation and the increase in intermittent in 2012. renewables are driving increased levels of volatility in short-term prices and a need for assets to provide system support services.
OUR RESPONSE There is an increasing need for flexible sources of power which We have reduced our coal generation facilities over the last five can provide services such as response, reserve, reactive power, years, converting four of Drax Power Stations six generation black start and inertia.
units to use sustainable biomass.
In 2018 we generated 13.8 TWh of renewable power, which represents 12% of the UKs At peak times UK power supply has been getting close to the total total renewable power supply and means Drax is the largest available generation capacity.
Increasing intermittent renewable renewable generator in the UK.
We also launched a Bioenergy generation has resulted in higher levels of volatility in short-term Carbon Capture and Storage BECCS pilot project.
prices and a need for flexible generation.
OUR RESPONSE THERMAL GENERATION VS RENEWABLE Drax is becoming a truly national power generator with TWh generation assets distributed across Scotland, Northern England and the South East, and options to develop generation assets 600 in Wales and the East of England.
The Groups total generation capacity now stands at 6.5 GW and we have options to develop 500 a further 6.6GW.
As well as adding capacity this increases our 400 ability to provide the system services the grid relies upon.
300 200 4 Increasing market convergence and changing customer behaviour 100 As the energy market evolves, our businessto-business 0 customers increasingly seek to create value from their portfolios 2009 2013 2017 2021 2025 through the installation of their own generation capabilities, Historic the provision of demand side response and energy trading.
Carbon intensity decline Source: electricinsights.
co. uk OUR RESPONSE Smart meter technology presents an opportunity to offer behind-the-meter services and the aggregation of information 2 and capacity to customers large and small.
This means Drax can Evolving mix of generation open up power and flexibility markets to more customers.
With The use of intermittent renewables, such as wind and solar, flexible, renewable, low-carbon generation and trading expertise, is increasing and flexible, thermal generation, such as coal, Drax is strongly placed in this market to create shared value for is declining.
This places additional pressure to balance the customers and the Group.
OUR RESPONSE 5 A need for affordable, sustainable power Draxs portfolio of flexible generation biomass, hydro and gas provide these increasingly important services and The business-to-business energy market is highly competitive bring more development opportunities.
and customers are demanding access to both low cost and renewable power.
As much as OUR RESPONSE Drax now supplies more of its business-to-business customers with 100% renewable power, at no premium, than any of our 85% competitors.
Our investment in digital technologies is providing of the energy of the future could new opportunities, a reduced cost to serve and an enhanced come from renewable sources customer experience.
com Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 13
