CHAIRS STATEMENT Our flexible, low carbon and renewable approach is delivering high quality earnings and further opportunities for growth.
Philip Cox CBE Chair, Drax Group INTRODUCTION Notwithstanding these events we INVESTMENT CASE In 2018 we made good progress with continued to provide a significant 1 Critical to the strategy we first announced in amount of the UKs renewable power and December 2016. completed the conversion of a fourth decarbonisation of the unit from coal to biomass on schedule UKs energy system The strategy is to focus on our flexible, and budget.
and a major source of low carbon and renewable generation, combined with a customer-focused We have continued to develop options flexible, low carbon and approach to energy supply.
The Group for gas generation at four sites around the renewable power from a aims to deliver higher quality earnings, UK as well as the option for coal-to-gas nationwide portfolio of a reduction in commodity exposure and repowering at Drax Power Station.
These generation technologies opportunities for growth aligned with the options could provide new sources of countrys ambitious low carbon energy flexible generation and support the UKs 2 Underlying growth in needs.
I expect the Group to be at the decarbonisation targets while delivering centre of this change and to work in attractive returns to our shareholders, the core business and partnership with Government to help subject to the right long-term support attractive investment the UK meet its energy objectives.
opportunities In December 2018 we completed the Good quality, sustainable, low cost 3 Increasing earnings acquisition of a portfolio of pumped biomass is central to our business and, storage, hydro and gas generation assets in Pellet Production, we successfully visibility, reducing from ScottishPower, following shareholder commissioned our third pellet plant commodity exposure approval at the General Meeting held on LaSalle Bioenergy ahead of schedule 21 December 2018.
These assets are highly and on budget.
We also relocated our US 4 Strong financial position complementary to our strategy, and will administration to Monroe, Louisiana to and clear capital form a very important part of our portfolio.
bring increased focus and efficiency to our allocation plan business.
Although pellet quality improved Operationally, the Power Generation in 2018 it was below the level we targeted business managed a major unplanned and we are focused on delivering further generator outage in early 2018, as well as improvements during 2019. an unrelated outage in December 2017 due to a fire at our rail unloading facility.
In B2B Energy Supply we have increased Both outages restricted biomass customer meters and margin, although the generation in early 2018.
We have learned market for many of our customers remains important lessons from these events challenging.
This has contributed to as we continuously strive for improved an increase in bad debt provisioning.
4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance page 50 RESULTS AND DIVIDEND We are also delighted to welcome Andy SUSTAINABILITY Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 of 250 million Skelton to the Board as CFO from January A key part of our approach to corporate grew by 9% compared to 2017 229 million.
Andy is a highly experienced CFO governance is sustainability.
This remains This reflects high levels of renewable having previously served as CFO at Fidessa.
at the heart of the Group and part of power generation from sustainable I extend my thanks to Den Jones who did its culture.
It covers both biomass biomass as well as Adjusted EBITDA an excellent job as Interim CFO, supporting sustainability and, more broadly, long-term growth in our Pellet Production business.
the delivery of the strategy and the sustainability achieving a positive acquisition of the ScottishPower assets.
economic, social and environmental At the 2018 half year results we confirmed Den will remain with the Group until May impact and considering long, medium an interim dividend of 22 million 2019 to support the integration process.
and short-term factors in our stewardship 5.6 pence per share representing 40% of the business.
of the full year expected dividend of Drax remains committed to the highest 56 million 14.1 pence per share standards of corporate governance.
The We measure our performance as part 2017: 50 million, 12.3 pence per share.
Board and its committees play an active of our Group Scorecard, which covers a Accordingly, the Board proposes to pay role in guiding the Company and leading its range of matters that we see as crucial to a final dividend in respect of 2018 of strategy.
We greatly value the contribution the longevity of the Group.
We therefore 34 million, equivalent to 8.5 pence made by our Non-Executive Directors and use the Scorecard as a key element of our per share.
This represents a 12% increase during a time of transition their role Bonus and Long Term Incentive plans.
on 2017 and is consistent with our policy remains especially important.
to pay a dividend which is sustainable OUR PEOPLE and expected to grow as the strategy During 2018, as part of our structured Our people employees and contractors delivers an increasing proportion of succession planning, we welcomed two remain a key asset of the business and stable earnings and cash flows.
new Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
we are all focused on creating a diverse Nicola Hodson has valuable experience in and inclusive working environment that is The Group has a clear capital allocation technology, business transformation and both safe and supportive.
Employee safety policy which it has applied throughout energy.
Vanessa Simms has over 20 years is a long-held and central commitment 2018.
In determining the rate of growth experience in senior finance roles, with of our operational philosophy.
While the in dividends from one year to the next the a particular focus on implementing number of incidents we have experienced Board will take account of contracted cash strategic change.
remains low, we need to remain vigilant flows, the less predictable cash flows from and reduce the number of high potential the Groups commodity based business David Lindsell will step down at the Annual incidents.
We remain committed to the and future investment opportunities.
General Meeting AGM in April 2019.
David highest standards of safety and wellbeing If there is a build-up of capital, the Board has served for ten years and remained on across the Group.
will consider the most appropriate the Board during 2018 to assist with the mechanism to return this to shareholders.
onboarding of the new CFO and Chair I would also like to welcome colleagues of the Audit Committee.
Tony Thorne will from ScottishPower.
We believe they will Reflecting this approach to capital step down in June 2019 and Tim Cobbold provide highly complementary expertise allocation, in February 2018 the Group will step down in September 2019, each and a strong cultural fit, to create an announced a 50 million share buy-back having served nine years.
Nicola will expanded world-class engineering programme, which was successfully succeed Tony as Chair of the Remuneration and operations capability.
Committee and Vanessa will succeed David as Chair of the Audit Committee.
My sincere thanks to all of my colleagues CORPORATE GOVERNANCE David Nussbaum will take over as our for their ongoing commitment, dedication In January 2018 Will Gardiner, who was Senior Independent Director.
previously Group Chief Financial Officer CFO, became Group Chief Executive I would like to thank each of David Lindsell, In concluding, I would like to say that Officer, succeeding Dorothy Thompson Tony and Tim for their very significant the Board remains totally committed to CBE.
His appointment followed a thorough contributions to the Board and, for David the complementary aims of delivering review of internal and external candidates and Tony, their invaluable leadership sustainable long-term value for the Group, and was a natural progression after of the Audit and Remuneration supporting the communities in which two years working alongside Dorothy Committees respectively.
we operate and enabling a zero carbon, developing a strategy which I am lower cost energy future for the UK.
confident will continue to create significant benefits for all stakeholders.
Philip Cox CBE Chair Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 5
