Directors and Officers Andy Harrison Will Adderley Chairman Deputy Chairman N R N Chair of the Nominations Committee Key strengths: A former CEO with considerable experience of Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, all parts of the leading large consumer facing organisations with a strong service Group.
Specific strengths in buying and trading with strong and longoffer.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
Has been instrumental in growing the Group to its current size having developed the out-of-town format in the Dunelm role: Chairs the Board, which is responsible for Group late 1990s.
strategy, performance, risk oversight and good governance.
Provided interim executive support in Dunelm role: Director and major shareholder, who spends his time the year pending appointment of new CEO.
Regularly visits stores on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder value and the webstore to meet colleagues and members of the senior and preserve the Groups culture and values.
Member of the management team.
Participates in investor presentations and some Nominations Committee.
Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his whole Joined Dunelm Board: September 2014. career.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group from his father in 1996.
Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups IPO in 2006.
Previous experience: Chief Executive of Whitbread plc from 2010 Became Deputy Chairman in February 2011 and was reappointed Chief to 2016.
Chief Executive of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010.
Resumed his role as Deputy Chairman Executive of RAC plc between 1996 and 2005.
Retains an executive role to support the business and Chair of Audit Committee at EMAP plc from 2000 to 2008. in matters agreed with the CEO, and as required.
Current focus is on Other commitments: None.
buying, merchandising and mentoring colleagues internally.
Previous experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
Other commitments: WA Capital Limited.
Nick Wilkinson Liz Doherty Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director A N R Senior Independent Director Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Key strengths: An experienced CEO, with proven business leadership Key strengths: A former Finance Director with extensive operational in multi-channel retail businesses operating across a number of experience in international consumer and retail businesses, specifically consumer brands and geographies.
with brands, marketing and online.
Dunelm role: Leads the Group and Chairs the Executive Board.
Proposes the Strategy to be approved by the Board, and accountable Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, for delivery of strategic and financial objectives.
In addition to his monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Board responsibilities, liaises with the Remuneration Committee in Regularly visits stores and the webstore to meet store colleagues respect of below Board remuneration, and attends Audit and Risk and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor Committee meetings by invitation.
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Joined Dunelm Board: February 2018 Joined Dunelm Board: May 2013.
Previous experience: Chief Executive of Evans Cycles 2011-2016 : Chief Executive of Maxeda DIY 2007-2010 : Group Buying Director Previous experience: Fellow of the Chartered Institute of and MD of Currys at Dixons Retail Group 1999-2006.
Early career at Management Accountants FCMA.
Finance Director of Reckitt Unilever and McKinsey & Co. Benckiser plc 2011 to 2013, Brambles Limited Australia 2007 to 2009 and Group International Finance Director of Tesco PLC from Other commitments: Trustee of Age UK.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Corbion NV and Novartis International AG.
com Stock code: DNLM 46 Governance William Reeve Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A N R A N R Chair of the Remuneration Committee Key strengths: An entrepreneur and investor with deep Key strengths: A current Managing Director with deep experience digital experience.
in retail and brands, working for both large and more entrepreneurial organisations, with a particular expertise in marketing and product.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, management.
Regularly visits stores and the webstore to meet monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Regularly visits stores and the webstore to meet colleagues and Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Chair of members of the senior management team.
Attends investor the Remuneration Committee.
Previous experience: Co-founder of three internet-related Previous experience: Chief Executive of Jigsaw 2013-2018.
Senior businesses: Fletcher Research, LOVEFiLM.
positions at John Lewis Partnership 2005 to 2013, Levi Strauss 2001 Non-Executive Director of numerous others including Graze.
Paddy Power plc and Zoopla.
Other commitments: Managing Director of URBN Corporation.
Other commitments: Chief Executive of Oh Goodlord Limited.
Committee memberships Marion Sears Non-Executive Director A Audit and Risk Committee member N Nominations Committee member N R Remuneration Committee member Designated Non-Executive Director for colleague matters Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience including mergers and acquisitions.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Regularly visits stores and the webstore to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Now non-independent, as defined by tenure, but asked to remain on the Board by the Board members and Adderley family.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Designated Non-Executive Director for colleague matters.
Marion was Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 20062015 and Chair of Nominations Committee until 2016.
Previous experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Banking.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc, Fidelity European Values plc, Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc and Director of WA Capital Limited.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 47 Directors and Officers CONTINUED Dawn Durrant Bill Adderley Company Secretary Founder and Life President Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial and legal Bill, together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979. experience including corporate governance, legal and regulatory Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, Bill and Jean remain major shareholders and frequently visit stores.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Member of the Executive Board.
Previous experience: Qualified as a solicitor at Allen & Overy 1988 to 1994.
Company Secretary of Geest plc between 1994 and 2005.
Notes: John Browett was Chief Executive Officer during the financial year to 30 June 2018.
He resigned and stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2017.
Keith Down was Chief Financial Officer during the financial year to 30 June 2018.
He resigned and stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2018.
Simon Emeny retired as planned from his role as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee at the AGM on 21 November 2017.
Rachel Osborne was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2018 as a Non-Executive Director, and stepped down on 29 August 2018 to take up an executive role on the Board of a competitor.
Laura Carr will join the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 29 November 2018.
Details of her background and appointment are in the Nominations Committee Report.
David Stead, Dunelms former Chief Financial Officer September 2003 to December 2015 has provided interim support pending Lauras arrival since April 2018, although he has not been appointed to the Board over this short period.
