Our strategy To delight our customers We aim to delight our customers by oering great service, quality and innovation.
We do this by delivering on all our commitments, further improving our quality standards and driving innovation, on a multinational basis.
We do this by Our packaging customer profile Delivering on all our commitments Fast-moving consumer goods FMCG, food and e-commerce Further improving our quality standards customers comprise over two thirds of our packaging business.
These customers produce products commonly sold in Driving innovation, on a multinational basis supermarkets, convenience stores, other retail outlets, or over Our performance the internet.
Ten per cent of our business is related to other In 2017 18 we delivered: consumer-related products, for example consumer electronics, automotive or pharmaceuticals.
The remainder of our business Strong organic volume growth in box volumes services other industrial customers trading in products such as Expanded our packaging capability in the US enhancing bulk chemicals, where packaging may help transport products our potential oering to multinational customers safely and securely in large quantities.
Six new PackRight Centres Continued roll-out of performance packaging Long-standing partnerships with multinational customer acceptance high customers drives value for both parties Volume growth among our multinational customers has been a In 2018 19 we will: consistent driver of Group growth, as large customers look for a Prioritise investment and innovation in growth areas, co-ordinated approach to their packaging in Europe and beyond.
in particular e-commerce and display packaging 17 of our top 20 European customers also operate in the US.
Continue to grow partnerships with our key customers Wethink that, over time, the opportunity to co-ordinate the in the US procurement of packaging in both Europe and the US will be Open further Impact Centres and PackRight Centres, attractive to customers.
in Europe and the US Long-standing supply partnerships drive value for both parties, Place additional focus on improving service levels as we can work together with customers to reduce their overall Renew sales and our marketing approach to deliver supply chain costs with innovative, efficient packaging.
adierentiated customer experience by investing We have worked with many of our customers for over a decade intraining and best-in-class materials and some for many decades.
Our emphasis on FMCG customers means that the demand for Our KPIs our product is relatively consistent, as consumption of staple On-time, in-full delivery products tends to be less variable than discretionary items.
Definition FMCG customers also tend to change or promote their products The proportion of our orders that are delivered on-time and frequently, which gives us the opportunity to introduce new in-full, across all our businesses.
innovation to our packaging and increase the value we add.
Target We have a high quality diverse customer base which is not reliant on any single customer.
Our largest packaging customer represents c. 2 per cent of Group revenue and our top-20 97% packaging customers comprise c. 13 per cent of Group revenue.
Why this is a KPI Packaging is an essential part of an efficient supply chain.
Therefore, delivery of a order on-time and in-full is a very important part of being a trusted partner to our customers.
2018 performance This year, we have continued to strive for a higher service standard.
The on-time in-full rate achieved remains short of our target and it remains a key area of focus.
At the same time, we have seen other areas of success, for example the defect rate measured in defects-parts-per million has dropped in our packaging business by 28 per cent.
2016 92% 2017 93% 2018 93% 20 Strategic report Our corrugated packaging customers by volume Our recycling customers We provide recycling solutions to a range of retailers and other businesses.
We are proud to serve some of Europes best known organisations such as Aldi, Tesco, Primark, Auchan and IKEA as well as thousands of smaller scale companies across multiple sectors.
Go to our case studies website www.
com FMCG and food: 68% recycling insights case-studies to discover how our solutions Other consumer are benefiting our customers, large and small.
related products: 10% Our plastic packaging customers Other industrial: 22% Our three principal types of plastic packaging are used by a range of customers in our key market sectors: flexible rigid foam Market packaging packaging products Beverage Pharmaceutical FMCG and food Other consumer Other industrial Automotive related products Fresh produce Construction 68% 10% 22% Retail Grocery Pharmaceutical Machinery Home and Electronics Chemicals personal care Automotive Construction Beverages Tobacco Agriculture E-commerce Source: DS Smith analysis of 2018 corrugated box sales by volume Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
