Governance Directors report and debt facilities and the issue of 6,492,411 ordinary shares to Going concern the seller.
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the Companys On 4 June 2018 the Company announced the proposed acquisition objectives and strategy, its risks and uncertainties in achieving its of Papeles y Cartones fide Europa, S. A. known as Europac, a leading objectives and its review of business performance, which are all western European integrated packaging business.
The oer price set out in the strategic report, operating review and financial of 16.80 per Europac share values the entire share capital of review sections of this annual report and accounts.
The Groups Europac at 1,667 million 1,453 million.
liquidity and funding arrangements are described in notes 19 and In addition to the acqusitions detailed above the Group also made 20 to the financial statements, as well as in the capital structure various business acquisitions, which are not considered material and treasury management section of the strategic report.
The to the Group individually or in aggregate.
Directors consider that the Group has significant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for the 2016 17 acquisitions and disposals foreseeable future.
In the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group made various business acquisitions, which included the acquisition of two businesses After reviewing the Companys expenditure commitments, specialising in point of sale and display product and services for current financial projections and expected future cash flows in-store marketing, Creo in the UK and Deku-Pack in Denmark, with appropriate sensitivities applied for deterioration in both the acquisition of Parish a US manufacturer and supplier of underlying cashflow and working capital, together with the bag-in-box systems, Gopaca a corrugated producer in Portugal available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing and P&I Display a specialist corrugated display business in Portugal.
facilities, the Directors have considered that adequate resources exist, before any mitigating actions, to continue in operational These acquisitions were not considered material to the Group existence without relying on short term facilities for a period of individually or in aggregate and were for a total of 71 million atleast twelve months from the date of approval of this report.
net of cash and cash equivalents.
Borrowings acquired from Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern these transactions were 14 million.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Share capital Acquisitions and divestments Details of the issued share capital and the rights and restrictions 2017 18 acquisitions and disposals attached to the shares, together with details of movements in On 25 August 2017, the Group acquired 80 per cent of the the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown shares of common stock in the capital of Indevco Management in note 23.
Following the Placing announced on 29 June 2017, Resources, Inc. IMRI from Merpas Co. S. r. l. Together with the 62,637,363 new ordinary shares were placed at a price of 4.55 52,474,156 new ordinary shares allotted to Merpas the Group paid pence per share, resulting in total proceeds on issue of 288 million 772 million in respect of cash consideration and repayment of in connection with the acquisition of Interstate Resources.
On IMRI Groups financial indebtedness.
A redemption liability relating 29 August 2017 52,474,156 new ordinary shares were allotted to to the non-controlling interest of 152 million for the 20 per cent Merpas Co. S. a r. l. in connection with the acquisition of Interstate minority stake in IMRI retained by Merpas was recognised at the Resources.
On 7 March 2018, 6,492,411 new ordinary shares same time.
Onxed dates over the next four years, Merpas can were allotted to Kameran Financial Limited in connection with require the Group to acquire some or all of the remaining shares the completion of the 208 million acquisition of EcoPack and inIMRI on agreed terms under a put option, and on the fifth EcoPaper, Romania.
These new shares ranked equally in all anniversary of completion, the Group will unless agreed respects with the existing ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the otherwise acquire any shares in IMRI that it does not already own.
Companys employee share option schemes, 1,619,350 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued during the year.
49,449 On 18 October 2017 the Group announced it had entered into an shares pursuant to the Companys employee share option agreement to acquire EcoPack and EcoPaper for an enterprise schemes were issued between 1 May and 17 June 2018 inclusive.
value of c. 208 million, which completed on 6 March 2018.
The Company has not utilised its authority to make market These businesses are a leading integrated packaging and paper purchases of 101,451,301 shares granted to it at the 2017 AGM group in Romania.
The acquisition was funded by existing cash but, in line with market practice, will be seeking to renew such authority at this years AGM.
Substantial shareholders Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 30 April 2018, the following information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
Ordinary shares held % Nature of holding Aviva plc 76,565,844 7.12 Direct & indirect Standard Life Investments Limited 76,190,552 7.09 Indirect Blackrock Inc 54,506,656 5.07 Indirect Norges Bank 53,234,429 4.95 Direct Ameriprise Financial Inc, and its group 47,955,690 4.46 Direct & indirect The trustee of the Employee benefit Trust the Trust, which is used to purchase shares on behalf of the Company as described in note 23, has the power to vote or not vote, at its absolute discretion, in respect of any shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in accordance with good practice, the trustee adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
The trustee has a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares, which are the beneficial property of the Trust.
com 61 Directors report continued In line with the Regulations which implement the European Union Dividends Accounting Directive SI 2015 980, a complete list of the Groups An interim dividend for 2017 18 of 4.9 pence per ordinary share subsidiaries has been included on pages 136 to 140 to comply with was paid on 1 May 2018 and the Directors recommend a final s409 of the Act.
dividend of 9.8 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, increases the total dividend for the year to 14.7 We have chosen, in accordance with the Act, to include certain pence per ordinary share 2016 17: 15.2 pence.
Subject to approval information in our strategic report or financial statements that of shareholders at the AGM to be held on 4 September 2018, the would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors final dividend will be paid on 1 November 2018 to shareholders on report.
This is as follows: the register at the close of business on 5 October 2018 including Subject matter Page those to be issued in the rights issue.
The 2017 18 interim Important events since the financial year-end 12 dividend of 4.9 pence, and prior dividends, will be restated in Likely future developments in the business 16 future accounts to reflect the bonus factor adjustment resulting Research and development 18 from the rights issue.
Use of financial instruments 39 Political donations Waiver of dividends 61 No political donations were made during the year ended Employment of disabled persons 23 30 April 2018 2016 17: nil.
DS Smith has a policy of not making Employee involvement 22 donations to political organisations or independent election Greenhouse gas emissions 29 candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the world, as dened in the Political Parties, Elections and The information that fulls the requirements of the Corporate Referendums Act 2000.
Governance Statement for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found on pages 46 to 67, Directors and ocers liability insurance and forms part of the Directors report.
The 2016 UK Corporate The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate Governance Code can be accessed at www.
uk insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third-party Internal control indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, in The Board has an overall responsibility for the Groups system of a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the internal control, including financial, operational and compliance Companies Act 2006 the Act.
These indemnities were in force controls.
The Board is also responsible for the risk management throughout the year and up to the date of this annual report.
system and for reviewing its eectiveness.
Such a system, however, can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate Risk governance risk.
Therefore it can provide only reasonable and not absolute The Board retains accountability for establishing and maintaining assurance against material misstatement or loss.
We have the the Groups systems of internal control and risk management necessary procedures in place to ensure that there is an ongoing and for reviewing their eectiveness, but has delegated day-toprocess for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant day responsibility to the Audit Committee.
These systems are risks to the Group.
These procedures are in line with Financial designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of Reporting Council guidance and have been in place throughout failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, the year under review and up to the date of the approval of these but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or financial statements.
Our risk governance process, including how loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating it is reviewed by the Board, is described in more detail on page 40. and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of Our risk management framework and the processes we put in the Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters place last year are operating well and serve to identify, assess which are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board is and consider the possible remedies and responses to the principal accountable for, but has delegated to the Audit Committee the risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
The Group continues to responsibility for, establishing a system of internal controls improve the management of its key risks and to hold a strong appropriate to the business environments in which the position to absorb the financial and operational impact should Group operates.
Key elements of this system include: those risks materialise.
In doing so, the Board is encouraged by the continuing work across the Group and its divisions, the a clearly dened divisional organisation structure for investments being made in risk management and the growing monitoring the conduct and operations of individual interest and skills of our employees in this area.
business units: clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting Further details on the Groups risk management approach and with the matters reserved for the Board: its management and mitigation of each principal risk is set out in a formal process for ensuring that key risks aecting all the the principal risks section on pages 42 to 45.
Following the new Groups operations are identied and assessed on a regular requirement of the Code to report on the Groups longer-term basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
solvency and viability, the Groups viability statement is set out Risk consideration is embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are periodically reported to the Board Other disclosures and considered by it.
The risk process is reviewed by the This Directors governance report fulls the requirements of the Audit Committee: directors report for the purposes of the Act.
The strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 45, and encompasses our corporate social responsibility report.
62 Governance the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and risk management procedures, during the year and up to the and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the date of approval of this annual report.
This included a process of Board of the Corporate Plan: self-certication by senior divisional management in which they were asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with the monthly reporting of actual results and their review Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control against budget, forecasts including bank covenant headroom weaknesses identied during the past year.
In addition, it involved and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all reviewing the results of the work of the Groups Internal Audit significant variances: function and the risk identication and management processes the Operating Framework laying down common control identied above.
procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group.
This includes clearly dened policies for capital expenditure and Disclosure of information to the Auditor investment, including appropriate authorisation levels, with Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of the approval larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring of this annual report confirms that: Board approval: a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit regular formal meetings between the Group Chief Executive, information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues: and b the Director has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken communicating key corporate values through our Code as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant of Conduct to all employees.
audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Internal Audit This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Groups Internal Audit function, which is outsourced to KPMG with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
LLP, undertakes regular reviews of the individual businesses operations and their systems of internal controls, makes Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office recommendations to improve controls and follows up to ensure as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at that management implements the recommendations made.
The Internal Audit plan is determined on a risk assessment By order of the Board basis and is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Iain Simm Internal Audits findings are reported to Group and divisional business management as well as to the Audit Committee.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Board can confirm that it has carried out an annual review of the overall eectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls 17 June 2018 Non-financial information statement The table below sets out where stakeholders can nd information in our strategic report that relates to non-financial matters, asrequired under the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements.
Where to read more in this report about our impact, Reporting requirement Some of our relevant policies including the principal risks relating to these matters Page 1 Group Sustainability policy Sustainable forestry 10 Environmental matters Social pressure for zero packaging waste 14 Our sustainability approach, strategy, focus and targets 26 29 Our dierentiators 13 Risk sustainability 44 2 Employees Code of Conduct What we create for our people 23 Diversity 24 1 Group Health and Safety policy To realise the potential of our people performance 22 2 Compliance framework policy Board diversity 51 Health and safety 22 Responsible conduct 28 OWN IT!
23 Risk talent barriers 44 2 Human rights Modern Slavery policy Sustainable governance 29 Risk governance and compliance 42 2 Code of Conduct 2 Code of Conduct Responsible neighbour 28 Social matters What we create for our communities 28 2 Anti-corruption policy Risk governance and compliance 42 Anti-bribery and corruption 2 Gifts and hospitality policy 2 Anti-bribery Anti-corruption policy Our business model 18-19 Business model Employees: accident frequency rate 22 Non-financial KPIs Sustainability: CO equivalent emissions 26 2 Customers: on-time in-full deliveries 20 1.
Available to all employees through the DS Smith intranet.
Available both on our website www.
com and available to employees through the DS Smith intranet.
