Our Vision & Strategy WHAT WE ARE SETTING OUT TO DO Our vision is to be the leading multichannel specialist.
Famous for style, value, quality and ease of shopping.
Our purpose is to help everyone create a home they love.
As the rate of new store openings slows Our colleagues make Dunelm what it is.
Dunelm down, we must find ways to reach more Friendly service, product expertise, and The Home of Homes customers with our Dunelm brand.
Our willing to go the extra mile.
We Our customers shop differently to brand awareness remains relatively will keep making our place a better how they did when our business low for a market leader.
Attracting and place to work.
Happy colleagues make was growing up.
Online, whether for converting more customers will allow us happy customers.
inspiration, browsing or purchasing is to sell more.
We will focus on five Business Goals: now a part of most customers We must continue to give customers shopping experience.
Reaching more customers clear and more reasons to shop with 1 with our brand Our stores play a pivotal role in a us.
We will be famous for style, value, Multichannel world.
Take-home-today quality and ease of shopping.
This Create new reasons convenience, friendly colleague advice, 2 means well designed, brilliant quality, for customers to shop or that touch and feel experience, own label products at the best possible with Dunelm means we provide a unique experience prices.
We must offer more than today which sets us apart.
more newness, choice and seasonality Easy and inspiring 3 and desirable brands for example in multichannel shopping for The rate of change in the UK retail Dorma and Fogarty.
our customers market is high, and gathering pace all the time.
Developments in technology We will broaden our appeal.
We want Simple and low cost are changing customers shopping everyone to create a home they love 4 good housekeepers behaviour and our competitor set and to feel comfortable in ours starting is evolving rapidly.
Discounters are out, settled down, well off, hard up, A great place to work competing on price and pure-play classic tastes, bling-loving, sofa surfer or 5 for colleagues retailers are offering a wide product day tripper.
This We know that convenience is important For us, this will feel like continual can be disruptive as they have a very adaptation and evolution.
To our given our customers busy lifestyles.
different approach to profits and long Getting our product must be easy customers, it will simply be what they term value creation.
Our stores must We continue to grow well, taking market be worth visiting, providing inspiration, share and developing our customer This is Dunelm, advice, product trial and a window on proposition.
We must continue to adapt our entire range.
Our websites must be The Home of Homes and evolve as our customers needs easy and inspiring to shop, with painless for tomorrow, as well as today.
Our foundations are strong delivery and collection options.
and they give us a great platform to accelerate our multichannel capabilities.
com Stock code: DNLM 12 Strategic Report Our Business Goals Goal One Goal Two Goal Three Goal Four Goal Five Reaching more Create new reasons Easy and inspiring Simple and low A great place customers with our for customers to shop multichannel cost good to work for brand with Dunelm shopping for our housekeepers colleagues customers STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE Increase the number of Increase customer visit Increase conversion and Improve operating Improve customer shoppers at Dunelm frequency basket size leverage and efficiency conversion efficiency WHAT WERE DOING WHAT WERE DOING WHAT WERE DOING WHAT WERE DOING WHAT WERE DOING An integrated programme Improving our product Be the leading Developing our business Retaining our culture as to build brand awareness, proposition by offering multichannel brand in to be agile and scalable.
we embrace a digital consideration and the best choice, quality, homewares for customer Instilling the good future acquisition value and style experience housekeepers mindset z Restructured z Brand building z Cultivate win play z Introduce our z Simplify to one brand, commercial teams campaign begins in show category new web platform one platform for Tech to increase pace and September 2018 with ranging strategies including Click & and Supply Chain customer ownership TV sponsorship and including seasonal Collect in Q3 FY19 efficiency z Always-on colleague advertising z Buy more promotional z All range available z Develop agile and listening to enhancing z Performance product to in-store through scalable systems and our ability to marketing complement core customer hosts and processes engage with and programmes will ranges and increase mobile tablet selling make continual z Improve internal accelerate under newness and value equipment improvements for our controls around retail one brand colleagues z Use drop-ship z Refits to develop basics z Developing own capabilities to inspiration and ease z Restructured z Attack third party channels and unique develop online range, of shopping technology team to costs sourcing, content #mydunelm, especially in soft enhance technical z Technology teams procurement, value Salesforce capabilities, furnishings product ownership set up for agile engineering emails and development z Build differentiated development from z Re-engineer nonagility and skillset z Store roll-out offer in selected Q1 FY19 customer facing continues with a long furniture categories z Appointed a activities in store term target of around e. g. Fogarty designated non- 200 stores in the UK mattresses executive Director to our Colleague z Product PR and Council to improve Influencer programme engagement with the gaining critical mass Group Board OUR PURPOSE Helping everyone create a home they love OUR BUSINESS GOALS Easy and inspiring A great place Reaching more Create new reasons Simple and low multichannel customers with our for customers to cost good to work for shopping for our brand shop with Dunelm housekeepers colleagues customers OUR FOUNDATIONS Agile and A lean and Committed A customer Committed The best store scalable digital efficient supply supplier first culture colleagues portfolio platform chain partners OUR KEY BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Sell more Be committed Do things our own way Keep it simple DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 13
