Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited z Not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers financial statements for the period ended 30 June 2018. to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company which would be inconsistent with or Where reference is made to other sections of the Annual undermine any of the provisions of the Relationship Report and Accounts, these sections are incorporated into this Agreement report by reference.
z Abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Strategic Report Adderley or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 8 to 43.
This related party contains an indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
z Not carry on other than through their holding of securities of the Company or have any financial interest other than a Results and Dividends financial interest in securities which are held for investment The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 73.3m purposes only in any person who carries on a business 2017: 73.1m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would be the Financial Review on pages 22 to 25. inconsistent with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Agreement A final dividend of 19.5p per share 2017: 19.5p is proposed z Only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, in respect of the period ended 30 June 2018, to add to an agreement or relationship between themselves or any of interim dividend of 7.0p per share paid on 13 April 2018 their associates and any member of the Group with the 2017: 6.5p.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 December approval of a majority of the independent Non-Executive 2018 to shareholders on the register at 16 November 2018.
Directors Shareholder and Voting Rights WA Capital Limited and Nadine Adderley, to whom All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend Will Adderley transferred shares by way of a gift, have and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands subsequently become party to this agreement.
at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person In July 2014, the Relationship Agreement was amended so as or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
to comply with Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into effect on 16 May 2014.
The following additional undertakings On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will were given by the parties: Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship z No action will be taken that would have the effect Agreement with the Company, pursuant to which each of of preventing the Company from complying with its Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley undertook obligations under the Listing Rules to the Company that, for so long as, individually or together, they are entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, z No resolution will be proposed, or procured to be 30% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the proposed, which is intended to, or appears to be intended Company or they are able to control the appointment of to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules Directors who are able to exercise a majority of votes at Board In addition, the Articles of Association of the Company meetings of the Company, they will: provide that the election and re-election of independent z Conduct all transactions and relationships with any Directors must be conducted in accordance with the member of the Group on arms length terms and on a election provisions set out in LR 9.2.
This normal commercial basis means that the election or re-election of each independent z Not take any action which precludes or inhibits any Director at the Annual General Meeting will be subject to an member of the Group from carrying on its business additional separate resolution upon which parties controlling independently of Jean and Bill Adderley and their 30% or more of the voting shares of the Company are not associates as defined in the Listing Rules eligible to vote.
com Stock code: DNLM 100 Governance The Company confirms that it has complied with its Change of Control obligations under the Relationship Agreement during the The Company is not party to any significant agreements which financial period under review, and that so far as it is aware, all take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of other parties to that agreement have complied with it.
the Company following a takeover bid.
The Company confirms that there are no contracts of There are no agreements between the Company and significance between any member of the Group and any its Directors or employees providing for additional of the parties to the Relationship Agreement, with the compensation for loss of office or employment whether exception of Will Adderleys service agreement as a Director through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs of the Company, the terms of which are outlined in the because of a takeover bid.
Details of the rights of employees to exercise options on There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares a change of control of the Company are set out in the in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by Remuneration Policy section of this report.
laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements relating to closed periods and requirements Share Capital and Treasury Shares of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees The Company has only one class of shares, Ordinary Shares of of the Company require Board approval to deal in the 1p each.
The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company has not UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR changed during the period.
4C At 30 June 2018, the Company held 914,635 Ordinary Shares The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are in treasury 2017: 1,150,642. not applicable to Dunelm.
The table below sets out the During the period the Company did not purchase any location of those requirements that are applicable: Ordinary Shares into treasury.
236,007 shares were transferred Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided to employees who exercised options under a share incentive scheme or Directors under the LTIP scheme.
Details of option 14 A statement made by the Board See above section exercises by Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
that the Company has entered into an headed Shareholder agreement under LR 9.2.
2A, that the and Voting Rights.
Since the financial year end, nil Ordinary Shares have been Company has, and as far as it is aware, moved out of treasury to employees who exercised options the other parties to the agreement have, under a share incentive scheme.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 101 Directors Report CONTINUED Substantial Shareholders Donations At 30 June 2018 the following had notified the Company of a The Group does not make any political donations.
disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Companys Ordinary Shares: The Sustainability report on page 42 sets out the Ordinary Percentage of greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the Shares share capital Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Will Adderley 54,161,779 26.9 Regulations 2013.
Bill Adderley 48,070,000 23.8 Treasury and Risk Management Royal London Asset Management The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk Limited 10,612,144 5.26 management, including its use of hedging instruments, is explained in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on Standard Life Aberdeen plc 10,274,359 5.09 page 33 and note 18 to the annual financial statements.
Will Adderley is also deemed to hold a legal interest in Independent Auditors 967,250 Ordinary Shares held by The Stoneygate Trust In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act formerly known as The Leicester Foundation and 172,750 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Ordinary Shares held by the Paddocks Discretionary Trust, by Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the virtue of the fact that he is a trustee of those trusts.
reappointment of  LLP as auditor of Since the period end date, we have been notified by Royal the Group.
London Asset Management Limited that their holding is now 9,907,809 Ordinary shares, 4.9% of the issued share capital.
Disclaimer This Directors Report, Strategic Report and the Financial There have been no other changes in the holdings of Statements contain certain forward-looking statements substantial shareholders between the period end date and with respect to the financial condition, results, operations 12 September 2018. and business of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to Directors events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in Details of the Directors of the Company who served on the the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause Board during the year, and the biographies of those on the actual results or developments to differ materially from those Board at the date of this report are set out on pages 46 to 48. expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements Details of changes to the Board during the period are set out and forecasts.
Nothing in this Directors Report and Strategic on page 48.
Report or in these Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
Powers of Directors Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares and Annual General Meeting the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Corporate Governance report on page 60.
Thursday 29 November 2018 at the Dunelm Store Support Centre, Watermead Business Park, Syston, Leicester, LE7 1AD.
Employee Information A formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a form Information relating to employees of the Group, including of proxy will accompany this annual report and financial our approach to disabled persons, is set out in the People statements.
section of the Sustainability report on page 37.
This report was reviewed and signed by order of the Board on Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are 12 September 2018. described in the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 75.
Dawn Durrant Company Secretary corporate.
