Our business model To become the leading supplier of sustainable packaging What we use What we do supported by our values Human capital our people and values Insight We employ approximately 28,500 people.
We seek We work with many of the to develop our people through training and providing leading FMCG brand owners, opportunity for new challenges.
We have an employee major retailers and leading engagement programme, OWN IT!, designed to align industrial companies.
This Be caring employees with the overall aims of the business.
breadth of interaction with We maintain a close, constructive relationship with businesses on a multinational our European Works Council and have in place an basis, combined with our own Employee Charter.
expertise, means that we have considerable knowledge in We have a set of values that all employees are expected how changing consumer and to follow in their interactions with other employees, retail trends aect the role and customers, suppliers and their communities.
We work to use of packaging.
We showcase promote the application of these values through employee our insight in our network of communications and celebrating our employees success nine Impact Centres, designed Insight in demonstrating our values.
to inspire our customers and help them understand how Financial capital packaging can help them sell We are funded by a combination of shareholder equity, debt more, reduce their costs and raised and cash flow generated by our operations, which is manage their risk.
Our approach to capital allocation is driven by returns on capital, with all investments expected to achieve our target range in the medium-term.
We target a net debt EBITDA ratio of less than or equal to 2.0 and are committed to our investment grade credit rating.
Paper Manufacturing and other physical assets We have an extensive network of packaging manufacturing sites, paper mills, forestry assets, recycling depots, Impact Be tenacious Centres, PackRight Centres and offices throughout Europe, the US and the rest of the world.
DS Smith also utilises the infrastructure of the countries in which we operate, such Innovation as the transportation networks, energy providers and telecommunications.
Innovation in packaging design can help customers sell Stakeholder relationships and our brand more such as SalesFront, Our stakeholders include customers, communities, capital reduce costs such as Trayzer Recycling providers, suppliers, governments and regulators.
or manage their risks such as interlocking, non-tip systems.
The DS Smith brand is consistent across our business Our designers work with and seeks to bring together the dierent elements of the customers to create innovative organisation under a consistent vision, purpose and set packaging solutions to meet of values.
Best Innovation Intellectual capital practice is shared and As a leader in this industry we have substantial business designers are coordinated know-how which is used throughout the Group.
We own across all our regions.
patents, for example for certain packaging design processes, We are also innovators in the in both corrugated and particularly plastic packaging.
use of light-weight corrugated board, in a programme called Natural resources PACE.
Our proprietary We operate a highly sustainable model through the recycling technology to test the of natural material, in particular wood bre.
We collect used strength of corrugated board Be responsive bre and use it to make paper and then convert that paper into as it is manufactured means corrugated board, which is then made into packaging.
We also we can use the optimum paper source pulp from newly harvested trees, including from our weight required.
In addition, own forestry assets to provide pulp for our kraft mill: all pulp is we are developing innovative sourced from certied sustainable sources.
The paper-making machine solutions that build process requires substantial amounts of water, so sites are boxes at high speeds, which typically situated close to a natural water source and we use can signicantly reduce costs and treat water responsibly.
and improve efficiency for customers.
18 Strategic report What we create Manufacturing For our business We manufacture corrugated A supplier partner who helps our customers to sell packaging, plastic packaging more products, focused on efficiency across our and paper to a high standard, customers supply chains and who helps them expertly designed for its achieve their own sustainability targets.
For corrugated Be challenging packaging, we manufacture A supplier who customers want to work with corrugated board, print, cut 5.2 per cent volume growth in corrugated box.
and glue the boxes, which are then shipped flat on pallets, Returns to our equity and debt providers ready for assembly and lling Our total shareholder return has grown 628 per cent at our customers factories.
Our listed debt is Plastic packaging is investment grade credit rated and we are manufactured by us and committed to maintaining that rating.
supplied to our customers Manufacturing ready for lling.
For our people Our paper mills manufacture Opportunity we encourage the identication corrugated case material of development needs and opportunities to build CCM from old corrugated capability and develop strong talent pipelines at cases OCC and from pulp.
all levels in the organisation.
Supportive culture an engaged workforce our employee engagement statistic improved from 61per cent to 69 per cent.
Employees share in the future of the Group our international Sharesave scheme covers nearly Be trusted all employees.
Corrugated For our communities and plastic packaging Sustainable forestry all forestry assets certied sustainable.
Leadership in solving sustainability problems e. g. coee cups.
Supporting local charities through the DS Smith Charitable Foundation.
Design Design Using our network of 33 PackRight Centres, we design packaging that fulls our customers requirements at all stages of their supply chain, including the manufacturing process, logistics and marketing.
We work collaboratively and on a We show above some of the non-financial multi-disciplinary basis with impacts of the business.
Please refer to the our customers to come up with table on page 63 to see how we comply the optimum solution for them.
with the new Non Financial Reporting Disclosure requirements.
