Effectiveness External Board effectiveness review Being the best Board that we can be.
Formal evaluation is a valuable tool for improvement.
Our Board is committed to excellence in corporate governance, but it is how the With internal evaluations having been carried out in each of personalities, competencies and experiences thelast two years, an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted this year in keeping with the guidance around the table interact with each other provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Clare that determine the Boards effectiveness.
Chalmers Limited CCL was appointed, a specialist consultancy which undertakes no other business for the Company.
A formal Evaluation and report assessment process was undertaken and the Chairman, together CCL found that the DS Smith Board operated to a high standard with the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, provided and worked well and eectively.
It had overseen a period of rapid a comprehensive brieng to CCL.
growth over the past five years that had taken the Company into the FTSE 100.
CCL noted that the Board benefitted from a stable Observation and long-serving group of directors, led by a highly capable The review was conducted from January to April 2018.
The challenge now facing the Board was to recruit new of the process CCL attended and observed a Board meeting and directors who could ll forthcoming vacancies and to ensure that was given access to Board papers for the prior 12 months to all the Directors and the Board as a whole contributed fully to the enhance CCLs understanding of how the Board and its Boards role.
Interviews Individual interviews were held with each Director and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
An interview script was developed to ensure consistency, with bespoke questions to allow for additional information reflecting function, role, tenure and experience.
Evaluation Action plan Shared Observation Interviews Discussion & report & sign off action plan CCL discussed the findings with the Chairman and presented the conclusions to the Board.
The Board discussed the key points and agreed an action plan.
As with every high performing board, the Directors will continue to look for areas of improvement.
Action plan Recommendations Board dynamics and culture The Chairman, together with the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary to agree a programme of essential site visits and meetings to be covered as part of induction, plus ongoing site visits for non-Executive Directors on at least an annual basis.
Board and executive succession Nomination Committee to prioritise succession planning, including recruitment, induction and ongoing Director development.
Strategic focus Non-Executive Directors to consider how best to use the post-meeting session to discuss ways of increasing the level of challenge, particularly on strategy and risk issues.
Communication, shareholders Board to consider ways of engaging with the customer perspective.
and stakeholders Risk framework Board to explore risk appetite within DS Smith as way of moving from oversight to active engagement on risk.
Board Committees Board to consider a more formal structure for the talent review and succession process.
