Leadership Board of Directors The Board is focused on creating an inclusive culture in line with DS Smiths values.
Gareth Davis Miles Roberts Adrian Marsh Chris Britton Ian Griths Chairman Group Chief Group Finance Non-Executive Non-Executive Executive Director Director Director Key strength: Key strength: Key strength: Key strength: Key strength: Wealth of international Clear strategic mindset Strong financial Strong background in Corporate finance experience expertise within an general management expertise Strong leadership skills international context and marketing Over 8 years experience Extensive audit External appointments: as a chairman Wealth of experience Extensive experience of experience Miles is a non-Executive asCFO in large listed serving on large listed External appointments: Director of Aggreko plc External appointments: multinationals company boards Gareth is Chairman of Ian is Chief Operating Principal Board Ferguson plc formerly External appointments: External appointments: Officer and Group Committees Wolseley plc None Chris is Chairman Finance Director Nomination ofGraze, a private of ITV plc Principal Board Principal Board equitycompany Principal Board Committees Committees He is also Chairman of Remuneration Committees None Dr Gerard, a private Audit Nomination Chair equity company Nomination Principal Board Remuneration Committees Audit Nomination Remuneration Gareth was appointed to Miles was appointed to the Adrian was appointed Chris was appointed to the Ian was appointed to the the Board on 1 June 2010 Board on 4 May 2010 as to the Board on Board on 6 March 2013 as Board on 23 June 2014 as as a non-Executive Group Chief Executive.
Director and became the Group Finance Director.
Heis stepping down from Following his engineering Previously a non-Executive Chairman of the Board on the Board with eect degree at Bristol University As the former head of Tax, Director for Alliance Boots 4 January 2012.
He has from28 June 2018. he became a chartered Treasury and Corporate GmbH for six years and CEO been Chairman of the accountant and brings Finance at Tesco PLC, of the Findus Group.
Chris Prior to his current Nomination Committee tothe Board extensive Adrian has helped DS Smith has also held executive rolewith ITV, he was at since January 2012. financial experience.
to signicantly build the board positions as the EMAP plc for 13 years On 2 April 2018 he stepped Hewas previously Chief finance function and President of the Baby invarious senior finance down from chairmanship of Executive of McBride plc, deliver strong financial Division of Royal Numico positions including Group William Hill PLC.
Previously having originally joined as results.
As a qualied until its acquisition by Finance Director from he was Group Chief its Group Finance Director.
accountant, and coming Danone in 2007.
Prior to that Executive of Imperial He was Senior Independent from a FTSE background, for Diageo for 20 years he was at Ernst & Young, Tobacco Group PLC from Director of Poundland Group he has held divisional invarious marketing and where he worked in the its incorporation in 1996 plc until September 2016.
CFOpositions at both general management corporate finance team.
AstraZeneca plc and positions, including Pilkington plc.
hisnalrole as global marketing director.
56 Governance Jonathan Nicholls Kathleen ODonovan Louise Smalley Iain Simm Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Group General Director Director Director Counsel and Company Secretary Key strength: Key strength: Key strength: Key strength: Extensive experience Extensive global Strong HR experience Legal expertise serving on boards experience of executive Extensive knowledge Wealth of experience and non-executive roles significant external ofpeople management, in assisting boards commercial experience M&A and restructuring rewards and with legal and experience remuneration schemes governance matters External appointments: Jonathan is Chairman External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: ofShaftesbury Plc None Louise is Group Human None Resources Director and He is also Chairman Principal Board an Executive Director of ofIbstock plc Committees Whitbread PLC Principal Board Audit Principal Board Committees Nomination Committees Audit Chair Remuneration Chair Audit Nomination Nomination Remuneration Remuneration Jonathan was appointed to Kathleen ODonovan was Louise was appointed Iain was appointed Group the Board on 1 December appointed to the Board as a to the Board on General Counsel and 2009 as a non-Executive Non-Executive Director on 23 June 2014 as a Company Secretary Director.
Senior Independent was appointed Chairman She has held a number Previously, he has held Director in 2012 and of the Remuneration of key HR roles at General Counsel and became Chairman of the Committee in September Whitbread PLC.
She Company Secretary Audit Committee in 2010.
2013 and is a member of previously worked as roles with BBA Aviation the Audit and Nomination He was previously Group an HRprofessional in plc and P&O Ports Ltd.
Finance Director of Hanson the oil industry, with undertook his legal training Plc and, most recently, She was Senior Independent BPand Esso Petroleum.
with Slaughter and May Group Finance Director of Director for ARM Holdings and worked for a number Old Mutual Plc.
plc until December 2015 of years in their corporate and chaired their Audit and commercial division.
Kathleen was also previously a non-Executive Director of Trinity Mirror plc, Prudential plc, EMI Group plc, O2 plc and Senior Independent Director of Great Portland Estates plc.
She served as a Director on the Court of the Bank of England from 1998 to 2004 and was Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc subsequently renamed Invensys plc from 1991 to 2002.
