Leadership Role and responsibilities of the Board Our governance structure unpacked.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and for ensuring leadership within a framework of eective controls.
The key roles of the Board are: Setting the strategic direction of the Group.
Overseeing implementation of the strategy by ensuring that the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its strategic aspirations.
The Board considers the impact of its decisions and its responsibilities to all of the Groups stakeholders.
Read about our key stakeholders on pages 59 and 60.
Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Leads the Board, sets the agenda and Provides a sounding board to the Chair and Contribute to developing our strategy.
promotes a culture of open debate between appraises his performance.
Scrutinise and constructively challenge Executive and non-Executive Directors.
Acts as intermediary for other Directors, the performance of management in Regularly meets with the Group Chief if needed.
the execution of our strategy.
Executive and other senior management Available to respond to shareholder to stay informed.
concerns when contact through the Ensures eective communication with normal channels is inappropriate.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees and monitors the Companys Reviews and recommends the framework Reviews the structure, size and composition financial statements, accounting processes and policy for the remuneration of the of the Board and its Committees.
and audits internal and external.
Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Identies and nominates suitable candidates Company Secretary and senior executives.
Controls matters relating to fraud and to be appointed to the Board and reviews the whistleblowing reports received via Considers the business strategy of the Group talent pool.
and how the remuneration policy reflects Considers wider elements of succession and supports that strategy.
planning below Board level, including diversity.
For more information see page 64 For more information see page 68 For more information see page 50 Disclosure Committee US Sub Committee General Purposes Committee The Group Chief Executive, the Group The Chief Executive of Indevco Group, Neemat The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Finance Director, the Chairman and the Frem, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, Director and the Chairman are the members.
Company Secretary are the members.
the Chair of the Audit Committee and the To facilitate swift and efficient operational Other Directors, representatives from Group Finance Director are the members.
management decision-making for the Companys brokers, members of the Other Directors, representatives from the business in relation to day-to-day Companys management and other external the internal Auditor and external Auditor, nancing and administrative matters.
advisers may attend meetings in whole or members of the Companys management in part, if invited.
and other external advisers may attend meetings in whole or in part, if invited.
The Disclosure Committee oversees the Companys compliance with its The US Sub Committee oversees the disclosure obligations.
strategic direction of business in the US together with any associated risks oropportunities in the business.
Governance in action case study We are building an even better business, focused on delivering sustainable value to all of our stakeholders.
Truly sustainable value is found when balancing the needs of our business, our environment and our people.
Emma Ciechan, director of Planning, Performance Miles Roberts Management & Sustainability, delivering an update to Group Chief Executive the Health and Safety and Sustainability Committee.
52 Governance Group Chief Executive Responsible for management of the Group as a whole.
Delivers strategic objectives within the Boards stated risk appetite.
Group Strategy Group Operating Group Health and Safety and Group Compliance Committee Committee Sustainability Committee Committee Chaired by Miles Roberts Chaired by Miles Roberts Chaired by Miles Roberts Chaired by Miles Roberts Meets monthly Meets monthly Meets monthly Meets quarterly The Group Finance Director, The Group Finance Director, The Group Finance Director, The Group Finance Director, divisional Chief Executives, divisional Chief Executives, divisional Chief Executives, the Group Risk Officer, the the Head of Strategy, the Head the Group Human Resources theGroup Human Resources Group Financial Controller of Mergers & Acquisitions, Director, the Group General Director, the Group Director of and the Group General Counsel the Group Human Resources Counsel and Company Secretary, Corporate Aairs, the Group and Company Secretary are Director and the Group General the Group Director of Corporate Health and Safety Director, the other members.
Oversees Counsel and Company Secretary Aairs, the Group Chief theDirector of Planning, compliance with all legal, are the other members.
Procurement Officer and Performance Management & regulatory and organisational Plans the business strategy the Group Chief Information Sustainability and the Group requirements including the implementation through the Officer are the other members.
General Counsel and Company eective interface between annual Corporate Plan process.
Considers Group-wide initiatives Secretary are the other the financial, legal, risk and The Corporate Plan is used to and priorities.
Oversees the internal audit functions.
develop the Groups strategy, implementation of strategy management processes, based on the set strategic and operational plans.
Reviews targets and strategies designed direction.
The Corporate Plans changes to policies and to manage health & safety focus is primarily on strategic procedures and facilitates the and environmental and social actions, supported by high discussion of the development risks and opportunities, and level financial information.
toensure compliance with the Our Corporate Plan covers Groups health and safety athree-year horizon and andenvironmental and isreviewed annually with  the Board.
Operating Divisions Corporate Functions Day-to-day business delivery Day-to-day business delivery Health and Safety and Sustainability Committee This committee provides the drive, insight and expertise to enable the business to operate ever more sustainably, by focusing on: Our people ensuring the safety, wellbeing and development of our colleagues and contributing to our communities.
We are keen to ensure DS Smith is an engaging employer where our people can thrive and full their potential.
Across our business we play an active role in our communities, enabling our people to support the causes that matter to them.
Our environment minimising our impact from design to production, and supply to recycling.
This commitment is a key part of how we are working to create a sustainable business model.
Throughout our operations and supply chains, from design to production and supply to recycling, we are reducing energy consumption, minimising waste and embedding the highest ethical standards to ensure the most positive impact on our environment.
