Introduction to Corporate Governance This section sets out our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy.
Diversity The Board this year There has been a continued focus on diversity during the year has maintained its with the publication of the Hampton-Alexander review, the McGregor Smith and Parker reviews during 2017 and the new particular focus on requirement for companies to publish gender pay gap information.
the Companys strategic The Board and I support the increased spotlight on this area and direction and on are committed to improving diversity throughout the Company, driving the creation of not just with regards to gender and ethnicity, but in the broader sustainable long-term sense to include diversity of thought, tenure, age, experience, value for shareholders.
skills, geographical expertise, education and professional background.
Studies have shown that diversity can add value to boards and their decision making.
The Board has reviewed our progress towards becoming a more diverse and inclusive business.
Board composition Part of my role is to keep the membership of the Board and its range of skills under review.
Ian Griffiths is stepping down as a Gareth Davis Chairman non-Executive Director with eect from 28 June 2018 and I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank him for his insightful contribution over the last three years.
A search Introduction for two new non-Executive Directors to join the Board is under It has been a year of considerable success, with DS Smith being way.
We are looking to appoint outstanding candidates with a admitted to the FTSE 100 Index.
This elevation is a reflection of diverse range of experience, to maximise Board eectiveness.
the excellent performance of all our employees, our consistent External evaluation of Board effectiveness organic growth and our proven expertise in In January this year, I commissioned an externally facilitated integrating acquisitions.
review of the Board and its committees to provide external input I recognise that with increased success comes increased scrutiny.
into their functioning and to identify ways in which to enhance I speak for all the Board when I say we are committed to the our overall eectiveness.
Details of the process, outcomes and highest ethical standards.
These apply in the way in which we actions are set out on page 58. engage with each other, our customers, employees, shareholders, Culture and values suppliers and other stakeholders.
Our reputation as a Group is founded on always meeting these high standards.
Fostering As Chairman, I am responsible for establishing and embedding the theright culture at DS Smith is critical to our success.
culture of the Board, which in turn sets the tone from the top for the culture of the Company.
Governance code New ambitions for our business require a shift in how we I rmly believe that good corporate governance is critical in lead and manage our people.
Earlier this year we launched our helping to build a successful business in a sustainable manner.
Management Standards which set the foundation for a common, During the year there have been various new regulations that the core and consistent view of what good management looks like Board has taken into account and they are covered in this report.
As part of this process, we carried out a review of The Board has discussed means of fostering a more meaningful our Group policies to better align them with the ever changing engagement between the Board and our workforce, in line with legal and regulatory environment.
You can read more about forthcoming Financial Reporting Council governance changes, this onpage 54. andI look forward to updating you on these initiatives next year.
46 Governance Shareholder and wider stakeholder engagement Compliance Statement The Groups key stakeholders and their diering perspectives The Board is committed to strong governance and during the were identied and taken into account as part of the Boards year the Company has complied with all the provisions of the 2016 strategy and corporate plan discussions.
These discussions UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code.
This report centred not only on delivering increased value for shareholders outlines how we have applied the Governance Codes main but also assessed the impact on the Groups wider stakeholders.
Published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Details of the Groups key wider stakeholders and the value of Governance Code is available at www.
uk the strategy for them is set out below.
The Board recognises Leadership the importance of regular, open and constructive dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders and this has long Your Board rigorously challenges strategy, performance, been a key aspect of our culture and decision making.
More responsibility and accountability to ensure that every decision information about how we engage with our stakeholder wemake is of the highest quality.
audience is set out on pages 59 and 60.
From page 54 Effectiveness Your Board continuously evaluates the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence of the Directors.
Wescrutinise the eectiveness of our performance in an annual Board evaluation and ensure that all new Directors receive a Gareth Davis tailored induction programme.
Chairman From page 58 17 June 2018 Accountability All of our decisions are discussed within the context of the risks involved.
Eective risk management is central to achieving our strategic objectives.
From page 40 Remuneration Having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors is crucial.
Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate by linking reward to performance.
From page 68 Relations with stakeholders Maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders, both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving our aims.
We hold events throughout the year to maintain an open dialogue with our investors.
From page 59 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
