DS Smith at a glance Our business We provide sustainable packaging solutions that help customers respond to some of their biggest challenges.
Our packaging, design and production is supported by paper making and recycling operations.
We are a leading international packaging company, sales, but we do so while ensuring lower cost and Packaging delivering leading edge products and the highest managing risk, resulting in a step change in our quality service across Europe and north America.
Our product portfolio includes consumer packaging, We complement our product range with consultancy displays and promotional packaging, specialist services on supply chain audit and creative design.
e-commerce packaging, customised protective Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and largely packaging, transit packaging and industrial packaging, made from recycled material, which means the packaging providing solutions for each market requirement.
we produce helps our customers achieve their own We partner with customers to develop innovative sustainability targets.
packaging solutions, ensuring their products achieve Corrugated packaging is typically produced within c. 200km more for less.
As supply cycle strategists, not only do of its destination due to the requirements for just-in-time we help specify packaging solutions to generate more delivery and the significant eect of transport cost.
We are a leading global manufacturer of sustainable the paper grades and the quality required by our Paper corrugated case material CCM, which is the paper used packaging business across the globe.
by the packaging industry for conversion into board for Paper is readily transportable and is traded globally.
We also make some specialist We operate eight paper mills in Europe principally paper grades such as plasterboard liner, all of which are dedicated to the production of recycled CCM and made from recyclable material.
two mills in the US, one of which makes recycled CCM We operate a unique paper sourcing platform that and the other virgin kraftliner from sustainable forest co-ordinates the decisions around make, buy, sell for products.
We also have two small mills in Europe making specialist papers.
We provide integrated recycling and waste manufacturers, local authorities, print, recycling and Recycling management services, ranging from simple recycling waste management companies.
collections through to full recycling and waste The recyclate we collect provides the most cost efficient management solutions.
raw material for the Groups paper making processes.
We are Europes largest cardboard and paper We also sell recyclate to third parties globally.
recycler, collecting c. 5. million tonnes annually and are one of the leading full recycling and waste management companies.
We harvest quality paper and cardboard for recycling from a range of sectors, including retailers, We specialise in plastic packaging that is reusable and Extruded products Plastics recyclable.
Our plastics business comprises flexible We design and manufacture extruded products such packaging and dispensing solutions, extruded and as corrugated plastic sheets and returnable transit injection moulded products and foam products.
We packaging for a variety of industries.
work with many of the worlds leading companies Injection moulded products in a diverse range of industries and markets.
We are a leader in Europe in the design and manufacture Plastic packaging is a specialist market with numerous of plastic beverage crates, pallets, speciality trays and niche products.
Flexible packaging and dispensing solutions Foam products Our product brands include Rapak, a global leader We design and manufacture foam moulded custom in bag-in-box packaging and lling systems, and designed components and protective packaging.
Worldwide Dispensers high quality precision moulding and customer design solutions.
2 Strategic report Our vision To be the leading supplier of sustainable packaging solutions.
Our culture We have a clear set of values that we expect all of our c. 22,800 employees to own and live by.
employees Over 200 manufacturing sites in 34 countries Over 16 billion boxes Be caring Be challenging Be trusted Be responsive Be tenacious per year We take pride in We are not afraid We can always We seek We get what we do and to constructively be trusted new ideas and things done.
we care about challenge each to deliver on understanding our customers, other and our promises.
and are quick c. 2,900 our people ourselves to to react to employees and the world nd a better opportunities.
com people countries c. 2.9 million tonnes CCM per annum How our revenue is spent c. 800 employees 14 countries Cost of sales: 2,992m Labour costs: 1,194m 26 recycling depots Other costs: 881m Depreciation, amortisation and impairment: 262m 2017 18 revenue Restructuring and investment: 75m Financing: 74m 5,765m Tax: 33m Dividends: 157m c. 2,000 Value retained by shareholders: 97m employees 13 countries 25 sites Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
