Market review Bringing solutions to challenges from a changing consumer landscape The consumer landscape is changing more e-commerce means more packaging in the home.
Changing shopper habits mean more frequent and smaller shopping trips.
Last-minute decision making means a greater emphasis on in-store product awareness.
Rising raw material costs mean food companies are constantly looking for greater efficiencies.
Sustainability matters consumers want packaging that does not litter the planet.
Market drivers The impact Retail and e-retail Packaging becomes designed for e-commerce fullment at the High growth in e-commerce.
outset, including being suitable for all elements of the supply chain and ultimately presentation to consumers as the Traditional retail in a state of flux, with large format stores packaging that is delivered to the home.
indecline and discount and convenience stores rising.
Packaging has to be adaptable to the needs of dierent store formats.
An increased importance of product presentation in the retail environment, which requires higher quality packaging.
Brands Packaging can help to dierentiate brands, large and small.
Large brands, while clearly still significant, are being Packaging can oer personalisation.
challenged by micro-brands, for example those sold direct to Packaging can provide links to information about the product, customers on subscription.
both enhancing the product and providing details about Consumers seek a more personalised or customised product.
Packaging is required that is better designed to minimise Social pressure for zero packaging waste void space and deliver value across the whole supply chain.
Packaging is still widely perceived as a problem, including excess packaging, voids in e-commerce, packaging that ends up as litter Recycled and recyclable packaging will be in greater demand, and unrecyclable materials that are badged as recyclable, for so long as this can be demonstrated and communicated.
Innovation is required to produce paper with higher Alternative materials performance strength without a significant increase in cost.
Without innovation, this drives up the cost of packaging.
Evolution of customer base Packaging businesses need to be able to oer innovative Customers are increasingly considering new routes to market, solutions to customers for e-commerce, in particular particularly in e-commerce where they may now need to omni-channel retailing.
participate in packaging products directly.
Packaging works within complex supply chains to drive value.
Consolidation among bricks-and-mortar retailers, accelerating the process towards omni-channel retailing.
Packaging needs to be more visually appealing and facilitate Changing demographics the primary product being chosen in store.
Consumers are more interested in making their brand choice inside a store, rather than driven by advertising viewed at home, Point of sale packaging, i. e. temporary displays commonly used online or through traditional media.
for promotional products which provide flexibility for retailers.
Packaging businesses will be required to take a more Legislation sophisticated approach on a pan-European basis, for Potential legislation in a number of areas, e. g. EU legislation on bre collection and recycling.
the circular economy and specic rules around contamination of bre.
Technology Packaging businesses will be required to invest more in Potential developments in paper.
technology around bre use in the recovery, pulping and paper making elds.
16 Strategic report Corrugated packaging market by country Our market environment The European corrugated packaging market is fragmented, with the top five corrugated packaging Europe North America producers estimated to comprise c. 40 per cent of the 51bsm 42bsm total European market.
The US corrugated packaging market, by way of contrast, is substantially consolidated with the top five corrugated packaging producers comprising c. 65 per Germany 20% US 85% cent of the US market.
Italy 13% Canada 7% France 11% Mexico 8% Plastic packaging is a global business with numerous Spain 10% niche products.
UK 9% Poland 8% Turkey 8% Other 21% Source: ICAA 2017 Source: ICAA 2017 The DS Smith response Corrugated packaging market by customer type DS Smith is well positioned, as a leader in corrugated packaging, to respond to these market trends.
We are responding in four ways.
Focus on multinational capability We continue to build our coverage across Europe and Europe United States also in the US, in order to serve customers who require amulti-national solution for their packaging.
Focus on e-commerce packaging and point of sale We are further building our expertise in this area FMCG and agriculture 43% FMCG and agriculture 43% with recruitment and allocation of resource within Industrial 39% Industrial 45% the business and investment in innovation to Other consumer 18% Other consumer 12% support major customers.
Source: FEFCO 2016 Source: FBA 2017 Focus on innovation, research and development We are continuing our investment in Impact Centres Corrugated case material CCM manufacturing by type and PackRight Centres with six opened in 2017 18 and more planned for 2018 19.
We also have a collaboration with a research institute in Sweden, associated with Stockholm University, to lead the Europe United States industry in paper science.
29mt 29mt Implementation of our performance packaging programme We are continuing our focus on optimal use of bre in packaging, both within our packaging business and in Recycled CCM 24 Recycled CCM 11 collaboration with our paper manufacturing operations.
Kraftliner 5 Kraftliner 18 Source: CEPI Source: FBA 2017: production for domestic consumption Notes: b sm billion square metres mt million tonnes CCM corrugated case material Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
