Strategic report P a c g k n a i l g c i n y c g e R Our differentiators We are dedicated to creating packaging that helps our customers sell more, that reduces their costs and that manages their business risks, while providing great service, quality and innovation.
We are able to do so because of the scale We help our customers achieve more of our business and our investment in innovation and process improvement.
More sales Our scale Increasing range, availability, activation, promotional Enables us to serve large customers eciently success and more on a multinational basis Our corrugated packaging presence throughout Europe and in the US enables us to serve customers Lower cost locally and with short lead-times.
Driving out waste, cost and carbon in packing, Long-standing relationships with a wide range warehousing and distribution of multinational fast-moving consumer goods FMCG customers.
Investment in innovation Managed risk Adds value to our customers Security, future proong, sustainable practice and Forward thinking approach.
regulatory compliance Network of Impact Centres and PackRight Centres.
Total value approach Aligns us with our customers who seek to maximise their eciency Sell more, reduce costs, manage risk.
Supply chain and market insight consultancy services.
Our people We employ dedicated, skilled and motivated people, and invest in ensuring that they understand how to play Supply Cycle their part in the success of the business.
We work hard to integrate new colleagues, including those who join Thinking from businesses acquired by DS Smith, as quickly Box-to-box recycling and smoothly as possible.
in 14 days Our strong corporate values underpin our culture and behaviours and are central to how wider value is created for our business and stakeholders.
Sustainability is at the heart of our business We have long recognised the importance of the circular economy.
Our packaging, paper and recycling operations are closely integrated.
Cardboard boxes are made, used, collected, recycled, pulped, pressed and made back into cardboard boxes again, from start to nish in as little as 14 days.
