Leadership Board activities An insight into how the Boards approach to governance supported the delivery of our strategy.
Strategic goal Board governance role Risk management framework Key activities in 2017 18 Determine risk appetite.
Retailing fails to evolve Carried out a robust assessment To delight our of principal key risks see pages customers Ensure the Company remains Governance 42 to 45, monitored and atthe forefront of developing Digital vulnerabilities reviewed the internal controls and embedding best practice in process and assessed the responsible business behaviour.
See our Grouprisk prole by identifying Maintain and enhance principal risks where the business key risks lay, DS Smiths culture and values on page 40 aligning them with the business for more and key policies and procedures risk appetite and highlighting detail.
and ensure these are rolled how to target and mitigate outto existing and those risks eectively.
Reinforced compliance with Continue to strengthen DS Smiths Code of Conduct and internal controls and reporting.
the Operating Framework, a document which sets out the Groups culture and values, aswell as its key policies and procedures, all in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance.
Annual evaluation of Talent barriers Continued to focus on the To realise the Board performance.
composition, balance and potential of our eectiveness of the Board.
people Review of the Undertook an external development pipeline.
evaluation of the Board, Continue to monitor senior You can read withthe aim of becoming executive talent management more about thebest Board we can be.
and development plans to how we Reviewed the key operational develop our provide succession for all people on roles and identied gaps in key positions.
page 22. experience needed to deliver Continue to increase the the strategy.
diversity of the Board and Held a number of meetings themanagement team.
withpeople in the senior talent pipeline to further improve information flow.
Reviewed the governance framework and continued roll out of training and awareness drivers for key policies.
Monitored senior executive talent management and development plans with succession planning for all key positions in mind.
Monitored health and safety performance across the Group and reviewed the lessons learned to keep our employees and others aected by our operations safe.
Regular Board updates received on actions improving health and safety.
54 Governance Strategic goal Board governance role Risk management framework Key activities in 2017 18 Keep financial key performance Sustainability promise Reviewed financial KPIs.
To lead the way indicators KPIs under review.
in sustainability Inability to secure paper supply Considered and approved Keep the Groups dividend policy theGroups dividend policy.
Unanticipated bre technology See also our under review.
Sustainability changes Further understanding and Report on Continue to monitor compliance planning actions in relation to our website.
new regulations over the period.
To double our Enhance the Boards Eurozone and Reviewed and approved size and strategic understanding of macro-economic limits theCorporate Plan.
profitability geopolitical and economic Concentration and Reviewed and approved risks in international markets.
consolidation of markets anumber of acquisitions, You can Approve the Corporate Plan including Interstate Resources.
Access to markets and read more andkeep it under review.
 Reviewed the potential impact in our Consider acquisitions and of the EU referendum Brexit strategic Process changes report on divestments as identied tothe business.
page 2. anddetermine appropriate course of action.
Board and Board Committee meetings attendance Nomination Audit Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting % attended Total number of meetings in 2017 18 9 4 4 5 1 Executive Directors Miles Roberts 9 4 N A N A 1 100% Adrian Marsh 9 N A N A N A 1 100% Non-Executive Directors Gareth Davis 9 4 N A 5 1 100% 1 Chris Britton 8 4 4 5 1 95% 2 Ian Griffiths 9 4 4 4 1 95% 1 Jonathan Nicholls 8 4 4 5 1 95% Kathleen ODonovan 9 4 4 5 1 100% Louise Smalley 9 4 4 5 1 100% In addition to the seven scheduled Board meetings, two ad hoc meetings were held to discuss business matters that the Chairman and Group Chief Executive decided should be considered by the Board.
All Directors received papers for all meetings and had the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings they wereunable to attend.
Chris Britton and Jonathan Nicholls were each unable to attend one ad hoc Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
Ian Griffiths was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
