Leadership Conversation with the Board The Directors talk about their approach to governance and what influences them.
What considerations and steps has DS Smith Does DS Smith have diversity initiatives taken towards effective engagement with and are they linked to the organisational wider stakeholders?
I have always found DS Smith to be committed DS Smith is a diverse and growing company.
to maintaining good communications with Ourbusinesses operate in many dierent stakeholders.
The employee engagement survey countries and we have colleagues with dierent is a very eective way of gauging what employees backgrounds and experiences.
Everyone has think is working and more importantly what is not something to bring because theres no such working.
There is an eective and empowered employee thingas universal experience.
Employees views are sought out, they are listened management do better, so its in our interests to make sure toand they see that their opinions count and make a that when we recruit, whether onto the Board, into senior dierence.
The Board level discussions around how these management or more widely, our workplaces better reflect opinions should be addressed is always very stimulating.
As a business, DS Smith works closely with the communities Diversity is not just a womens issue, or a racial issue or an in which it operates.
Although it is a global company, it is also educational issue.
Its something that we all benefit from.
As a responsible corporate citizen Diversity isnt a box-ticking exercise.
You cant just ll quotas DS Smith is aware of its potential to have a far reaching of people who all look a little bit dierent and expect the impact beyond the factory walls.
The business occupies an magic to happen if they all happen to think alike.
Real important place within the communities where it operates, diversity means people with dierent backgrounds, creating value through business operations and prosperity dierent ways of looking at the world, dierent interests for shareholders.
As a major employer, DS Smith has the and insights.
And it means everyone respecting and capacity to aect the lives and livelihoods of thousands seeingthe value in thinking that diers from their own.
Through global distribution networks DS Smith interacts indirectly with millions of consumers worldwide every single day.
As a Group, DS Smith is committed to engaging with all of these external stakeholders and toensuring that the influence it has is positive and mutually beneficial.
What makes the DS Smiths business model How does the Board monitor and challenge successful and how does it align with the the implementation of remuneration Companys purpose and values?
policy and its alignment with the Companysstrategic objectives?
Anyone who has ever heard me speaking The landscape for executive pay is continually about DS Smith knows that I think this is a changing.
Executive pay and gender pay gaps are great company by any measure.
DS Smith is at root an issue of fairness.
Last year I worked driven by the needs of our customers.
From with the Remuneration Committee and its design to production and supply to recycling, advisers to produce a clear remuneration policy we oer integrated solutions that address the entire that promotes the long-term success of the Company.
This supply cycle, creating simplicity from otherwise complex policy was adopted by shareholders with a 96.96% vote structures.
We work to leverage our scale and geographic infavour at the AGM in 2017.
As a modern employer, the footprint to supply our customers with the innovative Company takes its responsibilities under the new gender products they demand, with a level of service and quality pay regulations very seriously.
that sets us apart from our competitors.
The Remuneration Committee continued to ensure that We believe in Leading by Listening.
We listen to what decisions made during the year reflected our principles, ourcustomers want, rather than what the industry has Company performance and external considerations.
That is why at DS Smith we talk about importance of aligning our remuneration arrangements lightening the load for our customers.
If we listen to our with our strategic priorities played a crucial role in the customers, well nd out what they want, and then we Committees decision-making during the year.
canbecome the leader they are looking for.
48 Governance When looking at new appointments to the Operating in multiple jurisdictions with varying Board and succession planning more generally, legislative, social and cultural issues, to what what do you think makes an effective leader?
extent is the right thing to do guiding the Boards thinking as well as what is right legally?
Change these days happens more quickly and Complying with the law and doing the right thing more frequently and leaders need to be able without question is an integral part of the culture tocreate conditions that encourage purposeful and values of DS Smith and this will become even innovation and the ability to adapt as and when more relevant as the reputation of our business necessary.
So when we are recruiting I would say grows and we continue our expansion into new that we should always be looking for agile leaders, people markets and geographies.
who display some common traits.
It is important for all of our employees as well as protecting Agile leaders demonstrate humility.
They are able to the Company.
As DS Smith is now a FTSE 100 company and accept feedback and acknowledge that others might know continues to grow, we are subject to greater scrutiny, as more than they do.
They accept that well as being subject to greater regulatory requirements.
change is ever present and dynamic and that changing their Abiding by a compliance framework allows us to give all our minds based on new information is a strength rather than stakeholders confidence in DS Smith and avoid breaching aweakness.
They should be visionary, be someone with rules and regulations, which could lead to both corporate aclear sense of long-term direction, even in the face of and personal liability.
I look for someone who is engaged.
Someone with a willingness to listen, interact and communicate with internal and external stakeholders, with a strong sense of interest and curiosity in emerging trends.
What makes DS Smiths governance How does DS Smiths governance support the framework effective?
DS Smith keeps its governance framework under In the last year, the Board looked at a number of review to ensure it enhances the Boards ability acquisition prospects, two of which, Interstate to exercise proper oversight.
Governance is an Resources and EcoPaper and EcoPack, completed important element of the Board environment.
In both cases there were early support how DS Smith does business and how the discussions around the rationale for the Company serves stakeholders it needs to be relevant, authentic transaction, the potential synergies, the key risks and and meaningful.
As a Board we regularly discuss the evolving the key financial considerations.
Management and the regulatory environment and the internal governance processes Boards advisers produced a number of detailed papers underpinning programmes and initiatives.
tohelp the Board consider various aspects of the acquisition opportunities.
The governance process is simply the set of rules and procedures through which DS Smith is guided and controlled As a Board we discussed if these transactions would and it applies throughout the organisation.
Every local support the Companys longer-term strategic ambitions business makes sure they have something in place that anddeliver financial returns for shareholders and positive delivers full compliance both with local laws as well as wider benets for other stakeholders.
Doing so ensures that decisions are taken by the detailed planning and preparation carried out by the at the right time and at the correct level of the business integration team.
after the consideration of all relevant factors, ranging from commercial value to reputational risk.
com 49 Effectiveness Nomination Committee report The right skills, experience, independence and knowledge to embed the right culture.
Membership and operation of the Committee Member Since The Committee Gareth Davis Chair 2010 continues its work of Chris Britton 2013 ensuring the Board Ian Griffiths 2014 composition is right, Jonathan Nicholls 2009 that our governance Kathleen ODonovan 2012 iseffective and that succession is properly Miles Roberts 2010 planned for.
Louise Smalley 2014 The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Details of individual Directors attendance can be found on page 55.
Succession and diversity at Board and senior management levels Gareth Davis Chairman are key aspects of our agenda.
Our priorities over the year were as follows: Following Ian Griffiths decision to step down from the Key objective of the Nomination Committee Board in June 2018, to scope out the key skills, experience, To make sure the Board comprises individuals with the characteristics and requirements for two new necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that non-Executive Directors.
it is eective in discharging its responsibilities and has To keep under review succession planning at the Executive oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance.
Director level and support succession planning at senior Key responsibilities management levels.
Reinforcing the culture and diversity expertise in To review the skills matrices of the senior management team theBoards composition and maintaining ongoing following the Interstate Resources acquisition.
To review our progress on becoming a more diverse and Considering ways to improve diversity in the pipeline for inclusive business.
Succession planning Further strengthening of the senior management team.
The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and Reviewing the Groups talent management process.
During the year, the Committee held four formal meetings and there were regular updates.
Ian Griffiths, who has been a non-Executive Director of DS SmithPlc since June 2014, decided to step down from the Boardfrom 28 June 2018.
Given the growth of the Group and its Allocation of time increasing international presence, the Nomination Committee is Performance looking to further strengthen the Board with the appointment of evaluation: 10% two new non-Executive Directors.
The Committee discussed the Succession planning: 25% preferred skills and experience for the role specications and Talent pipeline: 25% considered the need for a robust selection process, facilitated Diversity: 25% byindependent executive search consultants.
We then invited Governance: 15% recruitment rms to participate in a selection process focusing ona series of key questions in order to identify the appropriate consultants to support our search.
The Committee discussed the responses and selected Russell Reynolds Associates.
Aside from assisting with recruitment, Russell Reynolds Associates has no other connection to the Company.
In line with best practice, during 2017 18 the Nomination Committee has also been exploring the contingency plan for unexpected departures and reviewed the Group Chief Executives succession plan.
The plan envisages the role being lled by either 50 Governance internal or external candidates and this discussion will be revisited can and should be able to realise their full potential in DS Smith in 2018 19. without experiencing inequality and unfairness on any grounds.
Diversity Independence and re-election of Directors DS Smith acknowledges the importance of diversity and inclusion The Board is satisfied that all of its non-Executive Directors to the eective functioning of the Board.
This includes diversity bringrobust independent oversight and continue to remain ofskills and experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, independent.
Biographical details of each Director can be cultural background and belief.
Currently, 25 per cent of our Board found onpages 56 to 57.
An evaluation of the performance roles are held by women.
Our Directors have experience of a wide of the Board was carried out by an external facilitator.
More range of industries and backgrounds, including FMCG, consumer information about this process and the resultant action plan products and financial services, as well as complex organisations canbe found on page 58. with a global reach.
Our Board diversity statistics can be Both Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalleys letters of appointment found below.
The Nomination Committee reviewed I believe that diversity should extend beyond the boardroom and so their commitment and contribution to the Board at the time and the Nomination Committee supports management in its eorts to was satisfied that their letters of appointment should be renewed build a diverse organisation.
In preparation for the first gender pay for a further three-year term.
gap reporting in April 2018, which is available on our website, we Following these evaluations by the Nomination Committee, looked at any factors that might lead to a gender pay gap across the theBoard recommends the re-election of all the Directors Group.
Through our internal initiatives, we have been exploring the who arestanding for re-election at the 2018 Annual General creation of a programme which aims to bring talented women back Meeting AGM.
Details about the Directors, including their into the workplace after a career break and to increase the number other directorships, can be found in their biographies of women in management roles.
For us, it is all about merit.
Board gender diversity Female: 25% Male: 75% Gareth Davis Chairman 17 June 2018 Board tenure 4 6 years: 62% 7 9 years: 38% Board composition Executive: 25% Non-Executive: 75% Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
