Our global footprint A leading provider of corrugated packaging supported by paper and recycling operations.
4 Strategic report Our corrugated packaging business operates in five geographic UK segments.
Recycling and paper form an integrated part of our global supply chain operations.
1,078m c. 5,100 Plastic packaging is a global business with manufacturing sites 2017 18 revenue Employees in the US, Europe and Asia Pacic.
Its products are sold globally.
United Kingdom Western Europe 1,450m c. 6,700 2017 18 revenue Employees Belgium, France, Netherlands, Portugal and Spain DCH and Northern Europe 1,083m c. 5,000 37 c. 200 2017 18 revenue Employees countries worldwide packaging manufacturing sites Denmark, Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland Central Europe and Italy 9 c. 28,500 Impact Centres people 1,429m c. 8,200 2017 18 revenue Employees Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czechia, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Poland, Romania, 33 12 Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Turkey PackRight Centres paper mills North America 379m c. 1,500 28 c. 8bn 2017 18 revenue Employees dierent languages square metres of corrugated board per annum United States Plastics 346m c. 2,000 2017 18 revenue Employees Global consultancy and sourcing capability We have an independent packaging consultancy business, to help our customers make their packaging design work better for their brands by enhancing product utility and reducing environmental impact.
Our consultants oer a global solution from offices based in the UK, Belgium, the US, India and China.
We also oer global sourcing support through our Total Marketing Support TMS operations for customers who seek a consistent approach from their packaging, sourced in regions beyond DS Smiths current manufacturing footprint.
com 5 Acquisition a platform for growth in the US On 25 August 2017 we completed the acquisition of Interstate customers will provide significant opportunities for profitable Resources and in doing so created our North America Packaging growth over the coming years.
The acquisition of Interstate and Paper NAPP division.
This acquisition followed consistent Resources in August 2017 and the acquisition of Corrugated customer feedback that they also required the quality, service Container Corporation in June 2018 provides us with 16 and innovative packaging solutions that we provide in Europe packaging sites across the eastern United States, well located to be provided in the US too.
Europe in general, and DS Smith in for our global customers.
In addition, we have integrated particular, has been at the forefront of retail ready packaging Interstate Resources two paper mills into our global supply which has allowed our fast-moving consumer goods customers engine allowing us to optimise our short paper position on a to both reduce their costs and also to drive sales in an increasingly transatlantic basis, which has already contributed significant competitive multi-channel retail environment.
The US packaging value to our business.
We have been delighted with the market is starting to recognise and adopt a similar approach contribution of NAPP and in May 2018 upgraded our and we believe the leadership and credibility we have with our synergies for a second time to $35 million.
of our top 20 European customers have US operations 17 Every day we deliver no matter where in the world our customers are 6 Strategic report Performance packaging opportunity Continuing to grow Performance packaging is our way of describing our approach to We have grown strongly in Europe and the US, with volume growth making boxes specified according to the strength of box required, for corrugated boxes 5.2 per cent in 2017 18 and north America not the materials used to construct it.
By focusing on the box ahead of this rate.
On 1 June 2018, we made a small additional strength, we have been successful in reducing the weight of paper acquisition in the US comprising four packaging sites with scope used, which is beneficial to both us and our customers.
In the US, the to grow their output.
weight of corrugated packaging is around 25 per cent heavier than that used in Europe and around 50 per cent heavier than that used in the UK.
Our US customers have been extremely responsive to this concept which has been a contributor to the excellent volume.
Average board weight gsm Annual box volume growth % United Kingdom 430 2016 3.1 Europe 525 2017 3.2 United States 650 2018 5.2 We are creating scale within DS Smith to extend our reach further and faster Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 7 Expertise in e-commerce We are working with some of the worlds biggest brands to We have developed Made2t, an innovation to tackle the navigate new ways of selling online and being the provider to e-commerce challenge of void space.
Creating the right-sized the ebay generation through our new online packaging store pack lowers costs for e-retailers by reducing both operational epack.
As e-commerce grows we are helping solve the biggest and shipping cost, saving storage space, reducing labour costs challenges including saving the empty space that is wasted in and order administration and signicantly cutting assembly online shopping deliveries.
It also reduces product movement, helping to reduce damage and hence the rate of product returns.
The resulting process helps customers prepare for omni-channel retailing, i. e. packaging that can be used in any retail environment.
45% Average void space in e-commerce packaging Every day we deliver to help customers adapt and unlock new value 8 Strategic report Expertise in high performance paper Showcasing innovation We are investing in light-weight paper to make optimum We have a network of Impact Centres and PackRight Centres packaging.
Our recently acquired mill in Romania specialises throughout Europe.
Our Impact Centres are designed to provide in such paper, which will maximise our opportunity to inspiration to customer and retailers, demonstrating what is deliver performance packaging to customers in the possible with well designed packaging.
Our PackRight Centres eastern Europe region.
are where we work in detail in a multi-disciplinary team with our customers to develop the optimum packaging for them.
6 42 New PackRight Centres PackRight and Impact opened in 2017 18 Centres throughout Europe Our investments in innovation are helping customers solve big challenges, from performance to waste reduction Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 9 Every day we deliver in sustainable and responsible ways Sustainability is at the heart of what we do Sustainable forestry 14 day box-to-box cycle with materials re-used seven times We acquired forestry assets in 2017, located in south east Georgia.
com paper insights blogs 2017 11 With a total area of c. 18 thousand acres, they are managed on .
a sustainable basis, with at least one tree planted for each one felled.
Georgias forest area has remained stable over the past Corrugated packaging is a fully recyclable product.
50 years at c. 24 million acres, demonstrating the sustainable Fibre-based packaging has the highest recycling rate of any management in place in the state.
packaging material proving that, unlike plastic alternatives, it is both recyclable and recycled in practice.
95 per cent of our sites have a recognised chain of custody c. 18,000 acres certication such as FSC, PEFC or SFI and we are committed sustainably managed forest to sourcing only sustainable bre.
10 Strategic report Inspired by The Power of Less, we redefine packaging, fit for amodern shared world Solving the coffee cup challenge With one in five people visiting one of the UKs c. 20,000 We have put in place solutions to recycle all UK coee coee shops every day, the non-recyclability of paper coee cups at our mill but we still have some challenges to cups has regularly been in the headlines.
DS Smith has taken overcome, because there needs to be improvements leadership in order to solve this increasingly unacceptable in the infrastructure to segregate and collect coee situation, with raised public awareness of landll and the cups from consumers all over the UK.
failure to reuse scarce resources.
That is why DS Smith is That is why DS Smith is working with the coee cup supply committed to providing a solution for how these cups chain, policy makers, the recycling industry and coee lovers could berecycled.
across the UK to build a sustainable, long-term recycling Following recent trials, we have announced that our ground solution.
We can then potentially extend the model further.
breaking UK paper mill has the capacity to recycle up to 2.5 billion coee cups the amount used in the UK every year.
