Our strategy To double our size and profitability We aim to double our size and profitability by growing through market share gains, investing behind growing parts of the corrugated packaging market and making acquisitions.
Return on sales We do this by Definition Winning market share Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and adjusting items as Growing with our customers a percentage of revenue.
Expanding our footprint through acquisitions and greeneld sites Target Building a resilient and sustainable business model Our performance 8-10% In 2017 18 we delivered: Why this is a KPI 5.2 per cent underlying box volume growth The margin we achieve is a reflection of the value we deliver to 17 per cent revenue growth constant currency our customers and our ability to charge for that value.
It is also 16 per cent adjusted operating profit growth driven by our scale.
A higher return on sales makes the profit constant currency more resilient to adverse eects.
Expansion of our corrugated packaging and paper operations 2018 Performance into north America In 2018 we achieved a return on sales of 9.2 per cent, broadly High growth from multinational and e-commerce customers consistent with the prior two years and in the upper half of our In 2018 19 we will: target range of 810 per cent.
This has been delivered despite Continue to drive growth through investment and acquisitions substantial short-term headwinds from the very significant rise in paper prices over the year, which is the largest input to our Optimise our manufacture and sourcing of CCM corrugated packaging.
These input cost increases have been Maximise efficiency of operations and procurement recovered progressively through the year, with a time lag.
Our KPIs 2016 9.3% Like-for-like corrugated volume growth 9.3% 2017 Definition 2018 9.2% Like-for-like volume of corrugated box products sold excluding the eect of acquisitions and disposals measured by area.
Adjusted return on average capital employed Target ROACE weighted GDP 1% target Definition Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and adjusting items as GDP 1% a percentage of average capital employed, including goodwill, over the prior 12 month period.
Why this is a KPI We target volume growth above GDP because we expect to win Target market share by delivering value to our customers across their supply chain on a multinational basis.
We invest in areas that we expect to grow ahead of GDP, such as e-commerce packaging and 12-15% display packaging.
Why this is a KPI 2018 Performance Our target ROACE of 1215 per cent, to be delivered throughout In 2018 our corrugated box volumes grew 5.2 per cent consistently the economic cycle, is above our cost of capital.
ROACE is a key throughout the year.
This is signicantly ahead of the target of measure of financial success and sustainability of returns and GDP 1 per cent being 3.5 per cent and represents a step change reflects the returns available for investment in the business compared to prior years.
The drivers behind this are success in our and for the servicing of debt and equity.
All investments and recently acquired north American business along with significant acquisitions are assessed with reference to this target.
growth in Germany and eastern Europe.
2018 Performance 2.8% 3.1% 2016 In 2018 we achieved a ROACE of 14.1 per cent, near the top of 2017 2.8% 3.2% our target range.
This includes the acquisition of Interstate Resources, which joined the Group on 25 August 2017.
