Whilst easyJet has no current intention of exercising these OUTLOOK powers, the position will be kept under review pending the easyJet continues to see the current market environment as outcome of Brexit negotiations between the UK and the EU, an opportunity to build and strengthen its network and along with other options.
customer experience for the long term.
Currently, approximately 47% of easyJets equity capital easyJet plans to grow capacity by around 10% for the 2019 isheldby qualifying nationals, if UK nationals are excluded, financial year, and by around 15% in the first half year.
Forward andtherefore approximately 53% by non-qualifying nationals.
bookings for the first half are 50%.
Consequently, if no withdrawal agreement is agreed or Bookings for next summer look promising at this very early approved, and there is therefore no transition period, it may stage, slightly ahead of summer 2018. become necessary for those powers to be exercised, and or 8 for other actions to be taken to reduce the proportion of On a like-for-like accounting basis revenue per seat for non-qualifying nationals owning easyJet shares, in advance thefirst half is expected to be down by low to mid-single ofBrexit on 29 March 2019, so as to be compliant with the digits, in line with previous guidance, including the effect relevant EU requirement.
ofannualisation of one-off revenue benefits from the 2018 financial year, dilution from Tegel and the effect of Easter easyJet currently expects to take action in respect of its level moving into the second half of the year.
of ownership by non-qualifying nationals only if there is a real risk of a no deal Brexit in the run up to 29 March 2019 and if Adjusting for the impact of IFRS 15, revenue per seat in the the proportion of equity capital held by qualifying nationals firsthalf is currently expected to be down by mid-single digits excluding UK nationals remains below the required level of mainly due to new treatment of booking fee revenue which 50% plus one share.
If the EU and the UK reach agreement on isnow recognised at the time of flying and which will benefit the terms of withdrawal, and a transition period is agreed, it is the second half of the year, as well as the revised treatment of not anticipated that any action would be required in respect of disruption costs which are now partially offset against revenue.
the level of ownership by non-qualifying nationals until at least On a like-for-like accounting basis total headline cost per seat the later stages of the Brexit transition period which is expected excluding fuel at constant currency assuming normal levels to end no earlier than 31 December 2020. easyJet continues ofdisruption is expected to be flat for the 12 months to to monitor developments but currently considers it would be 30September 2019.
This includes one-off expenditures on inappropriate to commit to a set plan whilst the Brexit outcome thestrategic initiatives to drive margin and returns in the long remains uncertain.
easyJet will provide a further update as term.
Adjusting for the impact of IFRS 15 total headline cost appropriate in due course.
per seat excluding fuel at constant currency is expected LONGER TERM FOCUS toimprove slightly as some disruption cost is offset against Monthly traffic statistics revenue, as noted above.
IFRS 16 is not expected to have a To reduce the short-term speculative impact around monthly material impact on cost as the annual operating lease expense traffic statistics, easyJet has decided to change the way it and maintenance charges will be replaced by anticipated reports monthly passenger numbers and load factors, which similar levels of depreciation and interest expense.
will now be reported within the quarterly reporting framework Capital expenditure for the 2019 financial year is expected in the same manner as our OTP reporting.
Historic information toremain in line with previous guidance at 1 billion.
will be available on a dedicated webpage.
9 Based on todays fuel prices, unit fuel costs for the year Key performance indicators to30September 2019 are expected to be a headwind of easyJet has set a number of internal and external Key between 50 million and 100 million as a result of easyJets Performance Indicators KPIs that align to the Our Plan advantaged hedging position.
The major external KPIs that will be reported from the 2019 financial year are as follows: 10 The total expected headline foreign exchange impact for theyear to 30 September 2019 is expected to be a headwind Profit per seat of around 10 million.
On-time performance arrival within 15 minutes Customer satisfaction score Return on capital employed ROCE Earnings per share CO emissions per passenger kilometre 2 Over the longer term easyJet is confident that its strategy andpositioning will deliver substantial value for its shareholders.
easyJet will focus on: maintaining capital discipline and maximising ROCE: 8 Applying IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 17 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: maximising profit per seat by underlying business Recognition and Measurement.
improvement, profit from new initiatives and benefits to 9 Unit fuel is calculated as the difference between the latest estimate revenue and cost from data: and offinancial year 2019 fuel costs less the financial year 2018 fuel cost perseat, multiplied by the financial year 2018 seat capacity.
Based generating sustainable positive net cash flow after onfuel spot price range of $675- $760.
payment of the ordinary dividend and investment in the 10 US$ to Sterling 1.28, Euro to Sterling 1.12, Swiss Franc to fleet through profitability and fleet flexibility.
Currency, capital expenditure and fuel increases areshown net of hedging impact.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Investing in number one and OVER two airports: 400 BERLIN TEGEL FORMER AIR BERLIN easyJet acquired part of Air Berlins operations at CREW Berlin Tegel Airport in December 2017, and launched RECRUITED its own operations on 5 January 2018 with the first BY EASYJET easyJet flight from Berlin Tegel to Munich.
In June 2018, we welcomed our 300th aircraft into the fleet on a new route between Berlin Tegel and Cologne Bonn, marking another milestone in our network expansion.
By 30 September 2018, we had 23 aircraft based inBerlin Tegel.
The flying schedule was initially supported by wet leased aircraft during the transition 3.9 period from January to October 2018, but Tegel is now totally orange, with the final wet leased flight MILLION operated on 31 October 2018.
PASSENGERS The implementation of Tegel operations has ON TEGEL demonstrated the strong operational depth at easyJet and the ability to drive substantial change ROUTES atpace, with 3.9 million passengers flown on IN THE 2018 Tegelroutes by 30 September 2018.
FINANCIAL YEAR Our new routes are especially popular with businesstravellers, who now account for over 50% ofpassengers on our German domestic routes.
We have also welcomed over 400 former Air Berlin employees into our family, with 182 pilots and 223 cabin crew recruited by 30 September 2018.
Its all part of our plan to become number one or number two in our keyairports, seamlessly connecting Europe with the warmest welcome in the sky.
22 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 AIRCRAFT BASED AT BERLIN TEGEL AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 OVER 50% BUSINESS TRAVELLERS 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Around 50% QUIETER ON TAKEOFF AND LANDING THAN PREVIOUS GENERATION AIRCRAFT Up to Up to 9% 20% COST PER COST PER SEAT SAVING SEAT SAVING VS A320NEO VS A319 235 SEATS 24 15% REDUCTION IN FUEL BURN AND CO EMISSIONS 2 NEW ENGINE OPTION VS PREVIOUS GENERATION ENGINE IN EQUIVALENT AIRCRAFT MODEL Value by efficiency: the A321neo In July 2018, the first of our Airbus A321neo aircraft joined the easyJet fleet, registered under the UK AOC as G-UZMA.
Equipped with the Airbus Cabin Flex seating option and new emergency exit configuration, these aircraft have 235 passenger seats.
The new aircraft type isexpected to deliver up to a 9% cost per seatreduction compared to our A320neo, and up to a 20% reduction compared to our A319.
The new engines are around 50% quieter on takeoff and landing than previous generation engines, and reduce fuel burn and CO emissions by 15%.
This makes the 2 A321neo our largest, quietest, most cost-efficient andmost eco-friendly aircraft yet.
easyJet first announced the conversion of 30 orders for A320neo aircraft to A321neo aircraft on16May 2017.
14 months later, on 16 July 2018, G-UZMA took off onits first commercial revenue service from Gatwick to Faro.
The A321neo onboard service was designed in close collaboration with our front-line cabin crew, with a focus group including representatives from ourmajor bases throughout Europe.
The first six A321neo aircraft will be based at Gatwick.
The increased capacity will help us grow at slot-constrained airports and enable us to offer low faresto more people onour most popular business and leisure routes.
Todate, our A321neos are predominantly operatingflights between Gatwick andmid-range leisure destinations.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Winning our 1 IN 5 customers PEOPLE IN THE UK PREFER TO loyalty 1 FLY EASYJET Our brand position is continuing to strengthen in our core markets and is driving greater customer loyalty as we focus on continuously improving our customer offer.
At easyJet we pride ourselves on making travel easy, enjoyable and affordable for customers whether it isfor business or leisure, seamlessly connecting Europe with the warmest welcome in the sky.
Through investing in the brand and service, innovation and strong operational performance, weaim to retain and grow our customer base.
easyJet is now number one low-cost carrier in value 1 for money perceptions in all of its core markets.
easyJet was named Best Value Short-Haul Airline bySkyscanner in 2018. easyJet was voted Best Low Cost Airline by Business Traveller magazine in 2018.
In Berlin, perceptions around our brand have made asignificant leap forward with a six percentage point increase in customers who would seriously consider 1 flying easyJet since last year.
The customer perception ofeasyJet in Germany speaks to easyJets offering, giving customers value for money, as well as ease.
1 Millward Brown brand tracker 26 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Over 66% OF PEOPLE IN EASYJETS CORE MARKETS UK, FRANCE, ITALY, SWITZERLAND WOULD SERIOUSLY 1 CONSIDER FLYING EASYJET 75% OF PEOPLE IN ALL EASYJETS MAIN MARKETS THINK EASYJET IS VALUE 1 FOR MONEY 27
