STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED The business is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices and GOING CONCERN USdollar and Euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is easyJets business activities, together with factors tohedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures likelytoaffect its future development and performance, 12months in advance, and between 45% and 65% of aredescribed in the strategic report on pages 2 to 58. estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
Principalrisks and uncertainties are described on pages Specific decisions may require consideration of a longer 38to 48.
Note 23 to the accounts sets out the Groups term approach.
Treasury strategies and actions will be objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital drivenby the need to meet treasury, financial and corporate and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments objectives.
The Group was compliant with this policy at the held by the Group.
date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
At 30 September 2018, the Group held cash and cash After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable equivalents of 1,025 million and money market deposits expectation that the Company and the Group will be able of348 million.
Total debt of 977 million is free from tooperate within the level of available facilities and cash financial covenants, with 9 million due for repayment in anddeposits for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they theyear to 30 September 2019. continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Net current liabilities at 30 September 2018 were 59 million, Annual Report and Accounts.
including unearned revenue payments made by customers for flights scheduled post year end of 877 million.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable VIABILITY STATEMENT expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to The Directors have assessed easyJets viability over a continue in operation and meet all liabilities as they fall due three-year period to September 2021.
This is based on up to September 2021.
In making this statement, the athree-year strategic plan, which gives greater certainty Directors have also made the following key assumptions: overthe forecasting assumptions used.
funding for capital expenditure in the form of capital In making their assessment, the Directors took account markets debt, bank debt or aircraft leases will be ofeasyJets current financial and operational positions available in all plausible market conditions: andcontracted capital expenditure.
They also assessed thepotential financial and operational impacts of the there will not be a prolonged grounding of a substantial principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 38 to 48 portion of the fleet: and insevere but plausible scenarios, including the impact of a the terms on which the United Kingdom leaves the EU sustained significant adverse movement in foreign currency are such that easyJet will be able to continue to operate exchange rates or jet fuel prices and the likely degree of over broadly the same network as at present and there effectiveness of current and available mitigating actions.
will be no material and sustained economic downturn following the United Kingdoms exit from the EU.
36 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
