GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The Directors present their report and audited accounts for DIVIDEND the year ended 30 September 2018.
This Directors report The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, with andthe strategic report, which includes the trends and factors apayout ratio of 50% of headline profit after tax, resulting likely to affect the future development, performance and inadividend of 233 million or 58.6 pence per share.
position of the business and a description of the principal risks The ordinary dividend is subject to shareholder approval and uncertainties of the Group which can found on pages 39 attheCompanys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held to 48 and is incorporated by reference, collectively comprise on 7February 2019 and will be payable on 22 March 2019 to the management report as required under the Disclosure and theshareholders on the register at the close of business on Transparency Rules DTR.
1March 2019. easyJets dividend policy is to pay shareholders 50% of ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES headline profit after tax, reflecting the Boards confidence in In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys the long-term prospects of the business.
Listing Rules, the information to be included in the 2018 THE BOARD Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under Appointment and retirement of Directors LR9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report, with the Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by exception of details of transactions with controlling anordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting shareholders which are set out on page 149 note 27 following nomination by the Board or a member or members tothe accounts.
entitled to vote at such meeting or following retirement by Other information that is relevant to this report, and rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general which is incorporated by reference, can be located meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director asfollows: tofilla vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that theindividual retires at the next AGM.
ADirector may be INFORMATION PAGE NO removed by the Company as provided forby applicable law, Membership of Board during incertain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of 2018 financial year See pages 61 to 63 Association for example bankruptcy or resignation, or by an Directors service contracts See pages 95 to 97 ordinary resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
All Financial instruments and Directors stand for election at the AGM following their financial risk management See pages 142 to 147 appointment, and stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Carbon emissions See page 55 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to issuing Corporate governance report See pages 67 to 86 or buying back shares Future developments of the Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of business of the Group See pages 13 to 21 Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Employee equality, diversity Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or and inclusion See pages 53 to 54 market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an Employee engagement See page 53 appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in a general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
The shareholders delegated the The Annual Report and Accounts have been drawn up and following powers in relation to the issuing or market purchase presented in accordance with UK company law and the by the Company of its shares at the Companys 2018 AGM: liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
up to approximately 10% of its issued share capital: easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and authority to allot equity securities, without first offering isregistered in England with the registered number 3959649. them to existing shareholders in proportion to their easyJet plcs registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton holdings, with a nominal value of up to approximately Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
The Companys 5%of its issued share capital: and registrars are Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect authority to make market purchases of its own shares, House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
upto a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
These standard authorities will expire on 8 May 2019, or at theconclusion of the AGM in 2019, whichever is the earlier.
TheDirectors will seek to renew the authorities at the AGM in 2019.
As at 19 November 2018, none of these authorities had been exercised.
During the 2018 financial year, no ordinary shares in the Company were issued.
106 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors conflicts of interest Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions easyJet, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
ontransfers of shares other than: The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts certain restrictions which may from time to time be of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association also contain imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts insider dealing: of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his or her duty pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby under company law.
Should a Director become aware that he the Directors and designated employees require approval or she has an interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or to deal in the Companys shares: proposed transaction with easyJet, he or she should notify theBoard in line with the Companys Articles of Association.
where a person with an interest in the Companys shares Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to their conflicts of interest.
provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares: Directors indemnities where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares has Directors and officers insurance cover has been established failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality for all Directors to provide cover for their reasonable actions together with such evidence as the Directors may require on behalf of the Company.
A deed was executed in 2007 as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and or itssubsidiaries as a supplement to the Directors and officers the powers given to the Directors by the Companys insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a qualifying Articles of Association to limit the ownership of the third-party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of Companys shares by non-UK nationals or, following a the Companies Act 2006, were in force during the 2018 decision of the Directors, by non-EU nationals, and powers financial year and remain in force for all current and past to enforce this limitation, including the right to force a sale Directors of the Company.
SHARES There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save Share capital and rights attaching to shares insituations where the Company is legally entitled to Details of the authorised and issued share capital during the imposesuch a restriction for example under the Articles year are provided in note 18 to the accounts on page 139. ofAssociation where an Affected Shares Notice has been served, amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, On 30 September 2018, there was a single class of 397,208,133 orthe holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence in issue, each with one vote.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary transfer ofsecurities or voting rights.
shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of Employee share schemes rights of control ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan the Plan the Companys Articles of Association, to: will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or have shareholder documents made available to them, scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, or including notice of any general meeting: inrelation to any resolutions proposed at a general meeting including the AGM, invite participants todirect the trustee attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general onthe exercise of any voting rights attaching to the ordinary meetings, either in person or by proxy: and shares held by the trustee on theirbehalf and or direct how participate in any distribution of income or capital.
the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary shares.
The trustee shall take no action inrespect of ordinary shares for which it has received no direction to vote, or in respect of ordinary shares which are unallocated.
On a poll, the trustee shall vote in accordance with directions given by participants.
In the absence of directions, or on a show of hands, the trustee shall not vote.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust Revolving credit facility theTrust, which is used to acquire and hold shares in the The Group is party to a revolving credit facility RCF which Company for the benefit of employees, including in connection contains change of control provisions.
The effect of a change with the easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan, the International of control would be that unless otherwise agreed by the Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn plans, has the Company and the agent of the lenders: power to vote or not vote, at its absolute discretion, in respect a lender would not be obliged to fund a utilisation of of any shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
thefacility: However, in accordance with good practice, the trustee the commitment of the lenders would be cancelled: and adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
all amounts accrued would become immediately due Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan and andpayable.
the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property A new RCF was reviewed and approved by the Finance of each of the trusts.
The new RCF amount is 250 million, supported equally by five banks, and is for a period of two Substantial interests years ending in July 2020.
In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DTR 5, the Company, as at 30 September 2018, has been As at 19 November 2018 no amounts had been drawn down notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued under either RCF.
ordinary shares: EMTN Programme and Eurobond issue Number of % of issued share On 7 January 2016, the Group established a Euro Medium shares as notified capital as at 30 to the Company September 2018 Term Note Programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a standardised documentation The Haji-Ioannou family concert 133,977,772 33.73% platform to allow for senior unsecured debt issuance in the party shareholding, consisting Eurobond markets.
The maximum potential issuance under of easyGroup Holdings Limited theEMTN Programme is 3 billion.
The EMTN Programme holding vehicle for Sir Stelios wassubsequently updated on 6 February 2018.
Haji-Ioannou and Clelia HajiIoannou and Polys Haji-Ioannou Under the EMTN Programme, the following notes the Notes through his holding vehicle have been issued by the Company: Polys Holdings Limited February 2016: Eurobonds consisting of 500 million Invesco Limited 39,717,251 9.99% guaranteed notes paying 1.75% interest and maturing in Blackrock, Inc. 20,021,980 5.04% February 2023: and Note: Since 30 September 2018, Blackrock, Inc. has made a further October 2016: Eurobonds consisting of 500 million notification to the Company, being a disclosure of a decrease in its holding guaranteed notes paying 1.125% interest and maturing in to below the 5% threshold.
No other changes in the above havebeen October 2023. disclosed to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure Guidanceand Transparency Rule DTR 5, between 30 September 2018 and 19 November Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the Notes, the 2018.
All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance withDTR 5 that have occurred since 30 September 2018 can be found at easyJets Company will be required to make an offer to redeem corporate website: http: corporate.
orpurchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest up tothe date of redemption or repurchase if there is a change ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ofcontrol of the Company which results in a downgrade of Amendment of the Articles of Association thecredit rating of the notes to a non-investment grade The Companys Articles of Association may only be ratingor withdrawal of the rating by both Moodys and amendedby a special resolution at a general meeting of Standard & Poors.
Other agreements Change of control provisions The Company does not have agreements with any Director or The following significant agreements which were in force at employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 19November 2018 take effect, alter or terminate on a change or employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, of control of the Company.
except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
108 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Political donations and expenditure easyJet works constructively with all levels of government Rules, on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into suchan agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou easyJets across its network, regardless of political affiliation.
easyJet believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the founder andeasyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which SirSteliosholds a beneficial interest and which holds shares democraticprocess, however it is easyJets policy not to make politicaldonations.
inthe Company on behalf of Sir Stelios the Relationship Agreement.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, There were no political donations made or political expenditure Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings Limited have agreed incurred during the 2018 financial year.
toprocure the compliance of Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou withthe independence obligations contained in the Independent auditor and disclosure of information Relationship Agreement.
Sir Stelios, easyGroup, Polys and to the auditor CleliaHaji-Ioannou together comprise controlling shareholders The Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ensure any of the Company who have a combined total holding of audit-related information has been brought to the attention approximately 33% of the Companys voting rights.
The Directors are not aware of anyrelevant information which has not been disclosed to The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship theauditor.
Agreement on 14 November 2014 until 19 November 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of A resolution to reappoint  LLP thisAnnual Report and Accounts: asauditor of the Group will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own, or together so far as the Company is aware, the independence with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have ormore of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially been complied with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia allmatters at general meetings of a Company are known as and Polys Haji-Ioannou and their associates: and controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys so far as the Company is aware, the procurement Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is been complied with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies HoldingsLimited.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: 2019 Annual General Meeting The 2019 AGM will be held at 10.00am on Thursday, 7February transactions and arrangements with the controlling 2019 at Hangar 89, LondonLuton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, shareholder and or any of its associates will be LU2 9PF.
Aseparate circular, comprising a letter from the conducted at arms length and on normal Chairman, Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes on the commercialterms: resolutions proposed, will be issued separately on 8 January neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its 2019 and willalso be published on easyJets corporate website associateswill take any action that would have the at http: corporate.
effectof preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended tocircumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
