pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 09 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Strategy Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Report For the year ended 31 March 2018 The portfolio remains heavily weighted in Market Review the tobacco sector, with investments in Altria, British American Tobacco BAT, The UK stock market delivered flat Imperial Brands and Reynolds American performance over the 12 month period now merged with BAT.
This outcome masked some have delivered exceptional returns for price volatility as the FTSE All-Share index shareholders over the long term.
However, reached an all-time high at the end of over the past year the sector was impacted 2017.
However this strength proved to be by headwinds which resulted in a negative temporary as the market weakened in the performance.
In 2017, the stock market early months of 2018.
The period was focused on plans announced by the dominated by the countervailing forces US Food and Drug Administration to launch of better global economic growth, with a consultation on lowering nicotine levels in associated increases in anticipated interest cigarettes regulation which may be rates, and ongoing political concerns, expected to take some time to come to especially domestically focused around the fruition.
Subsequent underperformance Mark Barnett Brexit negotiations.
The combination of resulted from the weakness of the Portfolio Manager these two opposing factors, alongside US dollar and the profit impact on significant foreign exchange movements, translation into sterling, as well as the led to increased polarisation of sector shift in market sentiment towards more performance in the UK stock market.
economically sensitive sectors in a period of rising bond yields.
The markets rise of 2017 was led by a rally in the oil and mining sectors, on the This negative performance came despite back of an improving outlook for global the successful completion last year by BAT growth, while sterling fell in response to the of the acquisition of Reynolds American surprise outcome of the UK general creating an entity which is well positioned election.
However, in the final quarter of to exploit both traditional cigarettes and the period, rising geopolitical uncertainty, next generation products, particularly in including the possible impact of trade wars, the key US market.
The headwinds and strength in sterling on the back of described above overshadowed news of better news on Brexit negotiations, resulted underlying growth across the business and in a more difficult backdrop for the market.
The most high profile underperformers were a range of global businesses, which The holding in Provident Financial delivered saw double digit falls.
The reality of rising negative returns over the period as James Goldstone interest rates and bond yields in the US, a whole, despite rallying sharply in the final Deputy Portfolio Manager with the expectation of more to follow, also quarter.
The company issued a profit impacted the valuation of these companies warning last August, downgrading which have a significant influence on the forecasts for its consumer credit division 31 May 2018 performance of the market.
from a profit of 115 million to a loss of between 80-120 million for the year.
The other dominant theme of the stock Additionally, the business announced that market throughout the past 12 months, its subsidiary Vanquis Bank was subject to, which has gone largely unnoticed, has and co-operating with, a Financial Conduct been the continued poor sentiment Authority FCA investigation into its towards UK domestic sectors.
This can repayment option plan ancillary product, be attributed to the combination of along with the resignation of its chief a pessimistic outlook towards the Brexit executive and the cancellation of its negotiations and the weak government dividend.
elected last June alongside an improvement in the global backdrop.
The In February of this year, earlier than result has been a collapse in valuations for expected by the market, Provident domestically focused companies, leaving Financial announced that it had reached them at multi year lows.
resolution in respect of the FCA investigation and was raising a total of Portfolio Strategy and Review 300 million to strengthen the balance The Companys net asset value, including sheet maintaining its investment grade reinvested dividends, returned 5.9% during status and that it will return to paying the period under review, compared with dividends this year before resuming a return of 1.2% total return by the aprogressive dividend policy in 2019.
09 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 10 Strategy Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Report For the year ended 31 March 2018 Capita also endured a challenging year.
that its multi channel offering allows it to Following the news of the bankruptcy of see the growth of on-line shopping as an fellow government outsourcer Carillion opportunity not a threat, while it can flex which is not held in the portfolio, the its leasehold property base to take best companys board revised its view of an advantage of future trends in apparel appropriate balance sheet structure for the retailing.
Meanwhile, its focus on business.
As a result, Capita announced the shareholder returns through special cancellation of its dividend and the outline dividends and further share buy backs of a fund raising, without the details underpinned earnings growth despite creating significant pressure on the shares.
a challenging retail back drop and The company also announced a major increased investment in logistics to improve re-structuring which I believe will create the efficiency of its online business.
a leaner, more focused, financially stronger and more efficient business.
Subsequent to In terms of portfolio activity during the the period end, Capita announced a 3 for period, new investments were made in real 2 rights issue raising 701 million which estate businesses Assura, British Land and has been well received by the stock market.
Secure Income REIT, along with Eddie Stobart Logistics, Royal Dutch Shell A and The list of small but significant positions Tesco.
As mentioned above, the holding in outlined above outweighed and Reynolds American was taken over by BAT, overshadowed strong performances from with the portfolio receiving a mix of BAT elsewhere in the portfolio.
The holdings in Centrica, amongst these again was Burford Capital Compass, Game Digital, London Stock as the litigation financier confirmed that Exchange, N Brown and SSE were sold.
full year profits had more than doubled from the previous year and announced Outlook a 20% increase in its dividend.
The The performance of the UK stock market outstanding success of this investment will remain heavily influenced in the near has affirmed my view of the value of term by the combination of two key non-correlated stocks within the portfolio, variables.
The movements in sterling as I seek to find diversified sources of relative to the US dollar being a reflection income growth.
The positive contributions of the Brexit negotiations in Brussels and from non-life insurers Hiscox and Beazley the continued vacillations in sentiment to were further confirmation of this strategy.
both the domestic economy and the fragile political scene.
Some of the portfolios Brexit hit stocks showed a significant turnaround in share The UK stock market is not expensively price performance, with the holding in valued on an historical basis as easyJet seeing its share price rise by over demonstrated by a price earnings multiple 50% over the period.
The company of circa 14 times for the current year.
This maintained its impressive growth record, represents a significant discount to other as it reported rising sales and revenues on major stock markets and is clearly the back of market share gains, with the indicative of the Brexit discount applied bankruptcies of Monarch, Air Berlin and indiscriminately to UK quoted companies.
Alitalia providing opportunities for the company in a highly competitive market.
There is substantial opportunity in a number of high quality companies global Sentiment towards the real estate sector leaders in their field which have been notably those exposed to the London office derated by the market as a mood of market was also negatively impacted in pessimism has overwhelmed the still-strong the aftermath of the 2016 Referendum.
As a prime Derwent London saw its share price example, the tobacco sectors focus on recover some lost ground, as it confirmed pricing power, cash conversion and product strong growth in earnings on the back of innovation should continue to provide a a record lettings year.
Tenant demand for reliable source of income, underpinning Derwents differentiated buildings in near longer term returns to shareholders, while prime locations remains robust, with Brexit the next generation products have the having no impact so far.
Derwent further potential to deliver a significant new pleased investors with a special dividend of revenue stream.
decline in the valuations given to this sector over recent months leaves the The woes of the UK retail sector have been shares looking increasingly attractive long well publicised.
However, Next confirmed term investments.
10 pp01-21 Strategy 01 06 2018 11:57 Page 11 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc However, perhaps the most significant area companies to encourage changes in of opportunity and the main focus of corporate strategy.
recent portfolio activity is within the sectors that offer direct exposure to the Recent market swings have favoured UK economy, notably financials, consumer momentum style investing, with an cyclicals and real estate.
Whilst there has ever-increasing disparity between valuation and fundamentals becoming clear.
It is been plenty of negative commentary about the UK economy, in particular regarding frustrating that in periods of extreme the spike in headline inflation post the EU momentum as we have experienced over referendum and the impact on real wage the past year fund performance will growth, the underlying economic trends predictably struggle to keep pace.
The have started to reverse.
Given the tightness current environment is supporting in the labour market, there is likely to be an premium valuations for growth or highly acceleration of real wages over the coming disruptive companies.
quarters, which in turn is likely to engender a greater sense of optimism than the My outlook and positioning has changed consensus entrenched pessimism.
very little over the past few months.
I am Structural challenges and worrying convinced that in a changing global environment the interests of investors are newsflow will continue to affect those domestic legacy businesses that lack best served by employing a well-tested a sustainable competitive advantage, investment process, which is based on however there are now compelling fundamental company analysis and opportunities for selective investment in a prudent approach to valuation.
I continue a number of well managed domestically to evaluate and to re-evaluate the holdings focused names, with substantial in the portfolio and to seek the best uncorrelated income and growth potential, opportunities to create a sustainable flow that have been neglected by the market.
It of dividend income for investors.
In times is noteworthy on that front that there has of extreme momentum and somewhat been a pick-up in corporate activity and irrational market pricing it is vital that take over proposals to UK companies.
For I remain rooted in the fundamental investment thesis which has served me well example, the widening discounts of the real estate sector have prompted approaches, historically and continues to do so.
including a recently unsuccessful bid proposal to Hammerson by French competitor Klepierre.
Activist investors have taken advantage of depressed share Mark Barnett prices to take stakes in large cap The Portfolio Manager The Deputy Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, James Goldstone is a fund manager at is based in Henley-on-Thames.
Based in Henley-on-Thames, Head of UK Equities at Invesco, James was appointed Deputy Manager specialising in UK equity income of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in investing.
Mark started his investment July 2016 and manages UK equity career in 1992 at Mercury Asset pension and pan-European equity Management and joined the Manager in mandates including Invesco Perpetual 1996.
He graduated in French and Select Trust plc and Keystone Politics from Reading University in 1992 Investment Trust plc.
Prior to joining and has passed the associate Invesco in August 2012, James was examinations of the Association for cohead of pan-European sales at Banco Investment Management and Research Espirito Santo in London.
James began AIMR now CFA Institute.
his career in pan-European equity sales at Credit Lyonnais in 2001 and went on, via HSBC and Dresdner Kleinwort, to specialise in UK equity sales.
James graduated with a First Class Honours Degree in French from Manchester University.
