Governance Directors Report Capital Structure addition, the Directors have been granted qualifying indemnity provisions by the Company which are currently At 31 August 2018, the Company had 186,938,409 fully in force.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover paid Ordinary shares of 20p each 2017: 190,741,556 with has been maintained throughout the year at the expense a further 28,365,944 Ordinary shares of 20p held in of the Company.
During the year to 31 August 2018, 18,208,444 Ordinary Shares were bought back and held in treasury.
The final conversion date for Dividends the holders of the 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.0p per 2018 CULS was 31 January 2018 which resulted in the Ordinary share 2017: 3.3p be paid on 21 December 2018 issue of 14,405,297 new Ordinary shares on 9 February to shareholders on the register on 23 November 2018.
Further details on the changes to the capital ex-dividend date is 22 November 2018. structure during the year ended 31 August 2018 are provided on page 71.
Subsequent to the period end a Management Agreement further 827,000 Ordinary shares have been purchased in The Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers the market for treasury.
Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, as its alternative investment fund manager.
The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends By way of group delegation agreements within the which are declared from time to time by an ordinary Standard Life Aberdeen Group the management of the resolution of the Company up to the amount Company's investment portfolio is delegated to Aberdeen recommended by the Board and to receive any interim Standard Investments Asia Limited and company dividends which the Directors may resolve the Company secretarial services and administrative services are should pay.
On a winding-up, after meeting the liabilities provided by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to Ordinary shareholders in proportion to their Details of the management agreement, including the shareholdings.
On a show of hands, every Ordinary notice period and fees paid to Aberdeen Group companies shareholder present in person, or by proxy, has one vote during the year ended 31 August 2018 are shown in note 4 and, on a poll, every Ordinary shareholder present in to the financial statements.
person has one vote for each share held and a proxy has one vote for every share represented.
Borrowings The Company has a one year multicurrency revolving loan There are no restrictions concerning the holding or facility of 50 million with Scotiabank Ireland Designated transfer of the Ordinary shares and there are no special Activity Company with a maturity date of 30 January 2019. rights attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not At the year end 25.5 million had been drawn down under aware of any agreements between shareholders which the facility.
may result in any restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting rights.
Corporate Governance In the event of a winding-up of the Company, the Ordinary The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms shares will rank behind any creditors or prior ranking part of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 29 to capital of the Company.
Directors Substantial Share Interests Biographies of the Directors of the Company are shown At 31 August 2018 the Company had been notified or was on pages 24 to 25.
There were no changes to the aware of the following substantial interests in the composition of the Board during the period.
James Will Ordinary shares: was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 October 2018.
Number of Ordinary % shares held Shareholder held Directors and Officers Liability Insurance City of London Investment 40,649,587 21.7 The Companys articles of association indemnify each of Management Lazard Asset Management 16,867,622 9.0 the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any Wells Capital Management 16,572,386 8.9 liabilities incurred by them as a Director of the Company Derbyshire County Council 12,300,000 6.6 in defending proceedings, or in connection with any 1607 Capital Partners 8,455,812 4.5 application to the Court in which relief is granted.
In Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 8,123,252 4.4 26 Annual Report 2018 Subsequent to the year end the Company was notified of their existing holdings, up to an aggregate nominal the following change: value representing 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of passing of this City of London Investment Management was interested resolution up to a maximum nominal amount of 1.86 in 41,250,704 Ordinary shares representing 22.1% of the million based on the Companys issued share capital as issued shares.
at the date of this Report.
As at the date of this Report, no other changes to the This authority will expire on 28 February 2020 or, if above interests had been notified to the Company.
earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general Auditor meeting.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditor in connection with the financial statements appear Pursuant to this power, Ordinary shares would only be on pages 37 and 40. issued for cash and treasury shares would only be sold for cash at a premium to the net asset value per share The Directors who held office at the date of approval of calculated after the deduction of prior charges at this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each market value.
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a granted by the above resolutions are necessary to Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it audit information and to establish that the Companys to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
auditor is aware of that information.
Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares iv Annual General Meeting Since the Companys last AGM the Company has Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General undertaken share buybacks, the details of which are Meeting of the Company to be held on 17 December 2018, set out on page 71.
Resolution 15, which will be the following resolutions will be proposed: proposed as a special resolution, will renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its Continuation Vote i own shares.
Shares so repurchased will be cancelled or Resolution 12, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if held in treasury.
In respect of the Companys Ordinary approved, allow the Company to continue as an shares which it buys back and does not immediately investment trust.
cancel but, instead, holds in treasury it may sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent : or ii Section 551 Authority to Allot Shares ultimately cancel the shares or any of them.
Resolution 13, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot No dividends will be paid on treasury shares, and no new securities up to 33.33% of the Companys issued voting rights attach to them.
Ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution up to a The maximum number of Ordinary shares which may maximum nominal amount of 12.4 million based on be purchased pursuant to this authority shall be the Companys issued share capital as at the date of 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as this Report.
Such authority will expire on 28 February at the date of the passing of the resolution 2020 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual approximately 27.9 million Ordinary shares.
The General Meeting of the Company unless previously minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p being an meeting.
amount equal to the nominal value of an Ordinary share.
The maximum price for an Ordinary share Limited Disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions iii again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount being Resolution 14, which is a special resolution, seeks to not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of give the Directors power, conditional on Resolution 13 the middle market quotations for the Companys being passed, to allot Ordinary shares and to sell Ordinary shares for the five business days immediately Ordinary shares held in treasury for cash, without first preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to the price of the last independent trade and the highest Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27 Governance Directors Report continued current independent bid relating to an Ordinary share Other Information on the trading venue where the purchase is carried The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of out.
Directors, amendments to the articles of association and powers to issue or buy back the Company's shares are This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to contained in the articles of association of the Company do so would enhance the net asset value per share and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no agreements and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
which the Company is party to that might affect its control or, if This authority will expire on 28 February 2020 following a takeover bid: and there are no agreements earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General between the Company and its Directors concerning Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, compensation for loss of office.
Other than the varied or extended by the Company in general management agreement with the Manager, further details meeting.
of which are set out on page 48, the Company is not aware of any contractual or other agreements which are Notice Period for General Meetings v essential to its business which ought to be disclosed in the Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a special Directors Report.
resolution, seeks the authority from shareholders for the Company to be able to hold general meetings By order of the Board, other than AGMs on 14 clear days' notice.
The Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited approval will be effective until the Company's next Secretary Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will Edinburgh also need to meet the requirements for electronic 1 November 2018 voting under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call Registered office: th a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Floor 7 40 Princes Street Recommendation Edinburgh EH2 2BY The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Company Registration Number: the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and SC106049 recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 63,882 Ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the existing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions or other emissions producing sources to report from its operations.
