Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Background Portfolio review terminal prompted the airport operator to forecast healthy profits.
Cement maker Anhui Conch advanced, Asian equities posted decent returns over a review year of thanks to rising cement prices that resulted from better two distinct halves.
Markets were buoyant in the first six industry discipline and supply side reforms.
months, boosted by steady global growth, upbeat earnings results and optimism over Chinese internet The portfolios performance was also lifted by technology stocks.
But volatility spiked subsequently, as investors stocks, which benefited from a favourable semiconductor grew nervous over aggressive interest rate hikes in the US cycle, though concerns over smartphone demand capped and further escalation in the US-China trade war.
Samsung Electronics delivered record earnings on fears of moderating growth further pressured stocks and higher memory chip prices, a segment where it remains the renminbi, prompting policymakers to boost liquidity the technology leader globally.
Supported by a solid and introduce fresh stimulus.
balance sheet and steady cash flows, Samsung has also made good progress in returning more money to Against this backdrop, the Trusts net asset value NAV shareholders over the past few years, including an total return increased by 2.3% over the year, slightly ahead increase in dividend payouts.
While profit taking and of the benchmark MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index reduced risk appetite have pressured Asian technology which gained 2.2% in sterling terms.
The share price rose names in recent months, we remain confident of the by 3.4% on a total return basis to 370p, and the discount longer term outlook of the sector.
We see new demand to NAV narrowed from 14.7% at the start of the period to from growing use of smartphones, autonomous driving, 12.2% as at 31 August 2018. internet connected homes and factories, as well as high performance computing.
The portfolios returns were driven mainly by our approach of investing in well run companies with sound Nevertheless, the portfolios larger exposure to cement fundamentals, resilient business models and healthy and real estate stocks weighed on performance.
These traits build resilience into your portfolio the Indian cement industry, which continues to suffer in volatile conditions.
from oversupply, subdued demand and rising energy costs, Indias Grasim Industries was the main laggard.
Your Companys holdings in China, especially those in the After rallying at the end of 2017 on the back of consumer discretionary and industrial sectors, were the restructuring efforts, it succumbed to profit taking amid portfolios key contributors.
We are mindful of the renewed concerns over muted cement prices.
We remain speculative nature of Chinas capital markets, the risk of confident of its prospects and expect demand to exceed heavy handed state intervention and generally weak capacity expansion soon.
Grasims cement business is also standards of corporate governance.
Nevertheless, we benefiting from higher infrastructure spending and have identified companies that met our stringent demand for affordable housing in the rural regions.
investment criteria, and we have been building the portfolios exposure to China gradually.
Notably, these In real estate, Singapore developer City Developments mainland holdings delivered attractive returns amid a CDL fell after the government intervened to cool the subdued broader market thus underlining the value of our resurgent domestic property market, with the severity of approach.
the measures catching many by surprise.
Myanmar focused group Yoma Strategic was pressured by a Two consumer companies stood out: China International property slowdown in the country, though its latest Travel Services CITS and Kweichow Moutai.
CITS, a earnings showed signs of stabilising.
We still like CDL for leading domestic land tour company and the mainland's its sizeable low cost land bank and its holding in the global largest duty free operator, benefited from growing Millennium & Copthorne hotel chain and find Yoma is well demand for domestic travel.
As the only nationwide placed to tap Myanmars longer term growth potential.
player, it is well positioned to take advantage of the growing affluence of the middle class.
Similarly, Kweichow Elsewhere, Hong Kong-based investment holding group Moutai, a distiller of high end spirits, delivered excellent Jardine Strategic faltered, mainly due to pullbacks in the results underpinned by robust sales growth.
It commands stock prices of Indonesian conglomerate Astra pricing power through a solid brand and is well placed to International, auto group Jardine Cycle & Carriage and capitalise on shifting consumer preferences towards retailer group Dairy Farm.
Astra, which the portfolio also premium products.
holds directly, similarly declined as its market share was pressured by increased competition.
Industrial names also contributed to returns.
Shanghai International Airport was a key contributor, as growth in rental income from its newly renovated passenger Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 13 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review continued Portfolio activity investment.
It enjoys steady growth in its malls and low financing costs as a state owned enterprise.
Market volatility during the year afforded opportunities for us to introduce attractively valued companies.
We Wuxi Biologics, meanwhile, is a contract development continued to build the portfolios exposure in China, manufacturing organisation CDMO with a significant particularly in companies that are benefiting from model in the biologics outsourcing market.
It is the only emerging technology and growing domestic consumption CDMO that offers end to end service, from drug discovery trends.
and development all the way to commercial manufacturing of biological drugs.
This means that it owns Hong Kong-listed Tencent Holdings is one such company the intellectual property and has high technical knowhow.
with high quality growth potential.
The Chinese internet With R&D at the drug discovery stage, it has a higher giant has succeeded in diversifying its products, creating a chance of retaining customers through the lifecycle of a powerful, interlocking suite of services that has drug.
entrenched itself in the everyday lives of Chinese consumers, who use Tencents products to make Other recent additions to the portfolio include Thai mall electronic payments, read the news and stay in touch with developer Central Pattana, which has a good track record family and friends.
The companys growing product shelf of executing its strategic goals and could grow margins deepens this relationship with end users and entices them from increasing rentals, and Vietnamese lender Vietnam to pay for value added services, which will drive future Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank earnings growth.
Its shares have fallen in recent months, Techcombank, which is led by internationally following a country wide freeze on approvals for new experienced management that is focused on profitability online games that affected its mobile version of a rather than market share.
However, Tencents management is confident that its game would receive approval eventually.
Against these, we divested our positions in Singapore Tighter control over the industry will strengthen the defence group ST Engineering, as well as Swire Pacific and positions of big players such as Tencent.
MTR Corporation in Hong Kong, after their share prices rallied.
We also took advantage of pre-election liquidity in To capture opportunities within the Chinese consumption the Malaysian market to exit financial group CIMB and theme, we introduced Autohome, the dominant online investment holding company Batu Kawan.
hub for car transactions on the mainland, and hospitality chain Huazhu Hotels Group.
Autohome has a classifieds Outlook advertising business that draws those interested in buying and selling cars, which is complemented by its Given prevailing trade tensions, investor sentiment has comprehensive content that attracts high quality user turned more wary, and politics and policy will likely traffic.
Meanwhile, Huazhus portfolio of almost 4,000 continue to hold sway over Asian markets.
Many hotels serves as a proxy for tourism growth.
It operates companies are shelving investment plans, which could with an asset light franchise model, receiving revenues in dampen near term economic growth in the region.
There the form of fees and booking commissions.
Its are also other market specific issues that could present managements track record and its partnership with Accor challenges to the portfolios underlying holdings.
In India should drive further margin improvements.
and Indonesia, political risk may feature more prominently given upcoming elections.
Beijings delicate tightrope We also initiated positions in three other mainland between reducing risks in the financial system and companies: Ping An Insurance, China Resources Land, sustaining growth could have wide reaching implications.
Ping An is a Chinese financial More broadly, central banks in the region also have to conglomerate with one of the best life insurance grapple with defending their currencies and maintaining franchises domestically.
It has adroitly tapped technology price stability, while contending with rising commodity to build a robust financial supermarket and is well prices, tightening US monetary policy and a strengthening positioned in a structurally growing segment.
competent management has also put in place adequate risk management processes that mitigate the complexity However, many Asian economies are in better shape, with of the group.
healthy external balances and foreign currency reserves.
Corporate fundamentals remain resilient too.
Despite China Resources Land is a Hong Kong-listed Chinese more cautious forecasts, many of your Companys developer with superior profitability, substantial land holdings are still delivering fair earnings growth.
The bank, as well as a good mix of property development and portfolio, given its exposure to largely domestic companies with local revenues and costs, is also relatively 14 Annual Report 2018 insulated from the trade war between the US and its major trading partners.
Many holdings stand to benefit from improving consumer sentiment in both China and the rest of the region.
Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited 1 November 2018 on behalf of Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited.
Both companies are subsidiaries of Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
