Governanc Governance e Your Board of Directors Your Board of Directors Allan McKenzie Independent Chairman Length of service: 12 years, appointed on 1 September 2006 Experience: Former chief operating officer and a managing director of BlackRock International Limited prior to his retirement in 2006.
Between 1972 and 1991 he was actively involved in fund management, specialising in Asian equity markets.
Since 1991 his role was in marketing and client relationship management at both Scottish Widows Investment Management and BlackRock International Limited.
Formerly he was chairman of Impax Asian Environmental Markets plc, director of BlackRock Global Series plc and chairman and director of the Thailand International Fund Limited.
Kathryn Langridge Length of service: 6 years, appointed on 29 October 2012 Experience: Over 30 years experience in the investment industry.
She is currently head of global emerging markets equity at Manulife.
She was previously fund management director for global emerging equities at Jupiter Asset Management and head of the global emerging markets team at Lloyd George Management, where she was responsible for developing investment strategy and managing equity portfolios across a range of emerging markets.
She also worked at INVESCO Perpetual for 17 years where her roles included head of Asian investments and head of international equity products.
She began her career in Asia with Jardine Fleming.
Charles Ricketts Length of service: 2 years, appointed on 19 April 2016 Experience: Over 30 years experience within the investment funds arena.
Until 2014 he was the head of investment funds at Cenkos Securities, providing equity capital markets services to the fund management industry and to investment trust companies.
He founded Crix Capital, a consultancy, enterprise philanthropy and venture funding business.
He was previously a managing director of UBS Investment Bank and head of investment funds.
He began his investment career as an investment director of Johnson Fry and head of marketing and investment product development at Gartmore Investment Management.
He is a nonexecutive director of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC.
Peter Maynard Length of service: 7 years, appointed on 12 October 2011 Experience: Qualified as a solicitor and was Group Legal Director at Prudential plc from 1998 to 2009 and Company Secretary from July 1999.
Prior to that he was with HSBC for 14 years during which time he was variously a director of HSBC Investment Bank, President and Chief Executive Officer of James Capel Inc in New York and finally Deputy Group Legal Adviser.
He is a former chairman of the GC100 and was a supervisory board member of the London Business School Centre for Corporate Governance.
He is a non-executive director of Brunner Investment Trust plc.
24 Annual Report 2018 Iain McLaren Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chairman Length of service: 8 years, appointed on 6 September 2010 Experience: A chartered accountant and was a partner at KPMG for 27 years, including Senior Partner in Scotland from 1999 to 2004, retiring from the firm in 2008.
He is the chairman of F&C UK High Income Trust Plc and a non-executive director of Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Plc, Ecofin Global Utilities and Infrastructure Trust plc and JadeStoneEnergy Limited.
He is a former President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
James Will Length of service: Appointed on 1 October 2018 Experience: Former Chairman of law firm Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP where he was a senior corporate partner, heading its financial sector practice.
He has experience of working with companies in a wide range of industry sectors including financial services, technology, energy and life sciences.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc and Audit Committee chairman of Herald Investment Trust plc.
