qxp 01 06 2018 12:01 Page 24 Governance The Directors Glen Suarez Victoria Hastings Sir Nigel Wicks Glen Suarez was Victoria Hastings Sir Nigel Wicks, appointed to the was appointed to GCB, CVO, CBE Board on 24 May the Board on was appointed to 2013 and became 23 May 2013.
She the Board on Chairman on has over 25 years 24 May 2005 and 22 November experience in the is the Senior 2017.
Glen is investment Independent Chairman of management Director.
After Knight Vinke Asset industry and is working for The Management.
Prior a non-executive British Petroleum to joining Knight Vinke, he was a Partner director of Impax Environmental Markets Company, Sir Nigel joined HM Treasury in Soditic Limited and before that he was plc and both JPMorgan Asset in 1968.
He worked for Prime Ministers Head of European Utilities at Morgan Management UK Ltd and JPMorgan Harold Wilson, James Callaghan and Stanley.
He is a specialist in the banking Asset Management International Ltd. Margaret Thatcher.
He was the UKs and energy sectors, and is a Fellow of Her roles have included investment Executive Director at the International the Institute of Chartered Accountants in director at JO Hambro Capital Monetary Fund and World Bank, the England and Wales, Royal Society of Management: chief investment officer, Prime Ministers representative Arts and a member of the Capital private clients at Merrill Lynch Sherpa for the Economic Summits of Markets Advisory Committee.
Investment Managers London : a fund the Group of Seven Industrialised manager in the Merrill Lynch European Nations and he was the Treasurys Equity team: non-executive director of Second Permanent Secretary Charter European Trust and Henderson responsible for international financial Global Trust plc.
She is also a trustee of matters.
He was past Chair of the Moorfields Eye Charity.
Committee on Standards in Public Life and formerly the Chairman of Euroclear plc, The British Bankers Association and a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Gordon McQueen Maxwell Ward Services Commission.
Gordon McQueen Maxwell Ward was was appointed to appointed to the the Board on Board on 8 August 31 May 2011 and 2011.
Mr Ward is Chairman of the joined Baillie Audit Committee.
Gifford in 1971 He is a Chartered becoming a Accountant and partner in the firm a Fellow of the in 1975 and was Chartered Institute head of the UK of Bankers of Scotland.
He is a former Equity Department from 1981 until his Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and retirement in April 2000.
He was also until 2003, he was an Executive Director a member of the firms Management and of HBOS plc, where his main role was Investment Policy Committees and Chief Executive, Treasury.
He is a former Chairman of Baillie Gifford Overseas.
non-executive director and audit From 1989 until 2000 he was manager committee Chairman of Scottish of Scottish Mortgage and Trust plc.
Mortgage Investment Trust plc, Following his retirement from Baillie Shaftesbury plc and JPMorgan Midcap Gifford, he floated The Independent Investment Trust Plc.
Investment Trust plc and has been its managing director since.
He is a former non-executive director of Aegon UK plc and Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
All Directors are non-executive and considered independent.
All Directors are members of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit Committee 24
