Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Business Model Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and Standard Life plc on 14 August 2017.
The business model of the Company is to operate as an investment trust for UK capital gains tax purposes in line Achieving the Investment Policy and Objective with its investment objective.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs for the The Directors are responsible for determining the year ended 31 August 2018 so as to enable it to comply investment policy and the investment objective of the with the relevant eligibility conditions for investment trust Company.
Day-to-day management of the Companys status as defined by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax assets has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager follows a bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies Investment Policy through direct contact by its fund managers.
Stock The Companys assets are invested in a diversified selection is the major source of added value.
No stock is portfolio of securities in quoted companies spread across bought without the Investment Manager having first met management.
The Investment Manager evaluates a a range of industries and economies in the Asia Pacific companys worth in two stages: quality then price.
Quality region, excluding Japan and Australasia.
The shares that is defined by reference to management, business focus, make up the portfolio are selected from companies that the balance sheet and corporate governance.
Price is have proven management and whose shares are evaluated by reference to key financial ratios, the market, considered to be attractively priced.
The Company invests the peer group and business prospects.
Stock selection is in a diversified range of sectors and countries.
key in constructing a diversified portfolio of companies.
Investments are not limited as to market capitalisation, The Investment Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% sector or country weightings within the region.
of the Companys gross assets in any single stock, calculated at the time an investment is made.
The Companys policy is to invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other listed investment companies A detailed description of the investment process and risk including listed investment trusts.
controls employed by the Investment Manager is disclosed on page 64.
The Company complies with Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio by Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 and does not country and by sector is disclosed on pages 17 to 22, invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one including a description of the ten largest investments, the company.
full investment portfolio by value and sector geographical analysis.
At 31 August 2018, the Companys portfolio When appropriate the Company will utilise gearing to maximise long-term returns, subject to a maximum consisted of 72 holdings.
gearing level of 20% of net assets imposed by the Board.
Gearing is used to leverage the Companys portfolio in The Company does not currently utilise derivatives but order to enhance returns when this is considered keeps this under review.
At 31 August 2018, the Companys net gearing was 2.2%.
Company Benchmark Principal Risks and Uncertainties MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index sterling adjusted.
There are a number of risks which, if realised, could have a Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM material adverse effect on the Company and its financial position, performance and prospects.
The Board has The AIFM is Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML or identified and undertaken a robust review of the principal the Manager which is authorised and regulated by the risks and uncertainties facing the Company in the table Financial Conduct Authority.
opposite and the appropriate mitigating action.
The principal risks associated with an investment in the The Company's portfolio is managed on a day-to-day basis Companys shares are published monthly on the by Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited ASI Companys factsheet or they can be found in the preAsia or the Investment Manager by way of a delegation investment disclosure document published by the agreement.
ASI Asia changed its name from Aberdeen Manager, both of which are on the Companys website.
Asset Management Asia Limited on 3 September 2018.
ASI Further details on the internal control environment can be Asia and AFML are both wholly owned subsidiaries of found in the Statement of Corporate Governance.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc, formed by the merger of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7
