Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in operations and investment trust industry matters.
All which any of the Directors was materially interested.
The Directors are entitled to receive appropriate and relevant Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect training.
There is a procedure for a Director to take interests of each Director and has concluded that there independent professional advice, if necessary, at the were no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Companys expense.
Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
The Board adopts a zero-tolerance approach to Remuneration Committee bribery and corruption and has implemented appropriate The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Iain procedures designed to prevent bribery.
McLaren and Allan McKenzie, is responsible for determining the level of Directors fees, having taken It it is the Companys policy to conduct all of its business in external advice.
The terms of reference are available on an honest and ethical manner.
The Board takes a zerorequest and on the Companys website.
Further tolerance approach to facilitation of tax evasion, whether information may be found in the Directors Remuneration under UK law or under the law of any foreign country.
Performance Evaluation Internal Control and Risk Management An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of of the operation of the Board and its Committees, was internal control and has reviewed the effectiveness of the undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance Companys risk management and internal control systems.
assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing and robust The Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors process for identifying, evaluating and managing the other commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each significant risks faced by the Company which include Directors performance continues to be effective, and that financial, operational, compliance and reputational risks.
each remains fully committed to the Company.
Under the Management Agreement, the management of Succession Planning the Companys assets has been delegated to the Manager within overall guidelines.
Risks are identified and In line with the Companys strong commitment to its documented through a risk management framework by corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly each function within the Managers activities.
The internal reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the control systems operated by the Manager are monitored correct mix of relevant skills, diversity and experience for and supported by an internal audit function which the effective conduct of the Companys business to undertakes periodic examination of business processes, complement the existing composition of the Board whilst including compliance with the terms of the management having due regard for the benefits of diversity, including agreement, and ensures that recommendations to gender, on the Board.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and timetables are New Board appointments are identified against the agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The requirements of the Companys business and the need to implementation of any remedial action required is have a balanced Board and are routinely facilitated by an monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
external recruitment firm to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
Following a review of its This process has been in place for the year under review composition and, taking into account, succession plans, and up to the date of approval of this annual report and the Board appointed an independent external search accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords consultant, Fletcher Jones, to identify potential candidates with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on for the Board which resulted in the appointment of Mr Will Internal Controls.
In addition, the Board has adopted its own risk matrix The Board has implemented the provisions of the UK Code which identifies the key risks for the Company and covers whereby all Directors of the Company will stand for restrategy, investment management, operations, regulatory election on an annual basis.
The Board has reviewed the and financial obligations and third party service providers.
skills and experience of each Director, and supports their A monitoring system is undertaken whereby the controls re-election.
to mitigate these risks, and the impact of the residual risks, are assessed on a regular basis.
Details of the New Directors are given appropriate induction from the principal risks faced by the Company are provided in Manager covering legal responsibilities, the Managers Overview of Strategy on pages 8 to 9.
