STRATEGIC REPORT Financial review In addition to the bank revolving credit Balance sheet Corporate and convertible bonds facilities we have a 50 million term As at 30 September 2018 we had 1,125 Our balance sheet remains strong with a loan facility, which was undrawn as at million 2017: 1,125 million of secured total net asset value of 1.55 billion 2017: 30 September 2018, available for drawing corporate bonds outstanding which are 1.50 billion, primarily represented by 3.62 until December 2018 with repayment of any non-amortising, secured against ring-fenced billion 2017: 3.63 billion of property assets amount drawn due by July 2020.
The facility portfolios of properties and attracting fixed offset by net debt of 2.0 billion 2017: was established to provide additional funds, interest rates averaging approximately 6.4% 2.1 billion.
The property asset valuation if required, for the settlement of the 100.5 2017: 6.4%.
In the near-term we have reflects the valuation undertaken as at million corporate bonds due in December 100.5 million of corporate bonds falling due 30 September 2018.
For the first year following utilisation which we expect to repay at maturity on estate is valued by Colliers International and it will attract an interest rate of 3.1%-3.3% 6 December 2018 from available resources the assets that secure the EIG corporate above LIBOR depending on our compliance including our bank facilities and bank bonds are valued by GVA Grimley with the with certain undertakings regarding energy term loan.
balance of the estate valued internally.
basis of the valuation is consistent with In addition to the secured corporate bonds the prior year with 95% 2017: 95% of the we now have a 150 million bond that was Securitised notes property portfolio valued by independent issued on 25 September 2018.
This bond is During the year we used operational cash external valuers.
The result of this years not secured over properties, has an interest generated from the business to repay, in valuation was no net movement in the total rate payable of 7.5% and a maturity date accordance with scheduled amortisation, value of the estate 2017: 0.2% increase.
The bond contains a 81 million 2017: 77 million of the Unique covenant package restricting certain aspects A3 and A4 securitised notes.
In addition we The share price at 30 September 2018 of of our business that is customary for a bond purchased and cancelled 5 million 2017: 1.66 2017: 1.38, which equates to an of its type.
In general, the covenants are nil of the Unique securitised notes in the equity value of 771 million 2017: 661 incurrence-based and therefore apply when open market, which left 0.9 billion 2017: million, compares to a net asset value per certain corporate activities occur, such as 1.0 billion outstanding at 30 September share of 3.34 2017: 3.13.
We believe that asset disposals.
The notes amortise over a period to the continued successful execution of our relation to disposals, the covenant package 2032 and attract interest rates of between strategic plan, which aims to optimise the allows for up to 20% of the proceeds from 5.7% and 7.4%.
As at 30 September 2018 use and value of our asset portfolio, should the disposal of non-tied pubs to be released the Group was 75 million 2017: 76 continue to reduce this value differential.
million ahead of the amortisation schedule of the Unique A3 and A4 securitised notes Capital structure The proceeds of the bond issuance have, through early repayment and market We have a long-term, secure, flexible and in part, been used to fund a tender offer to purchases.
We expect to make amortisation tax-efficient financing structure comprising repay the unsecured seven year convertible payments of 84 million in 2019 and 89 bank borrowings, securitised notes and bonds that were issued in September million in 2020, subject to any further corporate bonds.
We are a cash generative 2013 for gross proceeds of 97 million.
market purchases or repayments arising business and have, over the past few years, The tender offer was at a purchase price of from monetisation of non-tied pubs.
used excess cash flows to reduce debt and 107% together with accrued interest and fund share buybacks.
During the year we was accepted by 95.4 million of the bonds On 6 July 2018 the holders of the Unique A3 have used cash generated by the business outstanding, with the balance of 1.6 million and A4 securitised notes voted in favour of to meet the scheduled amortisation of being subsequently redeemed at their proposals to amend the permitted disposals securitised notes leaving total net debt at principal amount after the year end.
clause within the Unique securitisation 2.0 billion 2017: 2.1 billion.
to allow the Group greater flexibility in Bank borrowings disposing of non-tied pubs out of the As at 30 September 2018 our drawn bank Unique estate so long as the proceeds from borrowings were 15 million and net of such disposals are used to repay Unique company cash were 12 million net cash securitised notes in class order with the 2017: 29 million net debt.
On 14 August applicable redemption premium.
2018, in agreement with our bank group, With these amendments in place, Total net we increased the size of our bank revolving we believe the capital structure can credit facilities from 140 million to 150 asset value fully accommodate the delivery of any million and extended the availability of the monetisation of parts of our non-tied pub facilities from August 2020 to August 2022 estate and we will allocate proceeds from on substantially the same commercial 1.55bn such monetisation to the benefit of all terms including, without limitation, any 2017: 1.50bn stakeholders.
drawn portion of the facility continuing to bear interest at a rate per annum of LIBOR N R Smith plus 3%.
Chief Financial Officer 19 November 2018 24 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 25 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility People Directors Employees Total 827 Male We continue to be committed to the principle of corporate social responsibility and believe that it should be embedded in everything we do.
549 Female As the strategic plan we announced in 2015 has become business as usual Senior managers 542 we have used this opportunity to engage with our employees to test our CSR 812 framework and our key drivers of community, people, publicans, responsible retailing and environment.
The output is being refined through the coming year so that we can better bring to life the positive impact our people and our pubs can have on their local communities and the wider environment.
Community With over 4,400 trading pubs throughout sponsoring local community programmes Supporting industry trade bodies Employee engagement Diversity and inclusion Developing our people England and Wales, our pubs, publicans and providing funding for schemes such as The Group recognises the importance We are committed to equal opportunities All support team new starters receive a and associations and managers operate at the heart of the Pub is the Hub, who support opportunities of workforce policies and practices and and the creation of an entirely nonGroup induction, followed by department We actively contribute to trade debates communities they serve, employing local for rural pubs and publicans to diversify their engages with our people through regular discriminatory working environment and specific inductions, initial training and onand support industry trade bodies and people, providing a diverse range of goods, business.
quarterly briefing sessions, the Group our recruitment policy and guidance, the-job coaching as required.
We encourage associations including the British Beer services and facilities to local residents, intranet, Group briefing calls and annual underpinned by our vision and values, and support our employees to develop and Pub Association BBPA the British During a bumper summer, we saw businesses and visitors and making a conferences.
operates to ensure that all employees a long-term career with us.
46% of our Institute of Innkeeping BII, the Federation communities across the country come valuable contribution to the local economy.
are recruited, developed, promoted and support team employees have been with us of Licensed Victuallers Associations together in our pubs to celebrate the World Annually we undertake an employee We support these pubs to thrive in their remunerated on the basis of their skills for over five years and 33% have over ten FLVA, UK Hospitality and PubAid.
We Cup and the Royal Wedding.
engagement survey to better understand communities through initiatives such as and job suitability.
The Group is dedicated years experience.
support Drinkaware, the independent UK how our employees feel about all aspects to undertaking all its business operations wide alcohol education charity working in of their role and the Group.
Year on year Internal progression is something we in a way which respects individual human partnership to help reduce alcohol related since we commenced this survey we have are proud to champion.
During 2018, rights, diversity and equality, and treats harm by helping people make better choices had a high response rate, with over 93% of sponsored by the Board, we embarked individuals with dignity and allows freedom about their drinking.
We also work with the employees participating in the survey in the on a year long exercise of performance of association.
Licensed Trade Charity who assist pub, bar year.
In 2018 our overall engagement score appraisal, evaluations, 360 feedback and brewery people who are in need of help was 81%.
The output from the survey is We give full consideration to applications and succession planning throughout the or facing a crisis with practical, emotional used to inform future engagement and drive for employment from disabled persons in executive talent across all the Group and financial support.
light of aptitude and abilities.
The output from that has to retain the employment of, and arrange enabled individuals to revisit personal Charity In the coming year Jane Bednall, a nonsuitable retraining for, any employee who development plans and for us to support The Group supports the charitable activities executive director, will be working with becomes disabled during their employment them in bespoke training and coaching undertaken by its employees and this our HR team on workforce policies and as far as possible.
opportunities to achieve their potential.
support is coordinated by its charity practices so that our healthy culture and committee.
positive engagement with the workforce is We recognise that a better work-life We are proud to continue to hold the Gold maintained.
balance can improve team members accreditation by Investors in People.
Since 2015 our partnership with The Royal motivation, performance and productivity, British Legion has enabled us to sell Poppy Reward and recognition and reduce stress.
Driven by output from Beer in the lead up to Remembrance Day.
the engagement survey, we have this year The Group offers a range of flexible benefits This year we raised over 22,000 through to employees, which allows them to tailor rewritten and promoted our flexible working Poppy Beer where 20p from every pint sold policy and we welcome requests that meet their overall reward to suit their particular was donated.
Over 80% of our support the needs and objectives of both the Group and the employee.
team make use of one or more of these In addition to centrally organised charitable benefits.
The Group also encourages work, our pubs, both leased and tenanted employee ownership of Company shares and managed, run and coordinate their own through a Save as You Earn SAYE scheme local charity events, which helps to cement and a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
them at the heart of their communities and contribute to the 100 million that pubs We regularly benchmark salaries and rates across the country raise each year.
of pay and benefits as part of our aim to recruit and retain great people to operate our businesses and to support reduction in staff turnover and improve productivity.
26 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
