STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model We have a flexible business model optimised to leverage market opportunities OUR ASSETS AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE ENABLE OUR OPERATING MODELS PROVIDE OUR OFFER CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS We have operational flexibility Each of our properties are matched We have over 4,400 through various trading models to to their optimum retail proposition properties geographically facilitate asset value optimisation maximising the best mix of revenue spread across the UK The operating models have Drink: incorporating drinks sold to Our total property assets been designed to allow our pubs publicans for on-sale and directly to are valued at 3.6 billion Our shareholders are a key Underlying EPS and publicans to thrive within customers in our managed segment source of efficient capital Supported by our efficient growth of 3% their communities enabling our business model Rent: largest leased and tenanted capital structure Net asset value of pub company in the UK 3.34 per share KEY DIFFERENTIATORS: COMMUNITIES KEY DIFFERENTIATORS: 95% freehold Focused on maximising value High quality from each property Significant buying power Wet-led model Returns-based capital Buying power and long-term supply investment programme Our pubs are at the heart 15 million adults visit arrangements provide beneficial of community life, providing pubs weekly access to the drinks market a diverse range of goods, services and facilities making High proportion of prime and Read more about: a valuable contribution to the secondary locations Our strategy page 10 local economy Financial review page 22 Balance sheet page 85 PUBLICANS KEY DIFFERENTIATORS: Read more about: Our market page 6 Flexibility to respond to a Our strategy page 10 changing environment Income statement page 84 Provides the optionality with which to optimise returns and unlock the AND SUPPORT OUR PEOPLE embedded value Attracting the best publicans We have invested Efficient portfolio manager who run successful over 300 million We partner with those who are businesses allows our in our pubs over the passionate about pubs keeping shared business model to grow last five years success at the heart of our business Read more about: At a glance page 2 EMPLOYEES KEY DIFFERENTIATORS: Our strategy page 10 Exceptional levels of service and support Flexibility in more challenging times Read more about: Our employees and the We directly employ Our market page 6 support they provide are over 1,800 people, but Our strategy page 10 key to attracting the best in turn, our 4,400 pubs Chief Executives review page 16 publicans and running employ many more the best managed pubs.
thousands of people Engaged and motivated staff across the country.
are essential to our business 8 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Our overall strategic objective is to optimise value creation for every asset in our portfolio to drive returns to shareholders Our capital allocation framework uses a returns-based approach to evaluate the best use of Assets and capital structure People cash to create a sustainable capital structure and regular returns to shareholders, balancing We have a high quality and well invested People are at the heart of our business and pivotal to our success.
Our people strategy sets out our the following strategic objectives: asset portfolio with a total property asset ambition and aspirations for our teams and how we aim to support and develop our workforce to value of 3.6 billion and an efficient and deliver the very best service possiblefor our publicans and customers.
Our key people priorities are: 1 Reduce debt improving loan to value LTV of 56%.
Leverage 7.1x THE DOING IN A GREAT WHERE AND WE ARE To strengthen the balance sheet through deleverage, RIGHT THE RIGHT PLACE PERFORMANCE ORGANISED Net asset value leading to greater free cash flow to invest in our assets We have strong free cash flows driven by 3.34 PEOPLE THINGS TO WORK COUNTS TO WIN per share and make returns to shareholders resulting in a prudent, the momentum of like-for-like sales and Recruitment Performance, Culture Performance Organisational sustainable balance sheet income growth, combined with disposal development & reward design proceeds as we continue to dispose of & training Capital spend 2 Invest in our assets underperforming, overlapping and ready to The employer Lead, inspire A supportive Achievement is The right on growth driving 60% We aim to reinvest our disposal proceeds in our estate sell assets, delivering excess cash flow for of choice within and develop environment recognised infrastructure schemes to support like-for-like growth, enhance returns and our market our people to and resources us to utilise to enable investment, reduce Our values Performance is Return on investment perform to their optimise value debt and return value to shareholders.
22% Increase the are lived and rewarded potential ROI quality of our breathed people Retain the best Underpinning our strategic evolution, our 3 Returns to shareholders capital strategy aims to utilise excess cash Whilst the share price is at a significant discount to Further we appreciate that publicans and operators are a critical element of our strategy and to optimise returns.
Share buybacks 20m net asset value per share, look to buy back shares directly influence the success of each of our assets.
We offer investment and support to enable our as an efficient use of cash that is accretive to publicans to grow their businesses and continually reassess our offer to ensure that both the nature shareholder value of our contractual agreements and the range of support we provide is competitive and impactful.
Our traditional leased and tenanted pub business model has successfully transformed into a multi-model operation providing a dynamic response to market and regulatory developments.
The transition of assets between operating models is now normal operational execution.
BUILD OPERATING MODELS EXECUTE NEAR-TERM STRATEGY MONETISE OPTIMISE RETURNS FROM EACH ASSET DRIVING RETURNS DRIVING GROWTH DELIVERING EIPP remains our core business.
We pride ourselves on our Focusing on our core strength of wet-led pubs and investing Whilst we expect the size of our estate to gradually reduce, Like-for-like net income ability to attract and retain new and experienced publicans to where returns are more certain.
Utilising our own expertise we will endeavour to continually improve its quality.
Average net income per pub run our pubs.
and learnings from sharing best practice in our managed operations, we continually reassess our offer.
Embracing the Pubs Code and MRO option we are focused on optimising the profile of tenancy and lease agreements.
EIMO represents our 100% owned and operated managed We are continuing to work across the business to identify We expect the estate to continue to grow in number and Number of managed sites pubs which are traded in two unbranded formats.
The Craft appropriate conversion opportunities whilst constantly deliver like-for-like sales growth as experienced learnings are Union format now has national coverage as a leading scale learning from experiences in the pubs already converted and put to use.
We aim to grow value through good investment Like-for-like sales operator of community pubs, with one clear retail offer that sharing those learnings to improve conversion returns and decisions, experience and asset optimisation.
is drinks-led with quality beers, at affordable prices, served improve operating efficiencies across both Bermondsey Pub Pub level EBITDA in local, well-invested facilities.
The Bermondsey format also Company and Craft Union.
Free cash flow operates nationally but has a more flexible retail offering, which can incorporate an element of food, and is increasingly tailored to reflect a proven pre-existing retail offer and consumer occasion.
Net asset value Earnings per share Pubs with significant upside potential needing a specialist Combining our good pipeline of sites alongside the buying We have 11 partners and plan to selectively grow the number Number of managed sites of partners with whom we are operating ensuring we maintain offering and operator in order to achieve optimum value are power and support we can provide with the specialist retail taken into EIMI where we partner with some of the best capabilities of our partners enables us to operate exceptional a broad mix of operating styles and geographical coverage.
Our Like-for-like sales primary focus is to grow the scale of our existing partners whilst operators in the industry.
Learnings from our expert partners are shared across the business.
enhancing the quality of trading operations with the strategic Pub level EBITDA intention of monetising their value at the appropriate time.
EICP tenants include household names as well as We are focused on quality not quantity, working alongside We will explore options including a full or partial sale of the Number of Commercial independent public houses and restaurant operators.
They other business units in evaluating opportunities to optimise Commercial Properties business in order to monetise the Properties sites have good covenant strength and are keen to access our value by bringing assets into our commercial property portfolio, optimised asset value at the appropriate time.
Read more in: quality portfolio on commercial terms.
whilst retaining the flexibility to realise value.
Average net income Key performance indicators on pages 14 and 15 per property 10 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
