RISKS, VIABILITY AND GOING CONCERN MANAGING OUR RISKS EFFECTIVELY The Group has risk management and internal control processes to identify, assess and manage the risks likely to affect the achievement of its corporate objectives and business performance.
The risk management process Viability statement The risk management process is co-ordinated by the Groups The Board considers the longer-term viability of the Group as risk team.
The principal elements of the process are: part of its regular monitoring and review of risk management internal control systems, as described on page 54.
In addition Identification to the risk mitigation plans, our business model is structured Risks are identified through a variety of sources both so that the Group is not reliant on one particular group of external, to ensure that developing risk themes are customers or geography, and has a very diverse customer considered, and from within the Group, including senior, base across our several geographies.
Our capital position is regional and country management teams.
The focus of the supported by regular reviews of the Groups funding facilities risk identification is on those risks which, if they occurred, and banking covenants headroom, through the Boards would have a material quantitative or reputation impact Treasury Committee.
The Groups financial position, in on the Group.
particular cash flow, is also reviewed through monthly Assessment management accounts and regular updates to the Board from Management identifies the controls for each risk and assesses the Group Finance Director and CEO.
Details of the Groups using consistent measures the impact and likelihood of the sources of finance are outlined on page 116 with the earliest risk occurring taking into account the effects of the existing facility expiring being the Groups private placement loan controls the net risk.
This assessment is compared with the notes of $100 million in June 2020.
Groups risk appetite to determine whether further mitigating The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its actions are required.
This process is supplemented by an strategic and financial planning process.
This includes the annual risk and controls assessment, which all operating preparation of a detailed annual budget and a longer-term locations and the Group-wide functions are required strategic plan, updated annually, which are reviewed and to complete.
In prior years the strategic plan Ownership covered three years, with the first year being the budget, The Groups principal risks are owned by the Groups Senior and this year this has been extended out a further two Management Team with specific mitigating actions years by a high level extrapolation.
Progress against budget, controls owned by individual members of the team.
The together with regular forecast updates, is reviewed monthly Senior Management Team collectively reviews the risk by both the Senior Management Team and the Board.
register, the controls and mitigating actions at specific Group risk review meetings held periodically throughout the year.
Assessment period In their assessment of viability, the Directors have reviewed The Board theassessment period and have determined that a three-year The Board confirms it has undertaken a robust review of the period to 31 March 2021 continues to be the most appropriate.
Groups principal risks including those that could threaten Therobustness of the strategic plan is significantly higher its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity in the first three years.
The Group has few contracts with and assessed them against the Groups risk appetite.
For either customers or suppliers extending beyond three years a number of the principal risks management will, as part of and, in the main, contracts are for one year or less.
The ongoing activities, update the Board on these risks and their business operates with a minimal forward order book, generally management.
This allows the Board to determine whether taking orders and shipping them on the same day.
In addition, the actions taken by management are sufficient.
as more business moves online and we become more agile, Risk appetite speed of change increases and so visibility is relatively short In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, term.
Of our long-term obligations, the UK pension plan is the the Board defined its risk appetite across three risk categories: largest and its triennial funding valuation forms the basis of strategic, operating and regulatory compliance.
These three our agreeing its funding with the trustee.
categories use both quantitative and qualitative criteria.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Board again reviewed its risk appetite across the three categories with no significant changes being made.
34 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Assessment of viability The strategic plan reflects the Directors best estimate of the Each of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties on pages future prospects of the Group.
Therefore, in order to assess 36 and 37 has a potential impact on the Groups viability the viability of the Group, the scenarios were modelled by and so the Directors determined an appropriately severe but overlaying them onto the plan to quantify the potential impact plausible stress test for each.
They decided which stress tests of one or more of them crystallising over the assessment period.
would have the most impact on the viability of the Group and developed appropriate scenarios for these.
Principal risks and uncertainties which have the most impact on the viability of the Group and scenarios modelled Scenario modelled Principal risks and uncertainties tested Scenario 1 Brexit 1 Consequences on the organisation of the UK exit from the EU Revenue and operating profit margin fall with the impact of tariffs and higher costs: foreign exchange rates move back to pre-Brexit levels.
Scenario 2 Revenue down 2 Fail to respond to strategic market shifts Revenue falls significantly and takes time to recover.
3 The Groups revenue and profit growth initiatives are not successfully implemented 4 Failure to comply with international and local legal regulatory requirements 10 Macroeconomic environment deteriorates Scenario 3 Revenue down and lower operating profit margin 2 Fail to respond to strategic market shifts Scenario 2 plus operating profit margin further declines.
3 The Groups revenue and profit growth initiatives are not successfully implemented 4 Failure to comply with international and local legal regulatory requirements 10 Macroeconomic environment deteriorates Scenario 4 Significant site failure 5 Failure in supply chain infrastructure Major incident at the largest warehouse which destroys the building and its contents.
Scenario 5 Major system failure 6 Prolonged system outage Major system failure possibly caused by a cyber attack leading 7 Information loss cyber breach to a serious loss of service, fines for data breach and loss of reputation leading to halving of revenue growth.
The severe and plausible scenarios for the principal risks and The above scenarios are hypothetical and extremely severe 8 uncertainties UK defined benefit pension scheme cash for the purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to 9 requirements are in excess of cash available and People threaten the viability of the Group: however, multiple control resources unable to support the existing and future growth measures are in place to prevent and mitigate any such ofthe business were assessed to have less impact on the occurrences from taking place.
If any of these scenarios Groupsviability.
actually happened, various options are available to the Group to maintain liquidity so as to continue in operation.
In performing the above tests it was assumed that no major reorganisations or significant working capital initiatives would Confirmation of viability occur in mitigation, the stated dividend policy is not changed, Based on the assessment outlined above, the Directors capital expenditure is maintained at current levels and all have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able existing debt facilities are not refinanced as they mature.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to 31 March 2021.
The results of the above stress tests showed the Group would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring.
Going concern A reverse stress test was also undertaken to assess the The Directors also believe that it is appropriate to continue circumstances that would threaten the Groups current toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the financing arrangements and the Directors consider the Groupsaccounts.
risk of these circumstances occurring to be remote.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc35 RISKS, VIABILITY AND GOING CONCERN CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has identified 10 principal risks, which are similar strategic see the Groups strategy on page 14, compliance to those disclosed last year, with the only changes being the and operating risks see the Business Model on pages 4 and 5. development of some already identified risks.
The Groups These categories mirror those used by the Group to assess principal risks are categorised under one of three headings: its risk appetite.
Risk description Risk direction Mitigating activities Strategic risks A Group risk assessment in advance of the UK referendum 1 led to reviews across business areas that would be affected Consequences on the organisation Possible implications by a UK withdrawal from the EU.
of the UK exit from the EU not fully defined and These reviews include: understanding the potential impacts This includes the risk to the Groups supply dependent on national on the Groups global supply chain infrastructure, including chain activities across the UK and the EU negotiations with effects the transport of products between the UK and EU: and Group including possible changes to customs from 2020 onwards purchasing arrangements both within and outside the EU.
duties and tariffs around 80% of our Other areas that are being considered include employee purchases for the global RS brand are mobility, treasury management and indirect taxation.
routed through the UK to serve our global A specific team headed by the Group Finance Director with customer base.
Other related risks include senior representatives from the business areas most likely to migration of employees and potential be affected by the UK exit, together with the Group Head of Risk, impact with changes to existing legislation.
meet regularly to monitor the possible effects on, and mitigating actions open to, the Group.
2 Ongoing strategic and market reviews by the Board and the Fail to respond to strategic market No significant highSenior Management Team.
shifts e. g. changes in customer service level competitor Annual strategic planning process including the assessment demands and or competitor activity changes anticipated of external market changes.
Unforeseen changes in customer and market assumptions that the Group performance Ongoing review of the competitive environment.
Prioritised set of proposals and projects, including revenue 3 growth initiatives and supporting activities across shared business Second phase of The Groups revenue and profit services and supply chain infrastructure, focused on getting the the Performance growth initiatives are not basics right for our customers.
Improvement Plan PIP successfully implemented Governance structure with accountabilities designed to support will apply similar Group This risk could lead to lower than forecast delivery on time and budget, within our resources and capabilities.
governance and internal financial performance both in terms of Identification, assessment and management of the consequences control processes as revenue growth and cost savings with of changes arising from plan initiatives with demonstrable and used in the first phase changes required to Group plans and successful implementation of the first phase of the PIP.
Specific and tailored post-acquisition integration plans.
Compliance risks Employment of internal specialist expertise, supported, where 4 needed, by suitably qualified experienced external partners Failure to comply with international and No significant for example to provide relevant EU General Data Protection local legal regulatory requirements changes to new or Regulation GDPR guidance.
Failure to manage these collective risks existing legislation Ongoing reviews of relevant national and international adequately could lead to: compliance requirements.
Death or serious injury of an employee Training and awareness programmes in place focusing on or third party, and or anti-bribery, competition and data protection legislation.
Penalties for non-compliance in health Global whistleblowing hotline managed by an independent and safety or other compliance areas third party providing employees with a process to raise non-compliance issues.
Global Health and Safety policy, Target Zero accidents initiative.
Local health and safety forums in place with the VP of Global Environment, Health and Safety.
Real-time monitoring of customer orders to ensure compliance with international trade control regulations.
36 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK DIRECTION DEFINITION The risk is likely to increase within the next 12 months The risk is likely to remain stable within the next 12 months The risk is likely to reduce within the next 12 months Risk description Risk direction Mitigating activities Operating risks Business continuity plans at operating locations.
5 Regular tests at key warehouse, sales and back office locations.
Failure in supply chain infrastructure No changes to An unplanned event disrupting the Groups the Groups supply supply chain, impacting its ability to chain infrastructure maintain customer service.
Resilient IT systems infrastructure featuring operating redundancies 6 and off-site disaster recovery.
Prolonged system outage No significant changes Regular testing of the IT disaster recovery plans across the Group.
The loss of a core transactional system to the Groups Strict control over upgrades to core transaction systems and resulting in the business being unable to IT infrastructure other applications.
Core transaction systems managed from a data centre upgraded in the last two years.
Creation of Chief Information Security Officer role to manage 7 the Groups information security requirements.
Information loss cyber breach Increasing frequency Anti-virus software to protect business PCs and laptops.
An attack on the Groups systems data and sophistication Procedures to update supplier security patches to servers and clients.
could lead to potential loss of confidential of cyber attacks information and disrupt the Groups on businesses Software scanning of incoming emails for known viruses.
transactions with customers including the Firewalls to protect against malicious attempts to penetrate transactional website and transactions the business IT environment.
IT control reviews to consider the security implications of IT changes.
Security reviews with selected third-party vendors.
Computer emergency readiness team CERT to track software vulnerabilities.
Quarterly reviews of the pension scheme funding position.
8 Regular interaction with the pension scheme trustees.
UK defined benefit pension scheme No significant changes Joint trustee Company working group to review cash requirements are in excess to related financial investment strategy.
of cash available and other assumptions The Company is required to contribute anticipated Consultation with scheme members on future individual increased cash sums to the UK defined funding options for defined benefit scheme.
Development of existing employee competencies and the 9 introduction of external expertise where appropriate.
People resources unable to support No significant Annual employee appraisal processes to align personal the existing and future growth of changes to the supply objectives with the Groups strategy.
the business and retention of The business is not able to attract and quality employees retain the necessary high-performing employees to ensure that the business achieves its targeted performance.
Macroeconomic environment Economic indicators Significant headroom maintained on banking covenants deteriorates currently showing no and facilities.
The Groups revenue, and hence profit, significant change in are adversely affected by any decline in the global outlook Relevant cash flow foreign exchange hedging for business the global macroeconomic environment trading purposes.
with other associated effects such as Tight cost management and control of inventory.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc37 BECOMING FIRST CHOICE COLLABORATIVE We partner with our broad range of suppliers to deliver what our customers need to do business.
With over 500,000 items stocked and a much broader range of non-stocked products and a global distribution network we are the perfect partner for customers wishing to consolidate spend.
FOR CUSTOMERS FOR SUPPLIERS FOR COMMUNITIES Our internal and field sales teams help We are an extension of their salesforce We aim to inspire young people customers find the right component and our broad global reach, technical toward choosing science, technology, or solution for their needs.
We have a expertise and strong customer engineering and mathematics STEM broad range of products, including RS relationships are key in driving demand subjects and support a variety of Pro, our highly competitive own-brand creation for their products across the initiatives to encourage the next range, which means we are a perfect globe.
Our significant digital reach generation of engineers.
Our aim is partner for customers wishing to means we can give them the insight to influence the uptake of engineering consolidate spend.
Meanwhile our high and data they need to grow and as a career and help prevent a skills stock availability and our eProcurement develop their business.
We are also active and inventory management tools allow in promoting innovation in local our customers to reduce inventories communities see page 41. and improve productivity.
38 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GI IC C RE REP POR ORT T ON SEMICONDUCTOR ENABLING GROWTH IN APAC ON Semiconductor, a leading supplier of RS is an ideal partner semiconductor products, offers a range of for us.
The companys energy-efficient products that help engineers solid experience and solve design challenges in many industries.
technical expertise Having been ON Semiconductors distributor along with its proactive in Europe for many years, RS has now helped attitude in providing the supplier to introduce new products across suggestions for us the Asia Pacific region, which would have been are highly beneficial.
very difficult for it to do alone.
RS has helped us ON Semiconductor is a great supporter of introduce our new DesignSpark, which increases the brands products to many visibility online and helps the supplier reach customers in Asia potential customers.
Through DesignSpark, ON Pacific that without Semiconductor can reach over 650,000 member RS we would find engineers and help them develop innovative difficult to touch.
solutions quickly and efficiently using their tools DesignSpark is also and ideas.
In the future ON Semiconductor has a unique competitive plans to work closely with RS to bring more advantage of RS.
innovative IoT solutions to the market.
EAMONN AHEARNE GLOBAL ACCOUNT MANAGER, ON Through DesignSpark, SEMICONDUCTOR ON Semiconductor can reach over 650,000 member engineers A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 M 1 Ma ar rc ch 2 h 20 01 18 8 El Ele ec ct tr ro oc com omp pon one en nt ts s p plc lc 39
