STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ELEMENTIS TODAY REIGNITE GROWTH PORTFOLIO TRANSFORMATION WE ARE A GLOBAL SPECIALTY CHEMICALS COMPANY SERVING CUSTOMERS IN SELECTED MARKETS WORLDWIDE.
TO OUR CUSTOMERS WE DELIVER ENHANCED PRODUCT PERFORMANCE THROUGH APPLIED INNOVATION.
IN THE SECOND YEAR OF OUR REIGNITE GROWTH STRATEGY WE HAVE MADE MAJOR PROGRESS IN TRANSFORMING OUR PORTFOLIO, CAPABILITIES AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.
2016: Completed a business wide strategic review 2017: Reignite Growth: Strengthening the foundations 2018: Reignite Growth: Portfolio transformation Sales Net debt cash $78m $822m $783m 2016 2017 2018 $822m $498m $617m $291m 2016 2017 2018 $498m Adjusted operating profit Adjusted diluted $133m 17.0c 16.9c 16.1c $123m earnings per share $133m $97m 16.9c 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Adjusted operating margin Ordinary dividends 16.1% 8.4c 15.8% 15.7% 8.1c per share 7.7c 16.1% 8.4c 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE THE Profit before tax $79m FINANCE REPORT ON PAGES 36 TO 41 $76m $65m $65m 2016 2017 2018 Continuing operations.
After adjusting items see Note 5 Rebased for the effects of the Rights Issue see Note 9 1 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ELEMENTIS TODAY CONTINUED A TRANSFORMED PORTFOLIO WITH IMPROVED FINANCIAL TRANSPARENCY PERSONAL CARE Business model Our Personal Care business supplies rheology modifiers based on natural and synthetic ingredients to personal care manufacturers.
We also supply the active ingredient for the production of anti-perspirant deodorants.
Elementis competitive advantage is based on access to hectorite, a unique raw material, world class global research and development and a passion for delivering enhanced performance for our customers products.
2018 revenue 2018 adjusted operating profit $210m $52m Customers Our customers include global and local manufacturers of personal care products such as cosmetics and anti-perspirants.
Competition We are a leader in organoclay based rheology modifiers and anti-perspirant active ingredients.
Competition is based on formulation capabilities, customer service levels and price.
Market drivers Demand for Personal Care products is driven primarily by disposable income levels, product innovation and consumer trends.
FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE PAGE 34 OUR PRODUCTS IN ACTION Bentone gel is used to create Personal Care products that thin upon the application of force and thicken once the force is removed.
This flow behaviour enhances the aesthetics of a cream on the skin and allows flawless application of nail polish.
Bentone gel is based on hectorite, a naturally occurring clay sourced from our mine in California.
2 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COATINGS Business model Our Coatings business supplies rheology modifiers and additives to manufacturers of decorative and industrial coatings.
Elementis competitive advantage is based on access to hectorite, world class research and development capabilities and an unparalleled range of rheology solutions for Coatings customers.
2018 revenue 2018 adjusted operating profit $362m $53m Customers Our customers are manufacturers of decorative and industrial coatings.
Competition We are a leader in the global rheology modifiers and additives segment.
Competition is based on quality of service, technological capabilities and price.
Market drivers Demand for decorative coatings is influenced by disposable income, maintenance spend, housing transactions and construction activity.
Demand for industrial coatings is driven by general macroeconomic activity levels and sector specific factors such as the level of automotive demand.
FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE PAGE 35 OUR PRODUCTS IN ACTION Thixatrol is an additive used by coatings and sealant customers to adhere very heavy objects to a surface via a single spray application.
Thixatrol is predominantly based on renewable raw materials and its usage needs relatively low heat input, making it environmentally friendly.
3 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ELEMENTIS TODAY CONTINUED TALC Business model Talc supplies performance minerals with additive characteristics to a wide range of markets including coatings, plastics, life sciences and paper.
Small quantities of other minerals, predominantly nickel and cobalt, are created as a byproduct of talc purification.
Talcs competitive advantage is based on access to a distinctive raw material, and the ability to consistently deliver tightly specified, high purity, tailored functional formulation components to customers around the globe.
2018 revenue 2018 adjusted operating profit $158m $25m Pro forma 12 months see pro forma calculations on page 164 In the two month period of ownership in 2018, Talc generated $22m of revenue and $4m of adjusted operating profit.
Customers Customers are global and regional producers of industrial and decorative coatings, long life plastics, pharmaceuticals, personal care products and paper based items such as magazines.
Other minerals are sold to leading battery materials producers.
Competition Mondo is the second largest producer of talc based additives globally with a market share of approximately 11%.
Competition is based on product quality, consistency, long term supply security and the degree of technical expertise and support provided.
Market drivers Demand for talc is driven by general macro-economic conditions and by structural factors such as the increased penetration of talc in products e. g. via light weighting of vehicles and the increased use of talc in high value applications such as pharmaceuticals.
FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE PAGE 35 OUR PRODUCTS IN ACTION Finntalc is used to strengthen products, without adding unnecessary weight, and is used for long life plastics including automotive parts and household appliances.
Finntalc is a natural product made entirely from talc, the softest of all minerals, making it an environmentally friendly solution for our global customers.
4 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHROMIUM Business model We supply a range of chromium chemicals including dichromate, chrome oxide, chromic acid and chrome sulphate.
These products are used by customers across a wide range of sectors and applications to make their products more corrosion resistant and durable.
Our competitive advantage is based on being the only domestic producer of chromium chemicals in North America and our unique delivery system that minimises the need for customer interaction with our products, with significant safety benefits.
2018 revenue 2018 adjusted operating profit $184m $33m Customers Our customers span a range of industries including pigments, chrome metal, refractory, metal finishing, timber treatment and leather tanning.
Competition Elementis has approximately a 10% share of the global chromium chemicals market.
Competitors range from multinational companies to privately owned businesses.
Market drivers Demand drivers vary across our three main product categories.
The market for chrome oxide is driven by construction, coatings and aircraft demand, chrome acid by construction and infrastructure demand, and chrome sulphate by beef consumption.
FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE PAGE 35 OUR PRODUCTS IN ACTION Chrome sulphate is used in the tanning of animal hides to make leather goods.
Waynetan 180 is a product designed for faster penetration of chrome during hide preparation, resulting in higher quality leather products.
Waynetan is produced in an environmentally friendly manner at our zero water discharge facility in Milwaukee.
5 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ELEMENTIS TODAY CONTINUED ENERGY Business model Our Energy business supplies rheological modifiers and additives primarily for oil and gas drilling, and stimulation activities.
These products are formulated to lubricate the drill bit, control formation pressure and remove cuttings in drilling fluids.
Elementis competitive advantage is based on offering a range of rheology modifiers, based on natural and synthetic ingredients, to Energy customers on a global basis, supported by world class technical support.
2018 revenue 2018 adjusted operating profit $55m $7m Customers Our customers are typically the global and large regional independent oilfield service companies who use our products in various oil and gas producing regions around the world.
Competition We are a leader in organoclay based rheology modifiers for energy applications.
Technical capability and supply chain footprint are top of the buyer criteria.
Market drivers The oil price and the availability of adequate infrastructure are the primary drivers of drilling rig activity levels as well as the number of wells drilled.
However, there are also other important drivers of drilling activity such as well head breakeven cost, the number of wells per rig, the length of lateral drilling and the drilled but uncompleted well count.
FOR MORE ON THIS TOPIC SEE PAGE 35 OUR PRODUCTS IN ACTION Oil companies are increasingly working in harsh conditions which challenge drilling production rates.
Our high purity hectorite-based rheological additives, such as Bentone 38, are extremely efficient in such drilling environments.
Bentone 38 is highly resistant to contaminants, can withstand extreme high temperatures and helps to improve oil recovery.
6 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ELEMENTIS OVERVIEW Revenue split by business segment Revenue split by geography Personal Care 22% North America 31% Coatings 38% Europe 36% Talc 16% Rest of World 33% Chromium 18% Energy 6% Pro forma 12 months see pro forma calculations on page 164 Global manufacturing bases Europe Total number of sites: 6 3 Personal Care, Coatings, and Energy 3 Talc Americas Total number of sites: 13 Asia 8 Personal Care, Coatings, Total number of sites: 3 and Energy 3 Personal Care, Coatings, 5 Chromium and Energy INVESTMENT PROPOSITION Attractive margins Our operating margins are sustained through the quality of Unique value chains our products and the delivery to our customers of Enhanced We combine competitively advantaged positions in hectorite, Performance Through Applied Innovation.
talc and chromium with our global asset base and distinctive technology to serve customers in the Americas, Europe Strong cash flow and Asia.
A robust balance sheet, strong operating cash flow generation and capital expenditure discipline fund our Reignite Growth Robust organic growth strategy while providing healthy and growing dividends.
We focus on additives that deliver enhanced performance at a relatively low cost to customers in attractive growth Value creation sectors such as personal care, long-life plastics, coatings We are a growing and sustainable business.
implementation of our Reignite Growth strategy will further create value by consistently exceeding our cost of capital.
7 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
