STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive The Directors present their report and the audited financial Directors are available for inspection at the Companys statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended registered office.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE Ralph Hewins is in receipt of a conflict authorisation from the Other information that is relevant to this report and which is also Company in respect of him acting as a trustee of the Elementis incorporated by reference can be located as follows: Group Pension Scheme.
Business model Pages 18 to 19 The conflict authorisation enables Ralph Hewins to continue to act as a trustee notwithstanding that this role could give rise to Reignite Growth strategy Pages 20 to 29 a situation in which there is a conflict of interest.
The Board Indication of future developments Page 11 considers that it is appropriate for the trustees of the UK pension scheme to benefit from the financial expertise of the CFO and that Dividend Page 39 his contribution at trustees meetings demonstrates the Boards Results Pages 36 to 41 commitment to supporting the UK pension scheme.
The Boards Financial assets and liabilities Page 107 conflict authorisation is subject to annual review and, under the terms of the conflict resolution, reciprocal provisions have been Financial instruments Pages 134 to 144 put in place with a view to safeguarding information that is Principal risks Pages 42 to 48 confidential to the Group as well as to the trustees.
Were a R&D activities Pages 26 to 27 conflict of interest to arise, Ralph Hewins is required to excuse himself from reading the relevant papers and absent himself from People Pages 50 to 51 participating in relevant discussions.
Procedures are in place to Greenhouse gas emissions Page 57 ensure compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
These Going concern Page 59 procedures have been complied with during the year.
Details of any new conflicts or potential conflict matters are submitted to Viability statement Page 59 the Board for consideration and where appropriate are Long term incentive plans Page 150 to 152 approved.
Authorised conflicts and potential conflict matters are reviewed on an annual basis.
Dividend waiver Page 93 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The management report, for the purposes of the Listing Rules In addition to the indemnity granted by the Company to and Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprises the following Directors in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their sections: the Strategic report, this Directors report, the office, a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is Directors responsibility statement and the biographical maintained throughout the year.
Neither the indemnity nor the information on the Directors on pages 62 and 63. insurance provides cover in the event that a Director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Similar arrangements DIRECTORS also exist for Directors appointed to Group subsidiary entities.
The current Directors and their biographical details are detailed on pages 62 and 63.
There have been no changes to the SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE Directors during 2018 and up to the date of this report.
Detail of The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set the change of the Company Secretary is set out below: out in Note 17 on page 133.
All of the Companys issued Name Title Effective date ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
Laura Higgins Company Appointed 31 January 2018 In October 2018, the Company undertook a one for four rights Secretary issue and 116,058,808 new ordinary shares of 0.05 each were Wai Wong Company Resigned 31 January 2018 issued as a result.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares Secretary are set out in the Articles.
The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company The rights attached to the ordinary shares, in addition to those are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
There have conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys been no changes in the interests of the Directors from Articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the 31 December 2018 up until the date of this report.
Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them.
DIRECTORS POWERS From time to time the ESOT holds shares in the Company for The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation the purposes of various share incentive plans and the rights and by the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
The attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees, who Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
Company at general meeting of its shareholders.
The ESOT took up all its rights in the APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS recent Rights Issue.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace all shares that may become held by the Trust.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, appointments are recommended by the Nomination PURCHASE OF SHARES Committee for approval by the Board.
In line with the UK The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to Corporate Governance Code, the Articles also require Directors purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the Notice general meeting AGM following appointment and to retire at of Meeting.
each subsequent AGM and to submit themselves for re-election at the following AGM.
The service contracts of the Executive 93 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out As at 31 December 2018 and 5 March 2019, the following in the Notice of AGM which has been sent to shareholders and interests in voting rights over the issued share capital of the is available on the Elementis corporate website Company had been notified.
Percentage EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES of issued Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open Ordinary shares share capital atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or Ameriprise Financial, Inc. discrimination of any kind based on race, colour, religion, and its group 57,916,440 9.98 gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other APG Asset Management N. V. 55,000,000 9.48 similarly protected status is not tolerated.
This principle applies FMR LLC 36,765,204 7.92 to all aspects of employment, including recruitment and BlackRock, Inc. 35,566,458 6.12 selection, training and development, promotion and retirement.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in Limited 23,056,448 4.97 collective bargaining arrangements.
Schroders plc 22,517,387 4.91 AXA Investment Managers S. A.
23,515,878 4.05 It is also Group policy for employees who have a disability to reasonably accommodate them, where practicable, and to GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT provide training, career development and promotion, as The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have appropriate.
adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Code requires criteria and its practices include the prohibition on the use of the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the child or forced labour.
This longer term viability statement is set out on page 59.
Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL suppliers, and further details are set out in the section on There are few significant agreements which the Company is Resources and Relationships on pages 49 to 58. party to that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company.
The Company is a guarantor under EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS AND INVOLVEMENT the Groups $200m and 172m long term loans and $375m The Company is committed to employee involvement throughout revolving credit facility and, in the event of a change of control, the business.
Employees are kept informed of the performance any lender among the facility syndicate, of which there are 12 and strategy of the Group via email.
Telephone conference calls with commitments ranging from $25m to $93m, may withdraw are held by the CEO to employees worldwide and these serve from the facility and that lenders participation in any loans as an informal forum for employees to ask topical questions drawn down are required to be repaid.
Following the acquisition of Mondo, the CEO visited newly acquired sites to welcome employees to the Group.
The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on The Company operates savings based share option schemes the rights of the participants under those schemes.
Under the in the US and UK to encourage and support employee share rules of the respective schemes, participants would generally be ownership.
able to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied POLITICAL DONATIONS and, where relevant, options are not exchanged for new options The Group made no political donations during the year granted by an acquiring company.
AUDITORS BRANCHES Deloitte LLP were appointed the Companys auditors by As a global Group, Elementis interests and activities are held or shareholders at the 2016 AGM and were re-appointed at both operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or the 2017 and the 2018 AGM.
A resolution is included in the associates which are established in, and subject to the laws and Notice of Meeting for the 2019 AGM to re-appoint Deloitte LLP regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
OTHER INFORMATION The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Information about financial risk management and exposure to Directors report confirm that, in so far as they are each aware, financial market risks are set out in Note 21 to the financial there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys statements on pages 134 to 144. auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the There were no significant events after the balance sheet date.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00 am on Tuesday LAURA HIGGINS 30 April 2019 at the offices of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, COMPANY SECRETARY Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG.
5 March 2019 94 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
