BUSINESS MODEL INPUTS OVERVIEW VALUE CREATION People Shareholders Elementis is a global specialty chemicals Our engaged and skilled Strong balance sheet and workforce are focused on cash generation delivering company operating across five business customer collaboration and sustainable returns to segments: Personal Care, Coatings, delivery of our strategy shareholders Talc, Chromium and Energy on an Dividends paid in 2018 Capital international scale.
We operate within a $41.9m disciplined framework to Employees Our primary purpose is to make our customers formulations invest in growth, productivity Our total global workforce look, feel and perform at their best and enable and maintenance to support of c. 1,500 is critical for the distinctiveness in the market Enhanced Performance our strategy delivery of our strategy Through Applied Innovation.
Through operations, research and development, sales and marketing we apply innovation Relationships 2018 employee pay with purpose to provide value to our customers.
We strive to build long term $117.4m relationships with customers, suppliers and other Customers OUR VALUES stakeholders Building relationships with our key customers ensures we are Safety Supply chain better placed to deliver the Our global manufacturing best growth opportunities footprint is aligned to Solutions operational performance Total revenue from customers $822.2m Assets Suppliers We own and operate the Ambition We value our supplier worlds largest known source relationships and take a long of high quality rheology grade term strategic approach to hectorite clay and operate four relationship management talc mines with high quality Respect long duration talc resources Raw materials within one of only two known 700 deposits of scale in Europe.
Team Communities Expertise Acting responsibly better Our technical service teams serves the communities where use their formulation expertise we operate to work closely with our OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE customers to deliver their Carbon disclosure project needs Unique value chain B rating Link to Our Strategy Product stewardship pages 20 to 29 We have dedicated resource to oversee comprehensive Robust organic growth Link to Principal Risks product safety, stewardship and Uncertainties and regulatory compliance pages 42 to 48 Strong cash flow Link to Viability Statement page 59 Attractive margins Link to Directors Remuneration Report pages 78 to 92 Innovation and product development FOR MORE ON OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS SEE PAGES 34 TO 35 18 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR SOURCES OF THE INPUTS WE NEED COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE TO CREATE VALUE UNIQUE VALUE CHAIN PEOPLE We combine competitively advantaged positions in hectorite, We have strong leadership with a clear business strategy talc and chromium with our global asset base and distinctive supported by functional teams and a skilled workforce focused technology to serve customers in selected markets worldwide.
on customer collaboration and operating safely and responsibly in the environments wherever we operate.
ROBUST ORGANIC GROWTH We focus on additives that deliver enhanced performance to our CAPITAL customers in attractive growth sectors such as personal care, We operate within a disciplined framework to support our lightweight plastics, coatings and energy.
strategy and invest in growth, productivity and maintenance.
ATTRACTIVE MARGINS RELATIONSHIPS Our operating margins are sustained through the quality of our We build and maintain close relationships with our customers products and the delivery to our customers of Enhanced to meet their needs.
Long term relationships with customers, Performance Through Applied Innovation.
suppliers and other stakeholders are built on trust and collaboration.
We monitor trends and market developments STRONG CASH FLOW to ensure our formulations meet the requirements not only of A robust balance sheet, strong operating cash flow generation our customers but the end users of their products.
and capital expenditure discipline fund our Reignite Growth strategy while providing healthy and growing dividends.
SUPPLY CHAIN We have a global manufacturing footprint where safety is CAPITAL EFFICIENCY aligned to operational performance.
We have manufacturing We are a growing and sustainable business.
The implementation sites located in UK, US, Brazil, Germany, Finland, Netherlands, of our Reignite Growth strategy will further create value by China and Taiwan.
Quality controls, testing, procedures, consistently exceeding our cost of capital.
certifications and compliance with applicable regulations drive consistent product quality.
INNOVATION AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT We have a global R&D function focused on strengthening the ASSETS pipeline of new customer focused product development and We own and operate the worlds largest known source of innovation.
We apply innovation with purpose to all parts of our high quality rheology grade hectorite clay.
This raw material, business through operations and R&D.
combined with a global production footprint and innovative leadership adds value to our customers through the creation HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT of innovative, high performance products in Personal Care, We are committed to providing a healthy and safe workplace Coatings and Energy sectors.
In addition, we operate four talc for employees, contractors and site visitors and minimising our mines in Finland for specialty long-plastics, paints and impact on the environment from our operations.
We place a diversified industrials and non-specialty applications paper.
great emphasis on protecting people and operating responsibly.
Our talc segment has a leading competitive position as a result of high quality, long duration talc resources combined with PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP proprietary processing methods and formulation expertise.
Comprehensive product safety and product stewardship processes are in place which support product safety and In Chromium we are the only domestic producer in North regulatory compliance we strive to provide innovative products America, and our unique delivery system minimises the need that create value for customers that are safe for people and the for customer interaction with our products, with significant environment when used for their intended purpose.
BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS EXPERTISE Our Code of Conduct sets out our core values and the New product development and innovation pipeline is supported standards of conduct expected of everyone who works for by technical service and expertise.
Our technical service Elementis in any of its worldwide operations, including laboratories work closely with our customers to deliver their compliance with all applicable laws and regulation.
In addition, the talc segment utilises proprietary flotation process know-how and formulation expertise to deliver superior RISK MANAGEMENT product quality and consistency in a wide range of end markets.
Effective risk management supports the successful delivery of our strategic objectives.
We have an established risk management framework to identify, evaluate and mitigate the risks we face as a business.
19 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
