OUR MARKETPLACE WELL POSITIONED IN A LARGE AND FRAGMENTED MARKETPLACE THE MARKET TODAY KEY MARKET TRENDS Market growth Our strategic response and consolidation We aim to grow market share both We operate in a large, organically and by acquisition.
is our estimate of the value of the overall estimated market growth The market is growing and high-service electronics and industrial we are seeing increasing market in which we operate signs of consolidation.
We operate in a large Digital transition Our strategic response market served by only a Online penetration in We are a leading player in digital, Growth the marketplace remains with 61% of revenue online.
We have few international distributors in online penetration low.
Looking ahead, we invested heavily in digital talent, believe that an increasing our website, online design tools and numerous regional and percentage of revenue will and our new mobile platform.
We local providers, and where be generated online, making are also increasing our investment a multi-channel sales model in eProcurement and inventory the majority of revenue increasingly important.
management tools to further differentiate our service.
Customers seeking Our strategic response a one-stop shop Our global presence, broad product Despite its size, much of Customers are seeking to range and breadth of service make us 2:1 the market is still local in simplify their procurement, a perfect partner for customers wishing ratio of procurement manage their supply chain to consolidate their spend.
We are nature, and our competitors cost to product cost more actively and build more expanding our range and value-added source: Manchester are local independent collaborative relationships services and our global accounts Business School with suppliers to increase programme is well positioned to businesses, regional firms their access to innovation.
and vertical sub-category Industry 4.0, increasing Our strategic response specialists.
factory connectivity Our broad product portfolio Technology is driving covers both industrial and electronic 30bn change: Industry 4.0, products, meaning we are well connected things by 2020 the trend of automation positioned to benefit from growth in and data exchange in the Industrial Internet of Things IIoT.
manufacturing technologies, We are driving more innovation into is accelerating the our business and are piloting new connectivity of smart IIoT solutions to ensure we are well factories and smart placed to capitalise on this trend.
It has the potential to transform the way our customers do things, bringing further opportunities to grow our business.
The market today Large, fragmented, local in nature and digitally immature.
WELL POSITIONED TO TAKE SHARE 8 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY MARKET TRENDS HOW WILL WE GAIN SHARE?
Market growth Our strategic response Our marketplace is large and growing.
and consolidation We aim to grow market share both Scale, digital expertise and our ability to serve our We operate in a large, organically and by acquisition.
estimated market growth customers globally will help us win in this market.
The market is growing and we are seeing increasing Growth in customer numbers Sell more to existing customers by: signs of consolidation.
and order frequency, driven by: Rationalising and expanding our Market-leading customer service stocked range Digital transition Our strategic response Leadership in digital Expanding our non-stocked range Online penetration in We are a leading player in digital, Best-in-class sales process and Adding new value-added services Growth the marketplace remains with 61% of revenue online.
We have go-to-market approach in online penetration low.
Looking ahead, we invested heavily in digital talent, Accelerate growth of RS Pro by: believe that an increasing our website, online design tools Differentiation with technology, Expansion of the product range percentage of revenue will and our new mobile platform.
We innovation and data-led insight Increased brand awareness be generated online, making are also increasing our investment a multi-channel sales model in eProcurement and inventory New channel partners in less increasingly important.
management tools to further developed markets differentiate our service.
RS Market growth trends Customers seeking Our strategic response Industrial and electronic products Industrial markets a one-stop shop Our global presence, broad product and solutions supplied to customers growing at GDP.
Customers are seeking to range and breadth of service make us 2:1 across Europe and Asia Pacific.
simplify their procurement, a perfect partner for customers wishing ratio of procurement manage their supply chain to consolidate their spend.
We are cost to product cost more actively and build more expanding our range and value-added ALLIED Market growth trends source: Manchester collaborative relationships services and our global accounts Authorised A&C and IP&E products Automation market growing Business School with suppliers to increase programme is well positioned to supplied to customers in the large above GDP, driven by factory their access to innovation.
automation market in the Americas.
refresh and customer investment to drive productivity.
Industry 4.0, increasing Our strategic response factory connectivity Our broad product portfolio RS PRO Market growth trends Technology is driving covers both industrial and electronic 30bn High-quality, value-for-money Global industrial B2B market change: Industry 4.0, products, meaning we are well connected things by 2020 own-brand products to meet the growing ahead of GDP and the trend of automation positioned to benefit from growth in needs of global industrial Business highly fragmented.
and data exchange in the Industrial Internet of Things IIoT.
manufacturing technologies, We are driving more innovation into is accelerating the our business and are piloting new connectivity of smart IIoT solutions to ensure we are well DESIGNSPARK Market growth trends factories and smart placed to capitalise on this trend.
An online community of over Growing market of makers buildings.
It has the 650,000 makers, students and requiring technological skills potential to transform design engineers.
Our online to create innovative projects.
the way our customers platform of resources, communities do things, bringing further and technical tools, to support the opportunities to grow engineering design process.
The future market Large, more consolidated and multi-channel majority of revenue online.
BECOME FIRST CHOICE IN THIS SPACE Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc9 BECOMING FIRST CHOICE SIMPLE We make it easy to do business.
Customers and suppliers are at the heart of our business and our focus is on making it easy for them to do business with us.
MULTI-CHANNEL TECHNICAL BEST-IN-CLASS APPROACH AND CUSTOMER DIGITAL SUPPORT EXPERIENCE Our customers can work with us in The significant product knowledge and We have invested to significantly whichever way suits them, whether technical expertise of our salesforce improve search, content and through our website, via email, and our technical support team as well website speed such that our online over the phone or in person.
We also as information on our website help our customer satisfaction scores are now offer our customers choice in how customers find the right solutions to industry leading in the B2B sector.
and when they receive purchases their problems.
We are committed to We have revamped our eProcurement and consolidate deliveries, helping supporting our customers 24 7 365 and ePurchasing tools to offer to reduce procurement costs.
days a year, both over the phone and our customers more control and via Live Chat.
personalisation throughout their RS Allied experience.
10 10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT AGILE TEAMS TRANSFORMING OUR ONLINE EXPERIENCE We aim to make our customers lives easier and we work constantly to find solutions to their needs.
This year we passed the We focus on user-centred design and collate around significant landmark 90,000 pieces of real-time customer feedback in our of 1 billion of annual global Voice of the Customer surveys.
This hold user testing sessions to gain insight on how we firmly cemented us can improve our customers experience.
as a global force in the B2B digital space.
Over 60% of our revenues are now digital: we have We constantly evolve invested in significant digital capabilities with over to stay ahead of the 300 people working in our digital team and 15 Agile market, adapting to teams working constantly on improving our website the needs of our fast and online experience.
During the year, we have moving and highly more than doubled the number of Agile releases knowledgeable to improve the functionality, speed and content customer base.
on our website and have added 128 new releases.
Over the past year, our average page load speed ALEX VON SCHIRMEISTER CHIEF INNOVATION has improved by 28% and our CSAT score, the OFFICER customer satisfaction measure we use in the UK, France, Germany and Japan, has risen to 69, well above the B2B benchmark of 64.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc11
