OUR STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITY PURSUE BEST GROWTH OUR REIGNITE OPPORTUNITIES GROWTH STRATEGY IS BASED ON FOUR PILLARS 1 OF ACTIVITY Our strategic choices focus on the most attractive and material opportunities for Elementis 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS Acquisition of Mondo, the second largest producer of talc based additives in the world Launched global Coatings transformation Acquired a manufacturing site in Mumbai, India to serve fast growing Coatings, Personal Care and Energy markets in the surrounding regions Global key account revenue growth Business insight: increased by 6% in 2018 There is always a better way.
Our strategy seeks to concentrate on growth markets supported by major global demographic and consumer 2019 PRIORITIES Implement global Coatings trends.
transformation Asia growth: create a new platform But fundamentally our approach is in India based on the understanding that there Talc integration and synergy delivery is always a better way.
Better ways to interact with our key customers.
Better ways to run our businesses.
Better products that improve our customers RISKS Uncertain global economic conditions products.
Business interruption as a result of And better ways to empower, develop major event and motivate our people.
Because Business interruption as a result of ultimately it is our people who supply chain failure deliver our strategy.
Portfolio innovation and technology 20 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PURSUE SUPPLY CHAIN INNOVATE FOR HIGH CREATE A CULTURE OF TRANSFORMATION MARGINS AND HIGH PERFORMANCE DISTINCTIVENESS 2 3 4 Elementis has a number Innovation is at the heart of Achieving the right of quality manufacturing what we do.
Focusing on organisation is essential assets: however, some are significant innovation to grow the business disadvantaged.
We are opportunities will continue transforming our supply to enhance our customers chain to unlock cash and performance deliver increased financial performance Completed the sale of Delden and Winner of Sensory Gold award at Creation of global Coatings organisation New Jersey sites, previously home to in-cosmetics Global 2018 for Rheoluxe Commenced integration of Mondo our Surfactants and US Colourants skin care experience Launch of new digital strategy businesses respectively 9% growth of our Thixatrol organic Improved working capital management Consolidation of organoclay operations thixotropes in the Americas Roll out of comprehensive safety in North America and China information management system Delivered $12m of working capital savings Qualified new sources of supply for 10% of raw materials Execution of working capital Focus on fewer, more material Quality of earnings focus: margin and optimisation programme opportunities across the Group cash flow Continued pursuit of procurement Deliver Personal Care products Roll out new digital capability savings and improved manufacturing for skincare applications such as Embed the new Elementis values productivity Bentone Hydroclay Improved Chromium operations Leverage R&D expertise to support reliability Talc growth Uncertain global economic conditions Increasing regulatory and product Intellectual property and know-how Business interruption as a result of stewardship challenges Talent management and succession major event Intellectual property and know-how Cyber security incident Business interruption as a result of Portfolio innovation and technology supply chain failure Major regulatory enforcement action 21 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED PURSUE BEST GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES 1 STRATEGY IN ACTION COATINGS ASIA In Asia, we have a strong presence centred upon China.
In 2018, under the direction our new global Coatings team, we began to transform our business through rigorous evaluation of our product offering, routes to market and cost base.
This has resulted in moves to improve product differentiation, rationalise our product portfolio and implement standardised service level agreements to reduce working capital and improve supply efficiency.
Our global Coatings transformation will continue at pace in 2019.
In December 2018 we acquired a production facility in Mumbai for $4m, a key step in developing a direct presence in India.
This facility will allow us to bring our distinctive technology to the market and enable us to strengthen our customer proposition.
The plant, which will start production in 2019 and ramp up in 2020, will serve the Coatings, Personal Care and Energy markets in India and beyond, and is an exciting development for Elementis in Asia.
22 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR ELEMENTIS Our strategic choices focus on the most attractive and material opportunities for Elementis PERSONAL CARE GLOBAL GROWTH Owning the only commercial high quality rheology grade hectorite mine in the world provides access to a raw material that is natural, white and an outstanding rheology modifier.
In 2018, we continued to grow our hectorite based business and made progress diversifying our product portfolio.
Rheoluxe, our new polymer based thickener, won Sensory Gold at the in-Cosmetics Global exhibition and is building momentum with customers revenue rose 13% in 2018.
Our natural, Meadowfoam based ingredients also made good progress in 2018, seeing incorporation into ground breaking skin care products such as Supergoop!
In the first full year of ownership, our antiperspirant active business has demonstrated the ability to balance cost recovery and the strength of our customer relationships in the face of significant raw material price increases.
In 2019 we will roll out new products targeted at skin care including Bentone Hydroclay, drive penetration of our Bentone gel product range and introduce more customers to our wide range of natural ingredients.
GLOBAL KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT Key account management is about improving how we work with our most important global customers.
In 2018, we leveraged our new processes and systems, repositioned our thinking from a regional to global perspective and engaged with our customers at the most senior levels possible.
As a result, our dialogue with key customers has improved and we are seeing increased technical collaboration.
In 2018, revenue from these key accounts rose by 6%.
6% 23 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED PURSUE SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSFORMATION 2 STRATEGY IN ACTION MANUFACTURING PRODUCTIVITY Production within our network of assets is being optimised to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
In 2018, we made significant progress at our organoclay operations.
In China, we closed the Changxing site and consolidated capacity at the nearby Anji facility, whilst in the US we relocated our flash dryer capacity from Charleston to St Louis.
Both of these moves allowed us to improve utilisation rates and lower operating costs.
During the year we vigorously pursued our $18m working capital improvement target by 2020.
Standardised service level agreements, new inventory management systems and the removal of low sales and low margin items that create excess inventory, resulted in $12m of savings.
We have increased our overall ambition from $18m to a $25m sustainable reduction in working capital, and are well placed to deliver the rest of the target in 2019 and 2020.
24 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR ELEMENTIS We are transforming our supply chain to reduce costs, unlock cash and thus deliver enhanced financial performance.
ADDRESS DISADVANTAGED ASSETS In 2018, we exited two significant assets.
In February, we completed the sale of our Surfactants business, including the Delden production site, for 39m and in August we agreed to sell the Jersey City site, previously home to the US Colourants business, for $17m.
Exiting these assets has generated cash, simplified our supply chain, significantly reduced ongoing maintenance capex and allowed the re-allocation of capital to higher margin growth opportunities.
In November, we closed our organoclay site in Changxing.
In 2019, we will continue to focus on continuous improvement of our assets across sectors and geographies.
Our former Surfactants plant in Delden, Netherlands.
PURSUE PROCUREMENT SAVINGS Procurement optimisation continues to create shareholder value.
In 2018, we qualified new raw material sources for more than 10% of our raw material spend and achieved more than $6m of cost savings.
Smarter procurement enabled the partial mitigation of raw material cost inflation, particularly within the antiperspirant actives business.
Finally, we rationalised our logistics network and re-negotiated utility suppliers.
In 2019, we will be focused on further improvement in this area.
$6m 25 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED INNOVATE FOR HIGH MARGINS AND DISTINCTIVENESS 3 STRATEGY IN ACTION DELIVER NEW PRODUCT PIPELINE Our innovation pipeline contains many new projects coming to market in 2019.
In Personal Care, natural functional ingredients are in demand, and consumers also want products that have great application aesthetics.
Our new Bentone Hydroclay product line delivers these requirements, enabling cosmetic formulators to create natural skin care products that also deliver novel sensory experiences.
Greener technology, improved performance and efficiency are also key drivers in the Coatings industry.
Our Thixatrol organic thixotropes allow customers to formulate products at lower temperatures, saving energy and increasing product throughput time.
Thixatrol is comprised of a high percentage of renewable materials and can be used for the most demanding applications.
With the acquisition of Mondo, the addition of Talc opens up an exciting new pillar in our technology portfolio.
Looking forward, we will continue to leverage our core competencies to drive innovation and identify opportunities to transfer our technologies between industry segments.
26 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR ELEMENTIS Innovation is at the heart of what we do.
Delivering significant innovations enhances both our customers product performance and our competitive market position.
SUSTAIN INNOVATION LEADERSHIP We drive innovation to meet our customers needs and the trends impacting our business segments, to deliver superior performance, improved efficiency and increased sustainability.
Leveraging our core competencies in natural mineral-based technologies and polymer architecture, we create innovative solutions aimed at transforming the markets which we serve.
To increase the speed and success of our innovation pipeline, we work with strategic partners around the world.
27 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED CREATE A CULTURE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE 4 STRATEGY IN ACTION STRUCTURE In 2018, we accelerated the shift from a regional to a global Coatings organisation with the creation of a cross functional leadership team and a number of personnel changes in key account management, service delivery and within our Asian business.
We are confident that our team in Coatings now has the talent and drive to propel the organisation forwards.
Following the acquisition of Mondo in October 2018 we established a specific project team and the integration of Mondo has begun at pace.
28 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR ELEMENTIS Achieving the right organisation and performance management processes is essential to build our culture and grow the business.
PROCESSES In 2018, improved demand planning, inventory management and performance management tracking were some of the areas in which we made progress as part of our commitment to deliver a targeted $25m of sustainable working capital improvement.
Our digital strategy aims to make it easier for customers to do business with Elementis.
In 2018, we commenced the improvement of our CRM systems and customer facing websites, and increased the resources dedicated to data protection and transparency a key part of our commitment to customers and staff seeking assurance and visibility.
To further improve our safety performance we rolled out Enablon, a comprehensive safety information management system.
Enablon improves our ability to both track, trend and analyse safety data, and implement corrective and preventative actions.
As part of our employee development offer, we continue to utilise workday, our automated human resources system, to improve our performance culture and performance management.
Looking to 2019, priorities include increased employee engagement and the integration of Mondo.
$25m 29 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
