STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN BUSINESS VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the Group as a going concern, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code having given consideration to factors likely to affect its future provision C. 2.2, theDirectors have reviewed the Groups current performance and development, the Groups financial position position andcarried out a robust assessment of the principal and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, risks and uncertainties that might threaten the business model, including theGroups exposure to credit, liquidity and market future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group, risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
including resilience to such threats, and consider that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The Groups net debt position at the year end of 2018 was in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period $498.1m.
It has access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of at least three years.
of $375m and long term loan facilities of $200m and 172m which have an expiry date of September 2023.
A period of three years was chosen as being consistent with the Groups business and financial planning models, R&D plans, Under this principal borrowing facility, the Group performs a number of key supply contracts and external borrowing covenant tests for net debt:EBITDA ratio and interest cover.
In addition, three years is the period used for mid-term breaches in the required covenant tests were reported during business planning purposes.
Whilst the Directors have no the year.
The Group also uses various short and medium term reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and these period, a three year period allows the Directors to make the include stress testing assumptions to identify the headroom on viability statement with a reasonable degree of confidence whilst these covenant tests.
providing shareholders with an appropriate longer term outlook.
The Directors viability assessment of the Groups prospects is The Directors are satisfied that, after considering all of the based on reviews of annual operating and three year business above, it is appropriate for the Group and the Company to adopt plans, bank covenant compliance forecasts, including the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these Group sensitivities, the Groups strategy and strategic priorities, and parent company financial statements, and that there are no principal risks and how these are managed and mitigated.
How material uncertainties to the ability of the Group and Company these reviews were carried out, the principal risks and how they to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the are being managed are more fully described and explained in date of approval of the financial statements.
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 42 to 48, together with relevant assumptions and qualifications.
BUSINESS VIABILITY ASSESSMENT The basis of the assessment includes a detailed review of STRATEGIC REPORT strategic and operating plans, underpinned by one and three The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors year financial forecasts including profit and loss and cash flows.
on 5 March 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: Consideration is therefore given to capital expenditures, investment plans, returns to shareholders and other financial PAUL WATERMAN RALPH HEWINS commitments, as well as to the Companys debt bearing CEO CFO capacity, its financial resources, borrowings and the availability of finance.
No review of business plans and financial forecasts is complete without a robust assessment of the risks and opportunities in such planning models and the assumptions used.
These reviews include consideration and discussion of the materials prepared and presented to the Board by management and its advisers where appropriate, as well as additional information requested by the Board.
The Boards programme of monitoring major risks is therefore, an important component of the business viability assessment.
Business and segment growth scenarios, rate of return on investments, assumptions on global GDP growth rates, relevant currency rates, commodity prices in business plans and financial forecasts are all considered, with stress testing on financial models where appropriate.
Finally, a review of litigation and tax reports, legal and compliance risks throughout the year and at a formal year end risk review ensures that the viability statement is made with a reasonable degree of confidence.
59 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In this section: 61 Chairmans Introduction 62 Board of Directors 64 Executive Leadership Team 66 Corporate Governance Report 72 Nomination Committee Report 73 Audit Committee Report 78 Directors Remuneration Report 93 Directors Report 95 Directors Responsibilities 96 Independent Auditors Report 60 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
