CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT A SUMMARY OF GENERAL DISCLOSURES The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Group for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Introduction This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include in the Annual Report.
This section together with the information from pages 48 to 78 and other information cross-referenced by this section which is incorporated by reference constitutes the Directors Report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Management report and future developments The Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47 form the management report for the purposes of Rule 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Section 414C 11, to include the disclosure of likely future developments in the Strategic Report.
A summary of general disclosures incorporated in this Directors Report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report is set out on the page numbers below: Page numbers Likely future developments 12 to 23 Policy on disability 40 Employee engagement 42 Greenhouse gas emissions 46 Names of Directors who served during the year 48 and 49 Results 90 Details of employee share schemes 68 and 69 Subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 121 to 123 Financial risk management including hedging 113 to 119 1.
Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report.
Information required to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report: Page numbers 68 LR 9.4.
3 Long Term Incentive Schemes Shareholder waivers of dividends 109 Other than as set out above, there is no further applicable information to disclose in relation to LR 9.8.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc79 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Results and dividends Tax strategy and policies Results for the year are set out in the Group income statement During the year the Board reviewed and endorsed the on page 90.
An analysis of revenue and profit by segment is Groups tax strategy, and reviewed the principal tax shown in Note 2 on pages 96 and 97.
The Directors have risks and opportunities and discussed the position with declared dividends as follows: management.
The Companys tax strategy is aligned with its business strategy, and focused on sustainability and Ordinary shares compliance.
Further details of the tax strategy and policies Paid interim dividend of 5.25p per were published on the Groups website in line with the share paid on 10 January 2018 2017: 5p per share requirement of the Finance Act 2016 which requires large Proposed final dividend of 8p per businesses to publish their UK tax strategy.
The Board also share to be paid on 25 July 2018 2017: 7.30p per share discussed the Groups response to measures included in the Total ordinary dividend of 13.25p per share for year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 12.30p per share Criminal Finances Act which came into effect on 30 September 2017, creating a new corporate offence of failing to prevent the Share capital facilitation of tax evasion by employees and external agents.
Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under the terms of the Companys share incentive plans Political contributions can be found in Note 8 on pages 101 to 104.
In the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group made no political donations or contributions.
As at 31 March 2018, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 442,397,385 ordinary shares AGM of 10p each, totalling 44,239,738.50.
The Notice of the AGM is set out in a separate circular.
The AGM The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM will be held at 10.30am on Thursday, 19 July 2018 at Linklaters held on 20 July 2017 to purchase up to 5% of its ordinary share LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
The Company did not make use of this authority during the year.
This authority will expire at the end Disclosure of information to Auditor of the 2018 AGM and the Company is proposing a resolution The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this to renew it for another year.
Directors Report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is Directors indemnities unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association Articles, any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor the Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the is aware of that information.
Directors and Officers from time to time of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of this indemnity Conflicts of interest which remains in force as of the date on which this Directors The Companys Articles give the Board power to authorise Report was approved is available at the registered office of situations that might give rise to Directors conflicts of the Company.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest management procedure.
The Board is responsible The Company purchased and maintained Directors and for considering whether authorisation is required, and if Officers liability insurance throughout 2017, which was it can be given, in relation to new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any conflict authorisations it Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event has given and any limitations that have been applied.
that a Director or Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Important events since 31 March 2018 Financial instruments The Group is in late stage negotiations to acquire the share For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, capital of AGHOCO 1079 Limited and its subsidiaries IESA, including its financial risk management objectives and policies, a leading provider of value-added outsourcing services and the Groups exposure to certain financial risks, see Notes to industrial customers.
The agreement is being signed on 20 to 22 on pages 113 to 119.
24 May 2018 and the acquisition is expected to be completed by the end of May.
On 24 May 2018 the Group is announcing it is launching the second phase of its Performance Improvement Plan.
Further details can be found on page 13.
80 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Substantial shareholders In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been notified of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: As at 31 March 2018 As at the date of this report Number of Percentage Number of Percentage shares held shares held Columbia Threadneedle Investments 69,179.307 15.64 68,536,955 15.64 Majedie Asset Management 32,732,344 7.40 32,683,818 7.40 Silchester International Investors 30,528,291 6.90 30,023,009 6.90 Old Mutual Global Investors 20,620,537 4.66 20,111,236 4.66 M&G Investment Management 18,921,931 4.28 19,781,434 4.28 A summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Deadlines for exercising voting rights Articles and applicable English law concerning UK companies Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act is set out below.
to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
The This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of information is required.
the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Dividends and distributions Variation of rights Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights may, by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare attached to any class of shares may be varied with the dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of meeting of the holders of those shares.
all or part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest Transfer of shares as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in a notice after failure to provide the Company with information any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to concerning their interest in those shares required to be provided the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or under the Companies Act.
on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares Voting rights which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any CREST system.
class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, inperson and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show intheir absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, ofhands, one vote, and on a poll every member who is present refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in ofjoint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be from taking place on an open and proper basis.
accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more ofthe shares.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall, within two months after the Restrictions on voting date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by with the Company, send to the allottee or transferee a notice proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of ofthe refusal.
any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, may determine that any class of shares may be held in no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be a notice after failure to provide the Company with information transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares concerning interests in those shares required to be provided of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc81 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Appointment and replacement of Directors Gender pay gap reporting Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 12 in We published our first set of gender pay information in March number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the 2018 as required by law.
Our median base pay gap was 29%.
Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by The data revealed two factors heavily influencing the gap.
ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or These influences were that our highest paid roles are mainly minimum number of Directors.
filled by men and we have an occupational segregation issue, with men clustered in roles such as innovation which command Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at high pay premiums in the market, whilst women are typically or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the clustered in support functions, which tend not to attract similar current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
Whilst we have been seeking to recruit more women Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding into senior roles and have made progress with two female an executive office shall retire at each AGM following the Senior Management Team hires in the last two years, we have ninth anniversary of the date on which they were elected.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
We will be taking actions to create a more diverse and inclusive The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long place to work and reduce our gender pay gap over time.
as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit Specific actions in the short term include: prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office Analyse employee data and employee feedback to best only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election.
understand the current state of gender diversity across the organisation and the perceived barriers to the Powers of the Directors advancement of women Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions Introduce initatives to help break down those barriers given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board, who may exercise all the powers Continue to focus on recruiting and retaining women in of the Company.
senior and critical roles Support Working for Women communities across locations The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to drive change at all levels to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue We recognise that progress will inevitably be gradual, debentures and other securities, whether outright or as however, improving diversity and inclusiveness will remain collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of a business key priority.
the Company or of any third party.
Significant agreements: change of control The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 23 May 2018 All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to and signed on its behalf by: a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, Ian Haslegrave subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at General Counsel and Company Secretary that time.
There are no other significant agreements that take effect upon a change of control.
Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
82 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018
