Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.9 Impairment of non-financial assets continued 3.11 Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement continued Exploration and evaluation assets are tested for impairment when there is an indication that a particular exploration and evaluation project Financial assets at amortised cost may be impaired.
Examples of indicators of impairment include a significant price decline over an extended period, the decision to delay or The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: no longer pursue the exploration and evaluation project, or an expiration of rights to explore an area.
In addition, exploration and evaluation X The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash assets are assessed for impairment upon their reclassification to producing assets oil and gas interest in property, plant and equipment.
flowsand In assessing the impairment of exploration and evaluation assets, the carrying value of the asset would be compared to the estimated X The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest recoverable amount and any impairment loss recognised immediately in profit or loss.
on the principal amount outstanding Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 December and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest rate EIR method and are subject to impairment.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU or group of CGUs to which the goodwill relates.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Impairment losses relating togoodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost include trade receivables.
3.10 Leasing Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
areclassified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Operating leases Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective The Group as lessee: hedging instruments.
Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model.
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease as well as prepayments and any other premiums paid are amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch.
3.11 Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of anotherentity.
This category includes derivative instruments and listed equity investments which the Group had not irrevocably elected to classify at fair value through OCI.
Dividends on listed equity investments are also recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the i Financial assets right of payment has been established.
Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive Derecognition income OCI, or fair value through profit or loss.
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is primarily derecognised i. e. removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups business model for managing them.
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component Impairment of financial assets or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss.
of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15.
Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate.
The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
This assessment is referred to as the SPPI ECLs are recognised in two stages.
For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial test and is performed at an instrument level.
recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12-month ECL.
For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required The Groups business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default lifetime ECL.
The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track Subsequent measurement changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date.
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories: The Group considers a financial asset in default when contractual payments are 90 days past due.
However, in certain cases, the Group X Financial assets at amortised cost debt instruments may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external information indicates that the Group is unlikely to receive the X Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses debt instruments outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group.
A financial asset is written X Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
equityinstruments ii Financial liabilities X Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
122Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018123 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.11 Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement continued 3.11 Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement continued The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following effectiveness requirements: Subsequent measurement X There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument.
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: X The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss X The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actuallyhedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Hedges that meet all the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as described below: Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category Cash flow hedges alsoincludes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in OCI in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective relationships as defined by IFRS 9.
Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss.
The cash flow hedge reserve is adjusted to the lower of the cumulative aseffective hedging instruments.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
The Group uses forward commodity contracts for its exposure to volatility in the commodity prices.
The ineffective portion relating Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and toforward commodity contracts is recognised in revenue or cost of sales.
only if the criteria in IFRS 9 are satisfied.
The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
From 1 January 2018, the Group designates only the spot element of forward contracts as a hedging instrument.
The forward element Loans and borrowings isrecognised in OCI and accumulated in a separate component of equity.
This is the category most relevant to the Group.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured The amount accumulated in OCI is reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment in the same period or periods during which at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised, modified the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss.
and through the EIR amortisation process.
If cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued, the amount that has been accumulated in OCI must remain in accumulated OCI if Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the the hedged future cash flows are still expected to occur.
Otherwise, the amount will be immediately reclassified to profit or loss as EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
After discontinuation, once the hedged cash flow occurs, any amount remaining in accumulated OCI This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
mustbeaccounted for depending on the nature of the underlying transaction.
Derecognition Equity instruments A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially Ordinary shares modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity and measured at their nominal value.
Any premiums received on issue of share capital above its Thedifference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
nominal value are recognised as share premium within equity.
Associated issue costs are deducted from share premium.
iii Offsetting of financial instruments 3.12 Share-based payment Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets Equity-settled transactions and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Awards to non-employees: The fair value of the equity-settled awards has been determined at the date the goods or services are received with a corresponding Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting increase in equity share-based payment reserve.
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its interest rate Awards to employees: risks and commodity price risks, respectively.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which Employees including senior executives of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any marketFor the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: based performance conditions.
X Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm That cost is recognised in employee benefits expense, together with a corresponding increase in equity share-based payment reserve, over commitment the period in which the service and, where applicable, the performance conditions are fulfilled the vesting period.
The cumulative expense X Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The expense or credit in the statement of profit or loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
X Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of awards, but At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which it wishes to apply the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Market performance conditions are reflected within the grant date fair value.
Any other conditions attached to an award, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an immediate expensing of an award unless there are also service and or performance conditions.
124Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018125
