Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chairmans letter Corporate The Board and governance Our Board was formed in 2017, following incorporation of the Company and prior to the IPO in March 2018.
In preparation for listing, the Board reviewed and expanded its policies, where necessary, with the aim of strengthening Governance the Groups governance framework.
The Board plays a vital role in developing and maintaining the Groups culture and values by setting the tone from the top, determining the behaviours of the Group expected Chairmans letter 65 by the Board and ensuring that ethical standards are 66 Board of Directors maintained.
In doing so, the Board aims to strike the right Executive Committee 70 balance between entrepreneurial leadership and the Corporate governance report 71 prudent and effective management of risk, both of which Audit and Risk Committee report 74 are essential to maintaining a sustainable business and Nomination and Governance creating value for shareholders.
77 Committee report Diversity Health, Safety and Environment The Board understands the benefits of diversity in Committee report 78 maintaining and improving the quality of performance Remuneration Committee report 79 and all Board appointments are made against objective policy Remuneration 80 criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, Annual report on remuneration 89 inallsenses.
Directors report 95 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Board established a Board diversity policy in 2018 and for the Group financial statements 98 will implement the policy as and when vacancies arise on the Board.
Board evaluation During the year the Board undertook an internal evaluation facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Dear Shareholders, Engagement with shareholders I am pleased to welcome you to our Corporate Governance We place emphasis on active engagement with our report on behalf of the Board.
In this, we outline our governance shareholders and aim to maintain open and transparent arrangements and explain how we apply the main principles of communication.
During the year we were pleased to host the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code investors at our sites in Israel and Greece and meet with theCode issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
It is our key partners in those regions.
essential that the governance structure supports the success of the Companys strategy and ensures the creation and preservation Looking ahead, I expect 2019 to be an important year for of shareholder value, as well as benefiting other stakeholders.
Energean as the Group continues to grow and focus on the development of Karish and Tanin as well as enhancing Following the successful IPO in March 2018, the Company production in Greece.
In this context maintaining the high waspleased to be promoted to the FTSE 250 in May 2018. standards of governance established to date will be of I look forward to working with the Board, management and all critical importance.
ofour stakeholders as we become a leading independent oil and I look forward to engaging with many shareholders gas exploration and production company in the Mediterranean.
throughout the year and welcoming all shareholders toourAnnual General Meeting on 13 June 2019.
Simon Heale Chairman 17 April 2019 64Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201865 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Board of Directors An experienced Board withextensive expertise inthe energy sector, financial management, HSEandcapital markets.
Simon Heale Matthaios Mathios Rigas Panagiotis Panos Benos Andrew Bartlett Karen Simon Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent On Appointment Not Applicable Not Applicable Yes Yes Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment Commencement of Appointment July 2017 May 2017, previously the CEO of the Group May 2017, previously the CFO of the Group August 2017 September 2017 since 2007 since 2011 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership X Nomination & Governance Chair Committee Membership Committee Membership X Audit & Risk Chair X Health, Safety & Environment Not Applicable Not Applicable X Remuneration Committee X Nomination & Governance Key Skills & Experience X Remuneration Key Skills & Experience Key Skills & Experience Karen Simon holds a Masters in Key Skills & Experience Mathios Rigas holds a degree in Mining and Panos Benos is a Chartered Accountant International Management, an MBA and BA Simon Heale is a Chartered Accountant Key Skills & Experience Metallurgical Engineering from the National and holds an MSc in Shipping, Trade and in Economics & International Studies.
with a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Andrew Bartlett holds an MSc in Petroleum Technical University of Athens and an MSc Finance from Cass Business School.
Economics from Oriel College, Oxford.
Engineering from Imperial College London.
Karen has been with J. P. Morgan for over DIC degree in Petroleum Engineering from Panos has 15 years of international 34years.
Simon has significant business operations Andrew has over 30 years experience in the experience in the oil and gas sector, both in and management experience gained upstream oil and gas industry.
Her career includes senior roles in Oil & Gas, Mathios has 20 years of investment banking banking and industry, with a long track record through a diverse range of industries, Debt Capital Markets and Private Equity and private equity experience and is a of upstream financing in emerging markets.
Andrew served as the chairman and nonpreviously serving as chairman of Kaz coverage.
founding shareholder of the Group.
executive director of Azonto Energy from Minerals from May 2013 until December He was previously a director in the oil and 2013 to 2015.
Karen was the Head of Financial Sponsor 2017, as chairman of Marex Spectron from During the years 2001 to 2007 he set up, gas team in London with Standard Chartered Coverage for J. P. Morgan in both New York January 2016 until December 2018 and and was managing partner of, Capital Bank, delivering a number of award-winning He was also previously the global head and in London from 2007 to 2016, serving GulfMarine Services plc until March 2019.
Connect Venture Partners, a private project and acquisition finance deals in of Oil & Gas M&A and Project Finance for further as Global co-head including Asia.
equity fund in Greece with investments Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
Standard Chartered Bank between 2004 He also served on the boards of Carlton in innovative enterprises in IT, healthcare, and 2011.
Prior to this, Andrew worked on Prior to this, she was co-head of Debt Commodities Capital Corporate Member Prior to that Panos worked for waste management and food industries.
the trading and derivatives desk of Standard Capital Markets for EMEA and spent Limited from 2011 to 2016, Coats plc from ConocoPhillips from 2002 to 2006, where Bank in South Africa.
the first 15 years of her career in various 2011 to 2014, Morgan Advanced Materials From 1999 to 2001 Mathios was in charge he held positions in European treasury, positions in the Oil & Gas division in from 2005 to 2014, PZ Cussons from 2008 of Piraeus Banks shipping division, and North Sea economics and international Before joining the investment banking Houston and London.
to 2013 and Panmure Gordon & Co from from 1993 to 1999, he was vice president of downstream with a focus on the North Sea, industry, Andrew worked for Royal Dutch 2010 to 2011. shipping, energy & project finance at Chase Central Europe and the Middle East.
He Shell between 1981 and 2001, as a petroleum Current External Appointments Manhattan Bank.
He was formerly the commenced his career at Royal Bank of engineer and development manager, where Simon has extensive experience in senior X A Vice Chairman of Investment Banking, chairman of the board of Tyres Herco S. A. Scotland in shipping finance.
he gained extensive experience in the J. P. Morgan executive roles, including as chief executive and MAVIN S. A. in Greece.
operation of oil and gas fields.
of the London Metal Exchange from 2001 Current External Appointments X Non-Executive Director of Aker ASA to 2006, as chief operating officer of Jardine Current External Appointments Not Applicable Current External Appointments X Board Member of the non-profit Dallas Fleming Ltd from 1999 to 2001, and as Not Applicable X Non-Executive Director of Africa Oil Womens Foundation deputy managing director at Cathay Pacific Corporation Airways from 1994 to 1997.
X Non-Executive Director of Impact Oil & Gas Current External Appointments X Adviser to Helios Investment Partners LLP X Deputy Chairman of Brooge Petroleum and Gas Investment Company 66Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201867
