Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Principal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Project Execution & Production Operations Risks Financial Risks X Continuous implementation and monitoring of the The Group has a centralised Treasury function which manages Major cyber or information A cyber-attack could compromise the Groups Treasury and trading The Group is exposed to changes in currency Companys IT Security Policy, which includes measures to currency exchange, interest rate and commodity risks, with network and have a disruptive or destructive values as a result of its international operations security incident The Group is exposed to protect against cyber-attacks.
mitigations including: impact resulting in stopped production, in various foreign currencies.
The key sources of treasury and trading risks, Link to strategy: explosion or loss of life.
the risk include loan agreements denominated in X Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing.
X Currency risk including foreign exchange, the US Dollars, sales of crude oil denominated in 1 2 Any loss or theft of confidential information interest rate and commodity X Employee awareness of confidentiality through internal Regular updates and revisions of short and long term U. S. dollars, ongoing operating costs and capital could lead to loss of competitive advantage and price risk.
policies including the Groups Corporate Culture and expenditure budgets and cash flow projections, applying expenditures incurred in EUR, USD and to a intellectual property and reputational damage.
Business Ethics policy and awareness training.
15% sensitivity on EUR: USD movements Link to strategy: lesser extent GBP and NOK.
X Control of disclosures and protection of any disclosed Short term EUR: USD hedging for fixed inelastic EUR 4 The Group is exposed to commodity prices in confidential information in third party contracts.
relation to its sales and revenues under its crude Financial Risks Negotiation of large capital expenditure commitments oil and gas sales contracts, which are subject and contractual obligations in USD denominations.
During to variable market factors.
A decrease in these X All loans are project based, not corporate loans, that have Compliance with Financial Under the terms of the Reserve Based Lending 2018, the Group exercised the option under the Technip commodity prices could significantly impact the been sized and structured on conservative economic, RBL Senior Facility Agreement and the Covenants EPCIC contract to fix the non USD component of the Groups cash flows and results.
costand production assumptions according to bank Subordinated Facility Agreement and the payment plan in USD for the period 2019 - 2021.
The Group has secured loan The Group is exposed to changes in interest lending policies.
Karish-Tanin Project Financing, the Group agreements and is subject to All Group loans are USD denominated.
rates as a result of its various financings the must comply with a number of covenants X Regular monitoring of financial covenants on an actual restrictive debt covenants and RBL Senior Facility and the Subordinated Facility including financial maintenance covenants and All crude sales and gas contracts are denominated in USD.
and forecast basis as part of the monthly reporting to security arrangements that and the Karish-Tanin Project Financing.
The key restrictions on, among other matters, dividends management and the Board.
X Interest Rate Risk may limit its ability to finance source of risk is the floating interest rate charged and other distributions, cash movements, capital its future operations and capital X Adherence to the Facility Compliance Calendar, which The Group actively monitors its interest rate exposure and under each of the loan agreements determined expenditure, additional future borrowings and needs and to pursue business outlines covenant requirements, due dates and the receives regular market updates from its lending banks.
An increase in the floating rate indebtedness, and disposals and acquisitions.
could adversely impact the Groups cashflow The breach of any of these covenants could Interest rates under bank borrowings are fixed in advance Breach of financial covenants and results.
result in part of the loan amounts becoming for a period of at least 3 months may lead to default and or unavailable or to an event of default, in which The Group may hedge a portion of its floating rate debt in liquidity risk.
case all amounts owed to the lenders would be order to hold a mix of both fixed and floating rate exposure Link to strategy: due and payable immediately.
X Commodity price risk 4 The Group actively monitors oil price movements and may hedge part of its production to protect the downside while maintaining access to upside and to ensure availability of cashflows for re-investment and debt-service.
All Karish-Tanin gas contracts are based on pricing formulas which include floor prices: this ensures a minimum price for gas sales whatever the market conditions or pricing formulas outcome.
The Groups debt facilities have been sized and structured on conservative oil and gas price assumptions compared to prevailing market prices.
Liquidity risk and X At least monthly monitoring of 6 - 18 month cash flow Lack of necessary liquidity and access to projections under a number of reasonable worst case funding may materially impact the Groups plans restrictedfunding assumptions, which include downside sensitivities on oil to develop its existing assets, meet production The Group might not have price, cost and production levels.
targets and execute its strategic growth plan.
adequate liquidity and or X Optimisation of debt capital structure.
access to the necessary funding sources to meet its X Strong long term relationship with major international and minimum opex, capex and local financial institutions.
financing commitments X The Karish-Tanin development has secured funding to First as wellas its growth and Gas by a combination of committed equity funding and the expansion plans.
Link to strategy: X Epsilon development has secured funding to First Oil by a combination of ongoing operating cash flow from the 4 Prinos field and the RBL Facility.
X Major turnkey EPCIC contracts for both Karish-Tanin and Epsilon development to minimise the risk of cost overruns and ensure adequate liquidated damages are payable in case of project execution delays.
60Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201861 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Viability statement iii.
both the Karish and Epsilon Project will be on-stream by 2021 Principal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation The Directors have assessed the which means the assessment period contains all material capital Financial Risks viability of the Group over the period to investments which will in turn significantly enhance the Groups X Crude Oil Offtake Agreement Counterparty Risk All of the Groups production of crude oil from ability to generate free cash flow.
December 2021, taking account of the the Prinos basin is currently sold to a single In Q1 2018, the crude oil offtake agreement with BP was The Group may be exposed to buyer, BP, under a long-term offtake agreement.
extended to 2025 on the same terms.
Based on these factors, the Board consider that an assessment delayed payment, counterparty Groups current position and the potential The Group is consequently reliant on BP for default or suspension or period up to 31 December 2021 appropriately reflects the The Group has built a strong relationship with BP and the substantially all of its revenue.
impact of the principal risks documented termination of sales.
contractual terms have been applied since 2013 without underlying prospects and viability of the Group, and the period over If the offtake agreement with BP was disputes and or payment defaults and or lifting delays.
Link to strategy: which the principal risks are reviewed.
terminated, the Group would need to negotiate Focus on maintaining delivery of production.
4 and enter into a new offtake contract.
During In order to make an assessment of the Groups viability, the Board BP is an investment grade Acredit rated company any such negotiations, the Group might not The Board conducted the review for the purposes of the Viability has made a detailed assessment of the Groups principal risks, and with minimal risk of being unable to meet its lifting and be able to sell any of its oil from the Prinos Statement over this period for the following reasons: payment obligations under the Prinos offtake agreement.
the potential implications these risks would have on the Groups basin, which would have an adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, X Gas Sale and Purchase Contacts liquidity and its business model over the assessment period.
This i. the Groups Karish Field is expected to be on stream during the financial condition and or prospects.
assessment included monthly cash flow analysis and the Board also The Group has secured 4.6bcm yr for a weighted average first quarter of 2021 delivering long-term credible and predictable The Group will be dependent on its purchasers tenor of 16 years at an average of 75% take-or-pay considered a number of sensitivity scenarios, including combinations cash flow based on signed gas contracts with take or pay provision under the Gas Sale and Purchase Contracts for contract terms.
thereof, together with associated supporting analysis provided by the and floor prices: its Karish-Tanin Project for regular and prompt The Group has centred its gas offtake contracts on the Groups finance team.
The Karish Project development expenditure in payment once it starts producing in 2021.
The largest private industrial and IPPs in Israel to ensure Israel is funded by a dedicated Project Finance Facility and therefore ii.
the current contractual maturity of the Groups Project Finance Group is therefore exposed to a risk of default by credit worthiness.
we have focused the sensitivity scenarios on the Greek operations these purchasers.
In the event of such default, Facility for the Karish Field is December 2021.
The Greek Reserve There is a pipeline of opportunities for replacement the Group might be required to find alternative vis--vis production and funding risks.
Based Lending Facility is also expected to be refinanced within the offtakers power plants, increasing market, reduction of purchasers at less favourable terms.
three-year horizon, as such the three-year period is largely aligned coal-generation.
A summary of the key assumptions, aligned to the Groups principal with Energeans funding cycle: and risks, and sensitivity analysis can be found below.
Governance and Compliance Risks Principal Risks Base Case Assumptions Sensitivity Scenarios X Strong oversight and leadership from the Executive Fraud, bribery and The Group is exposed to bribery and corruption Production - to achieve target production guidance and Implementation of the drilling programme in Greece Implementation of the drilling programme in Greece Management and the Board.
risk through its business operations.
corruption continue ongoing development during 2019 and 2020, based on the latest NSAI 2P during 2019 and 2020, however with ca.
10% less X Robust framework of controls to monitor all payment Any instances of non-compliance with The Group has an obligation to production profile adjusted for actual production YTD production than the latest NSAI report approvals.
applicable laws and regulations, including those comply with fraud, anti-bribery, Finance to continue our ongoing development Increase in available funding by circa USD50m by No funding available for Greece due to lack of bank laws around fraud, anti-bribery, anti-corruption anti-corruption and anti-money X Compliance with governance policies, including the Groups uninterrupted, pursue more growth opportunities in the upsizing refinancing the Greek RBL market liquidity appetite or access to capital resulting and anti-money laundering, could damage the laundering laws and violations Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy, which sets out the region as well as be able to withstand any unexpected ina delay to the drilling campaign in Greece.
Refinance of USD1.275bn Project Finance at maturity reputation of the Group.
In addition, these could of these laws expose the Group Groups responsibilities, as well as those of its employees, in oil price and or production drops in December 2021 post First Gas with a long term loan result in litigation, regulatory action and fines and or its employees to observing and upholding its position on bribery.
The policy or bond which could have a material adverse impact on criminal ramifications.
also provides information and guidance to those working The Project Finance is available, first drawdown our cash flows and the financial condition of for the Group on how to recognise and deal with bribery and Link to strategy: occurred in Q1 2019 the Group corruption issues.
Market and Treasury to withstand macro Oil price based on Group planning assumption of $65 Sensitivity to oil price of $55 bbl real plus discount to 1 2 3 4 X Anti-Bribery training of Group personnel.
environment, oil price, FX and Interest Rate volatility bbl real plus discount to Brent Brent, oil price downside having the most significant impact versus IR or FX rate volatility.
X Compliance with the Groups Corporate Culture and Business FX rate for costs in EUR of 1 : $1.15 Ethics Policy which includes the Groups policy of conducting IR based on floating USD LIBOR set by the Lending all its business in an honest and ethical manner and in banks at each interest rate period under the Loans compliance with all applicable laws, including but not limited to all applicable local laws where the Group operates and the UK's Bribery Act 2010.
Under such sensitivity scenarios, the Board has considered the availability and likelihood of mitigating factors such as hedging, additional funding options and further rationalisation of our cost base, including cuts to discretionary capital expenditure.
Based on the results of the analysis the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
62Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201863
