Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Review of operations Building a balanced portfolio Following handover, INGL will be responsible for the operation and 2018 was a significant year in Energeansdevelopment.
Our focus was on Karish and Tanin maintenance of this part of the infrastructure and Energean will not progressing Karish and Tanin through FID and optimising cash flows in our In Israel, we made major advances in the development of the Karish incur any charges or tariffs for use of the infrastructure.
Energeans and Tanin gas fields, acquired from Delek Energy and Avner in 2016. collaboration with INGL demonstrates the Israeli governments PrinosLicence Area.
support and commitment to the Karish and Tanin project.
To fast-track the development of Karish to produce first gas in 2021, Energean contracted TechnipFMC to design, procure, construct, Also in December 2018, Energean signed a further gas sales install and commission all facilities from the wellhead to the entry agreement with I. P. M. Beer Tuvia Ltd. IPM to supply an estimated point of the Israeli gas grid.
This approach minimises interfaces and 5.5 bcm of gas from its Karish and Tanin FPSO over a period of hence execution risk for the Group and its shareholders.
The contract is subject to necessary approvals and is Operational achievements in 2018 contingent on the results of the 2019 drilling programme.
In parallel with preparing the FDP, approved by the Israeli authorities Corporate Israel Greece in August 2017, and ahead of FID, we secured gas supply contracts In addition to the above, we have been gradually extending our team X Increased net 2P reserves to X Took Final Investment Decision for the X Delivered production of 4,053 bopd for around 4.2 bcm per year for 16 years with Israeli gas buyers.
in Israel and recruiting local staff to deliver the in-country scope and 347MMboe from 51 MMboe at the flagship Karish and Tanin project from the Prinos Area, resulting in a This secured $12 billion of revenues and firmly underpinned the to manage all local interfaces and stakeholders.
point of Listing 56% year-on-year increase in revenues projectseconomics.
X Signed a lump-sum EPCIC with X Raised $460 million through Premium TechnipFMC, mitigating many of the X Grew production from the Prinos Area In January 2018, Energean announced it had selected Stena Drilling London Stock Exchange IPO risks that shareholders would usually for a sixth consecutive quarter as its preferred drilling contractor, following a competitive tendering be exposed to in a company executing X Arranged $1,275 million of project X Reduced production costs to process.
The Stena DrillMAX was later selected as the rig to be a large-scale E&P project financing for Karish and Tanin $18 bbl, a 29% year-on-year reduction, deployed.
One exploration well and three development wells will be X Signed Gas Sales and Purchase and estimated a further reduction to X Started trading on the Tel Aviv drilled at Karish in 2019, and commenced in March with the spud Gas as a key transition fuel Agreements for 4.6 bcm yr, securing between $14 and $17 bbl in 2019 Stock Exchange TASE through a of Karish North.
Drilling services will be provided by Halliburton and $13 billion of future revenues and secondary listing.
Post-period end, X Achieved production of more than well engineering by Lloyds Register.
With Israeli natural gas demand growing and the IEC underpinning the economics of our our shares have entered the Tel Aviv 1,000 bopd from the Prinos North focused on reducing coal generation post 2017, Energean is gas project 35 Index, which is composed of the 35 Extended Reach Well In March 2018, we raised $1.275 billion of project financing and committed to gas as a key transition fuel.
largest companies listed on the TASE X Achieved first steel cut on the $460 million of equity through our London IPO, securing the X Successfully drilled the Epsilon by market capitalisation Energean Power hull November 2018 financing for the Karish development.
Extended Reach Well which came into Energeans $1.6 billion investment in the gas industry allows and topsides December 2018, a key X No environmental incidents occurred production post-period end Israel to shut down its first four coal-fired power plants in In April 2018, Energean awarded a two-year contract to Wood, milestone in demonstrating that the in 2018: all environmental KPIs within Hadera and by 2021 it is estimated that more than 80% of X Completed drilling of the first vertical involving the preparation of systems and procedures to ensure project is on track to deliver first gas in expected range.
Energeans production will come from gas.
well into the Epsilon reservoir, which safety and efficiency in all aspects of the pre-operation period.
A 1Q 2021 indicated reserve upside in the Epsilon second contract was subsequently awarded in the second half of X Energean Israel signed an MoU with Main and Deep reservoirs.
the year to provide operations and maintenance manpower and INGL for the transfer and operatorship specialist engineering services for a period of five years.
of the onshore section of the Karish and Tanin infrastructure and the nearIn November 2018, first steel was cut on the Energean Power FPSO shore section of pipeline extending to at the COSCO Yard in China, and in December 2018 first steel was approximately 10km offshore, which cut on the topsides at the Sembcorp Admiralty Yard in Singapore.
will result in approximately $98million Both of these events signified key milestones towards the delivery of cash inflow between now and of first gas from the project in 1Q 2021. firstgas In December 2018, Energean Israel signed a Memorandum of X Identified 7.5 Tcf 212 bcm of gross Understanding MoU with Israel Natural Gas Line INGL that will prospective resources over the Karish result in approximately $98 million of cash inflow for Energean and Tanin leases and the five new Israel between now and first gas.
This cash inflow was not blocks awarded in December 2017, with accounted for in our initial project economics and demonstrates a high geological probability of success Energeans intention to create value for shareholders at every X Committed to the Karish North opportunity.
The MoU covers the onshore section of the Karish and exploration well, which commenced Tanin infrastructure and the near-shore section of pipeline extending March 2019, targeting 1.3 Tcf to approximately 10km offshore.
It is intended that the handover to 36.7bcm and 16.4 MMbbls of INGL will become effective shortly after the delivery of first gas from grossrecoverable prospective the Karish field in 1Q 2021. resource Energean 70%.
Karish North commenced drilling in March2019.
36Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201837 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Review of operations continued Energean commenced operations on the Epsilon Lamda Platform During 2018, Energean commenced the drilling of an Extended Prinos operations development during 2018.
Epsilon is an 18.4 MMbbl satellite Reach Well from the Prinos Alpha platform into the Epsilon satellite Energean delivered 2018 full year production of 4,053 bopd.
Fourth development that will be tied back to the Prinos complex, utilising accumulation, accelerating first oil from the field by nearly one year.
quarter production averaged 4,573 bopd, representing the sixth spare capacity to benefit from the high level of operating leverage in successive quarter of production growth from the Prinos Area, the system.
The development will utilise a minimum manned facility Exploration activities agreat result that demonstrates the effectiveness of our ongoing with 15 well slots, controlled remotely from Prinos Delta.
GSP was 2018 was a year of early stage exploration activities, primarily investment programme.
Ownership of the infrastructure and facilities selected as turnkey contractor for construction of all facilities focused on seismic planning across the portfolio and specific in the Prinos Area provides a relatively fixed cost base and therefore and drilling of three initial vertical wells using the GSP Jupiter rig.
planning for the Karish North well.
We also commissioned an NSAI high operational leverage, which allowed us to deliver a 29% reduction Afurther five wells are envisaged to be required to fully recover all report on our Israeli acreage in August 2018, which identified 7.5 in unit cost of production in 2018, from $24.7 bbl to $17.6 bbl.
Tcf 212 bcm and 101 MMbbls of gross prospective resources across our Karish and Tanin leases and the five exploration licences During 2019, Energean expects production to average between The first vertical well of the Epsilon Platform development, EL-1, awarded as part of the 2017 bid round.
The range in our guidance is driven by encountered the previously discovered Epsilon A reservoir.
The well assumptions on performance of the Epsilon Extended Reach Well, found a marginally thicker gross section of 98m with 40 - 45m of Momentum is picking up in 2019 with the shooting and early stage timing and performance of 2019 wells, workovers, and historic net pay in the Epsilon A reservoir as compared to the gross and interpretation of seismic across the portfolio and the spudding of performance decline of the existing well stock.
Energean continues net thicknesses of 80m and 40m encountered in past wells.
EL-1 our first exploration well, Karish North.
to target production of more than 10,000 bopd in 2021, at which also penetrated the deeper Epsilon reservoir, discovering a zone pointoperating costs are expected to fall to less than $10 bbl.
of approximately 82m thickness and 30 - 35m net pay, which was ahead of expectations.
A third zone, the Dolomitic Zone, has also been penetrated, showing some additional hydrocarbon potential across the 140m drilled.
38Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201839 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial review Strong financial discipline Sales, general and administrative SG&A expenses Financial results summary Energean incurred SG&A costs of $12.1 million in 2018.
2018 2017 This represents an 89% increase on the previous year $m $m Change 2017: $6.4 million and is due to the additional staffing and Av.
daily working interest production kboed 4.1 2.8 46.4% administrative costs associated with the rapid growth of the Sales revenue $m 90.3 57.8 56.4% Groups portfolio, the efforts associated with developing the projects, and additional requirements associated with being Realised oil price $ boe 60.3 46.7 29.1% a Premium Listed entity.
Cost of oil production $m 26.0 25.3 2.8% Cost of production per barrel $ boe 17.6 24.7 28.9 % For the full year 2019 Energean expects SG&A costs to be Administrative & selling expenses $m 12.1 6.4 88.3% $15 million, reflecting the additional costs associated with a full year of being listed on the LSE and the TASE, and the continued Adjusted EBITDAX $m 52.4 20.7 153.6% increase in the size of the business.
Cash flow from operating activities $m 62.7 29.1 115.4% Capital expenditure $m 494.6 67.6 631.3% Other income Panos Benos Cash capital expenditure $m 293.6 54.0 443.6% Other income of $7.8 million 2017: $6.4 million expense includes Chief Financial Officer Net debt cash $m 75.6 75.6 200 % a reversal of a provision for the Greek tax and transfer pricing penalties relating to fiscal years 2006 - 2011, which were the subject Net debt equity % 7.0% 26.2% 126.5 % Revenue, production and commodity prices of an appeal that was ruled in Energeans favour in July 2018.
Working interest production from Greece averaged 4,053 boepd, Adjusted EBITDAX an increase of 45% for the period 2017: 2,803 boepd.
The increase Finance costs Adjusted EBITDAX is a non-IFRS measure used by the Group to measure business performance.
It is calculated as profit or loss for the in production is due to continued reservoir management of Financing costs for the period were $13.5 million 2017: $22.9 million, period, adjusted for discontinued operations, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, other income and expenses including the impact asphaltene precipitation and progress through the development and are composed mainly of $15.1 million of interest expenses on of derivative financial instruments and foreign exchange, net finance costs and exploration costs.
The Group presents adjusted EBITDAX drilling programme.
the RBL and project finance facilities plus $5.7 million of interest as it is used in assessing the Groups growth and operational efficiencies, because it illustrates the underlying performance of the Groups expenses on long term payables representing payments to seller on business by excluding items not considered by management to reflect the underlying operations of the Group.
Prinos production is sold at a $6.4 bbl discount to Urals Med blend, Karish and Tanin, offset by capitalised interest of $9.3 million.
The adjusted for final cargo API.
Revenues in 2018 benefited from both decrease compared to the previous period is associated with the increased volumes and realised prices.
2018 2017 conversion of a shareholder loan to preference shares during 2017.
$m $m Cost of production Adjusted EBITDAX 52.4 20.7 Derivative financial instruments Cost of oil production is a non-IFRS measure that is used by the Reconciliation to profit loss : The gain on derivative of $96.7 million is a result of the valuation Group as a useful indicator of the Groups underlying cash costs to Depreciation and amortisation 34.3 18.0 of a derivative financial instrument, measured at fair value at the produce hydrocarbons.
The Group uses the measure to compare end of each reporting date, which related to Energean Israel Limited Exploration and evaluation expense 2.1 10.0 operational performance period to period, to monitor costs and to Class B Shares that the Group had a contingent commitment to Other income expense 7.8 6.4 assess operational efficiency.
Cost of oil production is calculated acquire in the event of an exit IPO or sale.
The methodology used as cost of sales, adjusted for depreciation and hydrocarbon Finance expenses 13.5 22.9 to value the shareholding multiplied the estimated probability of inventory movements.
Finance income 1.7 0.0 an exit event IPO or sale by the estimated difference between the consideration payable and the estimated value of the B shares.
Gain on derivative 96.7 25.8 The spare processing capacity in the Prinos infrastructure provides The gain recognised in 2018 FY 2017: $25.8 million reflects the a high level of operational leverage.
This has resulted in a 29.1% Net foreign exchange 23.5 36.2 increase in probability of an exit event to 100% when Energean reduction in per barrel production costs, from $24.7 bbl in 2017 to Taxation income expense 15.5 14.1 listed on the London Stock Exchange on 21 March 2018.
As production grows, Energean expects operating Profit loss from discontinued operations 1.4 execution on the contingent commitment the derivative financial costs to continue to fall, reaching less than $10 bbl if the NSAI 2P asset was derecognised and transferred to the cost of investment Income for the year 100.8 9.9 production profile were to be achieved.
Energean expects 2019 in Energean Israel Limited.
Operating cash flow Crude oil hedging Depreciation Cash from operations before movements in working capital was $53.9 million, representing a 197% increase on the comparable period Energean has no outstanding crude oil hedges.
After adjusting for working capital movements, cash from operations was $62.7 million, a 115% increase on the Depreciation increased by 91% to $34.3 million 2017: $18.0 million comparable period 2017: $29.1 million.
due to increased production and capital expenditure invested Taxation in Greece.
Energean recorded tax income of $15.5 million in 2018 2017: $14.1 million tax expense primarily associated with an increased recognition of a deferred tax asset.
40Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201841 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Financial review continued In March 2018, Energean raised $460.0 million through its Premium Listing.
Net of cash transaction costs of $20.1 million this contributed Capital expenditure $439.9 million of cash.
Capital expenditure is a useful indicator of the Groups organic expenditure on oil and gas assets and exploration and appraisal assets incurred during a period.
Capital expenditure is defined as additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible exploration and EBRD facility agreements evaluation assets excluding decommissioning asset additions, disposal and capitalised depreciation, less capitalised borrowing cost.
On 30 January 2018, the Groups existing EBRD Senior Facility Agreement was amended and restated pursuant to the RBL Senior Facility Agreement.
The RBL Senior Facility Agreement comprises two facilities i a facility of up to $105 million with EBRD and the Black Sea 2018 2017 Trade and Development Bank as lenders: and ii a $75 million facility pursuant to which the Export-Import Bank of Romania Eximbank SA $m $m and Banca Comerciala Intesa Sanpaolo Romania S. A. with 95% insurance cover from the Romanian ECA are lenders.
Proceeds from the Additions to property, plant and equipment 497.7 65.7 Romanian Club Facility will finance exclusively 85% of the value attributable to goods and services under the GSP EPCIC.
Interest is charged on the $105 million component of the loan at LIBOR 4.9% and on the $75 million Romanian facility at LIBOR 3%.
Additions to intangible exploration and evaluation assets 6.2 3.2 Less Karish-Tanin project finance Capitalised borrowing costs 9.2 1.3 In 1H 2018 Energean secured $1,275 million of senior secured project finance for its Karish-Tanin project.
The loan is held at the Energean Total 494.6 67.6 Israel Limited level Energean 70%.
Once drawn, interest is to be charged at LIBOR 3.75% over months 1 - 12, LIBOR 4.00% over months 13 - 24, LIBOR 4.25% over months 25 - 36 and LIBOR 4.75% over months 37 - 45.
The facility matures in December 2021 and has a Capital expenditure was $494.6 million, of which $396.5 million was invested in Israel, $97.2 million in Greece and $1.3 million in other bullet repayment on maturity.
There is a commitment fee of 30% of the applicable margin.
Energean estimates that the weighted average areas.
2018 capex does not include the Karish acquisition and development cost of $86.0 million, which was accrued pre consolidation applicable interest rate over the life of the facility will be 4.0%.
Liquidity risk management and going concern Cash capital expenditure in 2018 was $293.6 million FY 2017: $54.0 million.
The Groups forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and has sufficient financial headroom for the next 12 months.
An important factor for determining that the going concern basis remains appropriate is the Groups ability to raise Energean expects consolidated capital expenditure in 2019 to be $825 - 860 million, the break-down of which is provided in the table below.
necessary funding as and when needed.
In 2018, the Group successfully became a Premium Listed company on the London Stock Exchange, which raised $460 million gross proceeds.
Furthermore, the Groups liquidity position was significantly improved by the amendment entered Israel Greece Montenegro New business Total into on 30 January 2018 of the Groups existing EBRD Senior Facility agreement, which increased this facility from US$75 million to US$180 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million million.
In addition, the Group entered into a US$1.275 billion Senior Credit Facility agreement, which is being used to fund the Karish and Tanin Exploration 30 - 40 5 - 10 5 5 45 - 60 development costs.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group made its first drawdown under this facility.
Development 640 - 650 140 - 150 780 - 800 Total 670 - 690 145 - 160 5 5 825 - 860 Brexit Energean has considered the potential impact of Brexit and believes that its business would not be materially affected by Brexit either with Goodwill or without a deal.
Energean has recorded $75.8 million of goodwill 2017: $ nil in respect of the acquisition of Energean Israel Limited.
In accordance with IAS 12, Energean is required to recognise a deferred tax liability in relation to the forward liability assumed, the provision for which is calculated Events since 31 December 2018 as the tax rate of Israel 23% multiplied by the difference between the assigned fair value and the tax bases of assets acquired.
The There has not been any event since 31 December 2018 that has resulted in a material impact on the year-end results.
offsetting accounting entry to this is goodwill.
None of this goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes.
Non-IFRS measures Net cash debt and gearing ratio The Group uses certain measures of performance that are not specifically defined under IFRS or other generally accepted accounting Net debt is defined as the Groups total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Management believes that net debt is a useful indicator principles.
These non-IFRS measures include adjusted EBITDAX, cost of oil production, capital expenditure, cash capex, net debt and of the Groups indebtedness, financial flexibility and capital structure because it indicates the level of borrowings after taking account of any gearing ratio and are explained above.
cash and cash equivalents that could be used to reduce borrowings.
The Group defines capital as total equity and calculates the gearing ratio as net debt divided by capital.
Business combination On 27 March 2018, the Group, following a FID in respect of the Karish and Tanin assets, subscribed for additional shares in Energean Israel Net debt reconciliation for an aggregate consideration of US$266.7 million, payable in cash, increasing its shareholding in Energean Israel to 70% from 50% as 2018 2017 Kerogen Capital did not participate in the new share issuance.
Upon completion of this subscription, the Group holds 70% of the shares $m $m inEnergean Israel, with Kerogen holding the remaining 30%.
Following the above, Energean Israel is consolidated inEnergeans accounts.
EBRD facility $200m 144.3 91.3 Israel project finance facility $1,275m Total borrowings 144.3 91.3 Cash and cash equivalents 219.8 15.7 Total net debt cash 75.6 75.6 Capital 1,087.8 289.0 Gearing ratio 7.0% 26.1% 42Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201843 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Our approach Responsibility lies at the heart of our business Our goal is to integrate sustainability thoroughly into our operations Energean is committed to adopting and maximise our value creation.
Our approach to CSR a responsible, sustainable business Corporate governance Our objective is to generate sustainable prosperity through model in order to create shared longWe are committed to upholding the highest standards of integrity and corporate governance practices in order to maintain our business operations.
excellence in our daily operations, and to promote confidence in our governance systems.
term value for all our stakeholders.
We are therefore committed to conducting our operations We aim to conduct our business in an open, honest and ethical manner.
Our aim is therefore to ensure that responsibly, which means supporting local communities and caring for the environment, as well as looking after the health andsafety of sustainable development and corporate Energean will become a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2019, supporting its corporate governance principles on human our employees.
rights, anti-corruption, environmental protection and better labour practices.
responsibility are at the centre of our We have established frequent communication with our operations and governance.
We focus our CSR activities in the following key impact areas: stakeholdersin order to be able to better understand their perspectives, taking initiatives to address their concerns and vital We intend to go beyond adherence to compliance requirements needs.
We have initiated sponsorships to address ad hoc needs by adopting the highest international business standards and within local communities, promoting social welfare and protecting by creating an operational framework that allows us to integrate our social licence to operate.
CSR policy In our business, we aim to make a positive contribution to society In addition to the expectations of stakeholders, CSR is a fundamental whilst minimising the cost to the environment.
Corporate guiding principle of how we run our business.
Our CSR policy is Governance deeply rooted in our corporate values, and is guided by international We: standards and global initiatives, as well as industry best practice.
X Build strong and productive relationships with our investors, As our business grows, We are focused on customers, partners and suppliers, based on understanding, Our Chief Executive is accountable for CSR, supported by our CSR so does our responsibility attracting, developing trust, transparency and accountability Team.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 4 to the local communities 1 and retaining the best approving the CSR strategy and for monitoring our progress in X Manage risk more effectively by strengthening our procedures wherewe operate.
We people and creating an Community achieving sustainability objectives, through regular performance Employees and processes work hard to support our environment where our relations Corporate reviews and reporting.
In this, it is also supported by the Board local communities and employees can fulfil X Engage our employees through a culture of development, social HSECommittee.
work with them tomake a theirtrue potential.
collaboration, trustand safety responsibility real difference.
X Improve our performance by maintaining the integrity of Read more on All our business units are accountable for developing and policy ourassets, our environment and our communities wherever Read more on pages 46 - 47 implementing the CSR strategy and, where appropriate, progress weoperate pages 52 - 55 against our targets is independently assessed.
X Earn trust amongst our stakeholders to sustain our reputation inthe long term.
3 2 X Foster a culture of environmental stewardship across our value Environment Health chain, by monitoring and mitigating our environmental footprint & Safety X Respect the communities with whom, and the environment within which, we work.
We are committed to The health and safety of our conducting our business in an workforce remains our top environmentally responsible priority.
We invest in safety way by mitigating risks and training and strive to meet the minimising the impact of our most stringent international operations on the natural standards.
promote a safety culture where zero harm is our ultimate aim.
Read more on pages 50 - 51 Read more on pages 48 - 49 44Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201845 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Employees Excellence through our people Inclusivity and diversity Values Energean understands that its people We create a fair and inclusive environment to attract the best people.
We want to promote a culture of fairness and equality in our working are central to ensuring it achieves its We are proud of our diverse workforce, with its diversity of gender, environment and amongst our workforce, without discrimination.
Our values of variety of nationalities and broad spectrum of ages.
We strive to We require all employees and contractors to abide by Energeans create and develop a working environment where everyone can Code of Conduct.
Energean is committed to protecting and responsibility, excellence, integrity and perform to the highest standards.
Our guiding principle is that all advancing Human Rights as defined in the Universal Declaration of employees have the ability to learn and develop.
We therefore seek Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labour commitment, coupled with caring for to assist them in reaching their full potential, andthus enable the Organizations conventions on labour.
We uphold and promote the environment and engaging with local business to maximise its chances of success.
Human Rights within our sphere of influence.
communities, are key to achieving our During 2018, Energean established an Executive Committee, which Our employees and contractors come from 28 throughout the success in a sustainable manner.
We also has 40% female representation.
Our senior management team has world.
We celebrated this inclusivity on 21 March this year, when we 25% female representation.
supported the UN sponsored International Day for the Elimination understand that inclusivity and diversity of Racial Discrimination.
As at 31 December 2018, Energean had 416 employees, located in in our workforce will strengthen our six countries.
capabilities and broaden our horizons.
Three hundred and seventy of our employees are located in Greece, 90% of them in Kavala, and contributing to our onshore and offshore operations, which makes Energean one of the largest employers in the local area.
Our other employees are located in our offices in the UK, Israel, Montenegro, Egypt and Cyprus, as shown below.
Employees per country 3 Cyprus Montenegro 13 19 Egypt UK 6 5 Israel Greece 370 Employees by age 3 Under 30 13 19 Between 31 and 50 6 5 51 or over 370 46Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201847 DO Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Health and safety Setting and maintaining apositive safety culture Total man-hours worked Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy Operational framework and control Energean is committed to protecting 2016 2017 2018 The Board has approved a Corporate Major Accident Prevention We develop, implement, monitor and review procedures and the health and safety of all individuals policy CMAPP, recognising: instructions for safe operation, enabling our adaptation to changes Employees 570,410 778,008 712,988 affected by its corporate activities, in operations, regulations, industry standards and technology.
The Contractors 281,640 161,280 1,108,606 X its responsibility to comply with the Offshore Safety Directive main components of this framework are: including employees, contractors Personnel total 852,050 939,288 1,821,594 and with the Seveso Directive: X Pre-shift briefings and shift handovers andthegeneral public.
X that the nature of Energeans offshore oil and gas operations 2 017 includes employees man-hours worked during the plant general may give rise to major accidents: X Toolbox talks turn-around activities and for two additional support vessels We have established a comprehensive and integrated Health X its responsibility to control the risks of major accidents and to X Site HSE inspections and audits 2 018 includes contractors man-hours in all construction yards related to and Safety Management System 'H&S MS' aligned with continuously improve these controls in line with advances in Energean projects X Incident reporting and investigation the requirements of international standards and European technology and good oilfield practices: and X Task risk assessments safetydirectives.
Total LTI X its commitment as laid out in the Energean Code of Conduct X HSE meetings 2016 2017 2018 to achieve high standards of HSE performance and to make We are committed to the implementation, maintenance and X Permit to Work system available all necessary resources to achieve these goals.
Employees 2 3 2 continual improvement of our H&S MS and aim to achieve X Emergency response accreditation for international safety standards and best practices.
Contractors 0 0 0 Energean controls risks of major accidents arising from its onshore X Safety inductions.
Personnel total 2 3 2 and offshore oil and gas operations so far as is reasonably practicable, Our H&S MS is based on tried and tested, internationally recognised ensuring that such risks are within the acceptable or tolerable best practices in managing health and safety risks in the E&P Occupational health Lost Time Injuries classification under ALARP As Low As Reasonably Practicable.
industry, structured around a classic  cycle.
We take all necessary steps to ensure the health of our employees LTIF and contractors.
An annual health programme is implemented Stop work policy for all employees, which includes biochemical analysis, physical 2016 2017 2018 PLAN Any person employed or contracted by Energean may invoke the examinations, and heart and lung screenings.
All employees and Employees 3.51 3.86 2.81 stop work policy if they feel that any employee, a Group asset or contractors hold medical certificates relevant to the requirements of the local environment is at risk.
There shall be no blame put on any Contractors 0 0 0 their position.
Private health insurance is provided to all employees, employee calling for a stop work order in good faith even if, upon Personnel total 2.35 3.19 1.10 HSE Policies except in Israel where public health services are of a high standard.
investigation, the stop work order proves to be unnecessary.
LTI Frequency: The number of lost time injuries fatalities LTIs per million Leadership and commitment hours worked HSE leadership and accountability for H&S starts with the CEO who HSE Standards TRIR takes all necessary steps to ensure that the highest possible level of health and safety performance is achieved within the Company.
We 2016 2017 2018 regard health and safety as a line responsibility and an integral part Key metrics monitored Employees 8.77 10.28 2.81 of the duties of all personnel.
X Total man-hours worked Contractors 3.55 0 2.71 HSE Requirements Personnel total 7.04 8.52 2.74 Legal compliance X Number of Lost Time Injuries LTI Compliance with all applicable health and safety legislation and X Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF Total Recordable Injury Rate: The number of recordable injuries fatalities LTIs regulations is a fundamental requirement of the Energean H&S X Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR restricted work day cases medical treatment cases per million MS. All work carried out at our company offices and premises, and HSE Plans, Procedures hoursworked X Fatal Accident Rate FAR all work activities undertaken at project locations and operational and Practices sites, is carried out in accordance with applicable local laws and FAR European regulations.
2016 2017 2018 ASSESS Employees 0 0 0 Competence management and training Contractors 0 0 0 Energean maintains an ongoing competence and assurance management scheme, and provides appropriate HSE training to Personnel total 0 0 0 By implementing this structure we seek to ensure that we: allemployees.
Formal H&S training is provided to all employees X Understand all hazards associated with our operations Fatal Accident Rate: The number of fatalities per 100 million hours worked either annually, or every 2 - 3 years, depending on the specific X Undertake activities to manage those hazards and minimise training required.
therisk levels HSE Assurance in the Supply Chain X Measure the effectiveness of our HSE performance Energean applies a systematic process for the selection and X Adjust our plans and procedures in response to management of suppliers and contractors, from the pre-qualification thoseassessments.
stage at the outset of this process to the monitoring and audit of HSE performance during the provision of supplies, work and or services.
48Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201849 ADJUST Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Environment Creating a sustainable environment Air quality Water recycling and reuse The environment is a key concern for To ensure we meet all our environmental objectives, we are We recognise the importance of global water resources to the Key metrics monitored Energean.
We understand the impact continuously monitoring air quality.
In the wider area of Thassosand environment, as well as water's social, economic and political X Greenhouse gas emissions of our activities upon the environment.
Kavala, 12 stations monitor the total sulphation of theatmosphere on implications.
We are reducing the impact of our operations X Specific direct indirect emissions a monthly basis, and a central environmental station monitors H S, uponwater resources by recycling and reusing: 2 We are therefore working continually SO and HC levels and meteorological parameters wind speed and X Specific energy consumption 2 X water from production direction, ambient temperature, andrelative humidity.
to improve our Environmental X Specific water usage X water for cooling ManagementSystem.
X Waste quantities Marine environment X water for firefighting We have an excellent track record of environmental risk X water for utilities.
We are in the process of achieving ISO 14001 accreditation, management.
In 39 years of operation, in the sensitive environment which will help us to manage more efficiently our environmental of the Gulf of Kavala, no environmental damage has been recorded.
We seek to address our environmental responsibilities throughout the value chain.
At Energean, we seek to promote environmental awareness Our environmental policy and management are in line with all Environmental expenditure amongst our employees, throughout their daily activities, applicable national laws and European directives.
Reducing waste and emissions are important to us.
We also invest 2016 2017 2018 both inside and outside of the workplace.
We recognise that in ways to enhance our energy and water efficiency.
Our onshore and offshore water discharges are continuously  and sustainable living are key to Total cost 112,158 525,318 825,287 monitored to meet the requirements of the Water Framework successful environmental conservation.
We therefore regularly Environmental protection is a top priority and we are committed Crude oil production Directive, the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, the Barcelona undertake environmental initiatives with the participation of local to ensuring that all necessary measures are taken to minimise the Convention and the International Convention for the Prevention of communities, such as cleaning local beaches on page 50.
2016 2017 2018 possibility of any environmental impact.
Additionally, management Pollution from Ships 'MARPOL'.
and staff are committed to vigorous supervision and the Product tn 178,209 143,137 207,003 implementation of applicable national and European legislation.
Biodiversity protection Specific energy consumption We aim to conserve the biological diversity of terrestrial, marine 2016 2017 2018 and avian migratory species throughout their range.
We manage Electrical KWh our operations by taking into account the fundamental ecological 338 338 274 product tn functions of wetlands and their economic, cultural, scientific and Thermal KWh recreational value.
928 1,202 1,044 product tn The Bonn Convention, the Ramsar Convention, the Convention Specific emissions on Biological Diversity, and the EU Birds and Habitats Directives 2016 2017 2018 are considered throughout the execution of environmental impact assessments and environmental monitoring plans.
Direct kg CO 2 208 262 219 product tn An independent offshore specific study showed that benthic Dolphins offshore Kavala, Greece Indirect kg CO 2 297 341 234 communities have not been affected by Energeans offshore product tn operations in the Gulf of Kavala.
Our industry, tourism and the environment in Specific water usage co-existence Marine contingency plan 2016 2017 2018 Since 2009, we have invested more than US$400 million in the We have developed and tested emergency response procedures Seawater and Beach cleaning in Kavala, Greece Prinos oil field in the Gulf of Kavala.
Our track record of zero for handling specific incidents such as oil spills.
Our well-structured potable water 7.24 7.67 4.90 environmental incidents during our operations in the Gulf of Kavala 3 management plan, which includes regular, comprehensive training m product tn demonstrates that heavy industry can be compatible with both the for staff and the necessary oil spill fighting equipment, ensures natural environment and the activities of local communities.
Our Values corrected from the figures given in 2017. we have the confidence that we can manage any potential oil spill.
ability to operate in environmentally sensitive areas is also reflected The effectiveness of these emergency management procedures by the award of more than 10 blue flags by the Hellenic Society for Non-hazardous waste disposal is demonstrated by the fact that we have never had to put them the Protection of Nature representing Greece in the International intopractice.
2016 2017 2018 Foundation for Environmental Education every year since 2008 to Total waste tn 398 276 941 beaches and marinas in the areas surrounding the Prinos basin.
Waste management Hazardous waste disposal We are committed to reducing at source the amount of waste generated by our activities.
Where recycling is not deemed 2016 2017 2018 practical, opportunities for using waste as a source of energy are Total waste tn 170 1,191 1,508 being considered.
Energean is investigating new processes to treat waste more efficiently.
For instance, we are considering how to I t should be noted that increase of production reduces the above minimise the solid waste produced by our plant, and how to recycle it.
50Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201851 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Community Community relations Energean aims to make a positive impact when it comes to The energy industry, in its entirety, is engaged in a serious debate We combat poverty We fight hunger community issues.
Having understood the power of working over impacts on natural resources, as well as impacts on local together, we undertake initiatives in order to build trust with the local communities and their ecosystems.
At Energean, we believe that Energean has adopted a responsible In Energean, we fight hunger by supporting communities where we operate and, hence, secure our social licence adopting responsible practices and aiming to create shared values attitude to support poor and vulnerable people, people, particularly the poor and vulnerable, to operate.
We actively pay close attention to the impact we make on for all of our stakeholders helps us manage risks and fully take joining the efforts of NGOs and establishing who lack access to food and proper nutrition.
the well-being of society and we further engage in activities geared advantage of the opportunities presented to us in a constantly alliances with them towards the common goal In order to achieve this goal, we establish towards contributing to and improving the quality of life.
Potential risks mainly include damage to of fighting poverty.
To this end, Energean: partnerships with NGOs and we contribute our reputation and undermining of our established and long-lasting totheir efforts against hunger, while Our community investments are part of our larger effort to build relationships with our local communities, which could lead to the directlyhelping people in need with food trust in the societies where we operate and provide solutions loss of our 'social licence' to operate.
X Supported the NGO Together for Children through the CSR andgift vouchers: to chronic societal problems.
We consider this effort as a joint initiatives I give because I care and Secret Santa.
In this purpose and we are trying to increase our ability to provide Our CSR policy is rooted in our Company values, guided by context, Energean urged colleagues to donate childrens items X Donation of surplus lunch food from the Athens office to sustainable solutions in the long run.
We believe that the only way international standards and best practices, and has become and, through a great response, Energean managed to collect Boroume We Can 1,562 portions Boroume is a non-profit to achieve this, is through the establishment of a mutually beneficial afundamental guiding principle of how we do business.
To this food, personal hygiene products, cleaning and school supplies, organisation that fights food waste byorganising the distribution relationship between the organisation and the local communities.
end, we work towards contributing to the achievement of the clothes and toys in order to support children, adolescents of surplus food for charity throughout Greece.
UnitedNations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs in our and families in need.
Energeans employees were also urged everyday operations.
X Donation of supermarket gift vouchers for celebrating Easter, to to become the Secret Santa to a child in need and feel the families in need.
In this way, Energean contributed during the Christmas period to the happiness and wellbeing of 30 children and families already supported by NGOs food relief programme.
The Secret Santa activity took place in both Athens and Kavala in Greece.
Our social activities contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and specifically to: Goal 1 No Poverty, Goal 2 Zero Hunger, Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being, Goal 4 Quality Education, Goal 10 Reduced Inequalities, Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities, and Goal 14 Life Below Water.
52Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201853 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Community continued We care about good health and wellbeing We promote cultural and natural heritage Additional Initiatives Energean cares about the good health and Sustainable development has always been In Energean, we believe that our host communities are an wellbeing of all people, from its employees to Energeans primary goal for the local integral part of our operations and thus they are recognised the citizens of local communities.
Providing communities where the Company operates.
askey stakeholders for our company.
In this context, premium health insurance packages to its Inthis context, we work towards the protection Energean held a range of additional societal actions, employees, while promoting health initiatives and safeguard of the cultural and natural local duringthe reporting period, as stated below: in the local communities, Energean seeks to heritage.
During the reporting period, Energean provide a helping hand to people in need and initiated and supported the following actions: X Energeans Floating Production Storage Off-loading FPSO especially to people with special needs and Naming Competition 2018, for the naming of the Energeans disabilities.
In this context, Energean X Support of the 2nd Dodoni Festival a Cultural Summer Festival future built floating vessels.
The winner of the competition will responded to local needs through: in Ioannina, Greece.
travel to Singapore for the naming ceremony in 2020: X Great sponsors of Kalpakia 2018 a Cultural Festival of X Employees engagement through an Environment Photo Contest, Historical Remembrance for the WWII Battle in Kalpaki, X Energean established a crowd-funding project, the proceeds of with various gifts for participants while the best photos awarded Wheelchair Basket Ball Game, Kavala, Greece with our Chief Executive on the right Ioannina, Greece.
which were allocated to the Kavala School ofSpecial Vocational and included in the Energeans annual calendar: Education and Training the 'Kavala EEEEK', at Nea Karvali, X On-going and continuous support of Kavalas Fire Brigade.
X Creation and publishing of the 2007 - 2017: 10 years of getting Kavala, Greece.
The purpose of the fundraising was the creation WISER book, including words of wisdom by Energeans employees: We stand for equality X Grand Sponsors of Ancient Olympia Marathon.
of a multi-sensory room for students on the autism spectrum, X Gold sponsors of Kavalas White Night, in collaboration with the Through our slogan We all can, we all care X Grand sponsors of Kavalas 21km Half-Marathon Race Saint as well as for children with learning difficulties, hyperactivity or Commercial Association of Kavala and the participation of the we aim to convey the message that living with Paul Run.
Theroom is called surrounding local communities, with the aim to enhance and adisability should not prevent anyone from the Snoezelen Therapy Room or Multi-Sensory Treatment Room.
mobilise the local market: living a full life.
At the same time, we urge everyone to fight against social exclusion X Initiation of the collection and recycling of plastic bottles, lids and We protect our ecosystems ofpeople with disabilities and contribute to bags consumed on Energeans platforms, delivering dual positive We reinforce education In Energean, we seek to prevent and aworld of reduced inequalities.
On the one hand, the plastic is being recycled while on the significantly reduce marine pollution of all In Energean, we believe that it is our duty to goal, Energean implemented the following other hand the monetary value generated through this process kinds.
We aim to sustainably manage and support the future generations of Oil & Gas actions during the reporting period: is donated to the local Special Vocational Education & Training protect marine coastal ecosystems, not only experts, who will staff the Greek upstream School of Nea Karvali in Kavala, Eastern Macedonia, Greece: through the prevention of potential pollution, sector.
To this purpose, we aim to secure X Decoration and delivery of Easter Candles at a Nursing Home: X Ancient Olympia Marathon: Donation to the Association of but also through remediation of the existing ahigh level of educational skills, which can Paraplegics and Disabled People in the Prefecture of Ileia, pollution beyond Energeans operational address the employment needs and future Our Performance Greece.
Additionally, a team of 23 members in total from our boundaries.
Our employees are encouraged to opportunities in the energy sector.
We offices in London, Athens and Cairo, including teenagers and make a positive impact in local communities, Our main goal is to raise public and employee awareness and to accomplish that by providing scholarships and children, participated in various races, including a night-run that and during the reporting period, they took part inspire the local community on related engagements.
For this internships to existing and prospective college we run next to the Associations members who participated in in the following voluntary actions: reason, we constantly aim to openly inform the local communities, students, sponsoring students initiatives, their wheelchairs.
as well as urge and engage our employees over upcoming events.
forums and conferences, as well as donating At the same time, we welcome feedback on the initiatives and school equipment.
During the reporting period, X Bath University, United Kingdom: Supported a Charity X Voluntary cleaning of Rapsani Beach employees engagement.
activities that have already taken place by our CSR Department.
Wheelchair Basketball Game, aiming to engage students and Energean initiated the following actions: toraise awareness.
X Cleaning of the seabed of Kavalas Main Port Apostolos Pavlos, The primary way of receiving feedback regarding our approach with the participation of Energeans divers and divers volunteers X We organised a Wheelchair Basketball Game for a good cause X Hosted 14 college students for internships and summer work comes from our day to day interaction with the local communities.
The action was supported by Energeans vessels in Kavala, Greece: Energean-Kavala B. C. a basketball team during the summer of 2018.
However, in our constant effort to improve and maximise our Energean Wave and Skala Prinos employees engagement.
competing in the 2018 - 2019 A2 Mens National Basketball social contribution, we plan to undertake local communities needs X Provided numerous guided tours and visits to college professors Championship & Friends, played wheelchair basketball with assessments in the future, through meetings, stakeholder forums and students on our onshore facilities Sigma Plant, at Nea Kavala Sports Club Wheelchair Basketball Team.
Energeans and surveys, in order to better identify and hence address the Karvali, Kavala, Greece.
CEO, Mr. Mathios Rigas, along with other company executives, specific societal needs.
X Offered scholarships to two college students of the Eastern participated in the game.
All proceeds of the event were Macedonia and Thrace Institute of Technology, in order to donated for the needs of Kavala Sports Club Wheelchair During 2018, no significant disputes emerged with local acquire their Masters Degree in Oil & Gas Technology.
communities and indigenous people, concerning land use, marine X Supported, as Gold Sponsors, the 1st Petrochem Day, organised X Supported Etgarim Israel, an NGO for the rehabilitation, areas, cultural heritage, or other reasons.
On planned and future by Chemecon, a NGO established by Chemical Engineering operations, we aim to further enhance our relationship with the local empowerment and social integration of children and adults college students.
communities in order to keep our social licence to operate intact and retain their trust.
X Donated 500 sets of school equipment to six Municipalities in Epirus, Western Greece.
X On the World Environment Day: Initiated and offered lectures to primary school students on Marine Environment and Recycling, in order to educate and raise students awareness.
Seabed cleaning, Kavala Port, Greece 54Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201855 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk management Risk management framework Overview Risk management processes The Board Effective risk management is The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature The Board and the senior management team use a combination fundamental to achieving our strategic and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving ofdifferent and complementary skills to assess the risks facing X Overall responsibility for risks it is willing to take objectives and protecting shareholder the strategic objectives of the Group, and for ensuring that the business.
In determining its risk appetite, the Board considers risks are managed effectively.
A key aspect of this is ensuring avariety of information when reviewing the Groups operations value.
The Directors have carried out X Considers: the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk andapproving key matters reserved for its decision.
information includes: a robust assessment of the Groups Strategic plan and budgets principal risks and a description of these The Group operates a risk management framework in order to X updates provided by senior management on key strategic and Risk assessments identify, assess, control and monitor the risks to the business and operational matters: risks, together with details of how they allow it to achieve its strategic objectives.
X discussion and approval by the Board of the Group budget impact our strategy and how they are including its working capital : Audit and Risk Committee The risk management framework sets out the inputs into the managed, is provided on pages 58 - 62.
X information provided for the purposes of deciding whether to internal controls and risk management process and includes detail approve those significant matters which have been reserved for on the following matters: X Responsible for review of the effectiveness of the Groups the Board: internal controls X Risk reporting structure X Group risk assessments facilitated by the Groups management X Identification and monitored by the Internal Audit function: and X Considers: X the reports of the external auditors.
X Methodology and classification Internal audit work plans Management reports and any other executive reports X Risk appetite Risk reporting External auditor reports X Group Risk Register The Board has delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee the Internal audit reports X Reporting and monitoring framework.
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems ofinternal control and its risk management methodology.
Internal Audit Reporting and Monitoring The Board has approved a Group Risk Register identifying significant risks of the following kinds: As part of this review, the Audit and Risk Committee considers the X Reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee principal risks facing the Group and the nature and extent of these X Strategic risk risks, based on assessments by management and the Groups X Health, safety and environmental risk internal auditors.
The Group outsources its Internal Audit function, Management X Human resource risk which also provides independent assurance over the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control.
The detailed X Technology risk assessments are then consolidated to provide input into the overall X Responsible for detailed assessment of the risks X Regulation & compliance risk Group risk assessment.
X Operational and execution risk X Considers risks to: X Financial and reporting risk.
Strategy Financial position and prospects The Board has put in place a monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis, and fully reviewed at least annually.
The monitoring system assists in determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
56Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201857 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks Principal risks and uncertainties Principal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation This section describes the material existing and emerging risks which the Health, Safety and Environmental Risks Boardbelieves could significantly impact the ability of the Group to meet X Compliance with the Groups Health, Safety and Environment Health, Safety and the The Group operates in an industry that is itsstrategic objectives.
HSE policy which observes local and national, legal and inherently hazardous and consequently subject Environment regulatory requirements and generally applies best practices to comprehensive regulation.
Although the The Group is obliged to comply where local legislation does not exist or where environmental Group considers that it has adequate procedures Strategy: with health and safety and regulation does not presently occur.
in place to mitigate operational risks and keeps environmental regulations and these under review, there can be no assurances X Ongoing monitoring of the changes in relevant legislation and Developing reserves: Adding hydrocarbons by capitalising on Maintaining a disciplined cannot guarantee that it will 1 Optimising production 2 3 4 that these will be adequate and failure to regulation.
Karish and Tanin growth opportunities in the Mediterranean financial framework be able to comply with these adequately mitigate risks may result in loss of regulations.
X Further development and maintenance of the HSE life, injury, or adverse impacts on the health Management System.
Link to strategy: of employees, contractors or third parties or The Directors of the Company confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including X Accreditation for Environmental International Standard ISO the environment.
Failure, whether inadvertent 1 2 14001 for all existing installations.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
or otherwise, by the Group to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements X Continuous monitoring of air quality in existing plant may give rise to significant liabilities and may locations.
Principal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation result in loss of life, injury, or adverse impacts on X Continuous implementation of an ongoing competence Strategic Risks the health of employees, contractors and third assurance and assessment scheme.
X Maturation of the Groups exploration position, including: Reserve replacement The Groups current reserves are being depleted X Continuous implementation of an internal and external annual fide-risking of the Groups existing exploration portfolio by by production, requiring replacement through safety training for all onsite personnel and contractors.
The Groups long term success acquisition and interpretation of additional seismic data: organic or inorganic means.
depends on its ability to find, X Continuous implementation of a health monitoring high-grading of exploration acreage and prospects: and An inability to replenish the portfolio at develop and acquire additional programme and personnel fitness for workers onsite.
drilling of low risk, material exploration prospects that the acceptable costs may result in declining oil and gas reserves that are Group believes can be quickly, economically and safely production and revenues.
This could have a Project Execution & Production Operations Risks economically recoverable.
material adverse effect on the Groups business, Link to strategy: Project Execution The Karish-Tanin development is approximately X Disciplined lump sum, turnkey engineering, procurement, X Pursuit of inorganic opportunities throughout the oil & results of operations, financial condition and or 33% progressed.
Whilst the design and execution construction, installation and commissioning EPCIC 1 gas lifecycle with a focus on existing production and The Groups success will investor confidence.
strategy have been developed so as to mitigate Contract with TechnipFMC for the construction of the FPSO development projects that can be quickly, economically and be partly dependent upon The Groups current reserves are being risk, there remains risk in ensuring that project and subsurface facilities which Contract includes liquidated safely progressed into the reserves category.
completing the Karish-Tanin depletedat a low rate.
Once production from delivery is on budget and on schedule.
Any delay damages, including for the event of delay.
Development on budget and on Karish commences, depletion is expected to X Continuing to maintain a strong technical and commercial in project delivery could have an impact under X Monthly reporting on the status, risks, opportunities and schedule.
besignificantly increased and hence the Group team with successful track record in exploration and the Groups Gas Sales and Purchase Contracts, budget of the Karish-Tanin development.
may have to increase the number of exploration marginal field development.
Link to strategy: which could result in delay to, or reduction of, X Effective contract management, with a focus on minimising wells drilled or discovered reserves acquired cash flows with potential adverse effects on 1 2 variations and close management of contractual milestones, through M&A activity to maintain the same the Groups results, financial position and or contingencies and reimbursable items.
X Focus on the critical path and regular progress meetings.
Geopolitical As the Group has assets located in and offshore X Active monitoring of the political, economic and social Israel, political, economic and military conditions situation in Israel.
X Continuous focus on and investment in HSE.
Production The Groups current oil and gas production and The geopolitical situation in in Israel may directly affect the Groups business.
related revenues come entirely from the Prinos X Ensuring that the offshore facilities are appropriately X A high quality team of committed in-house reservoir Israel may adversely affect the The Groups success will basin, located offshore in northeast Greece.
The Groups development and or future equipped and protected.
engineers and production technologists working on Prinos Groups business.
be partly dependent upon production operations with respect to the Karishreservoir management, supplemented with outsourced The Group is therefore exposed to the effect of continuing production from X Monitoring and adhering to local laws and regulations.
Link to strategy: Tanin Development, although subject to security consultants experts.
disruption, delays or interruptions of production Prinos.
2 measures required by law and under the Lease from wells in this area.
X Continuous review of well design and performance, in Link to strategy: requirements, could be specifically targeted.
Furthermore, the Prinos main field is mature and particular with a view to minimise unexpected or additional 1 off plateau.
Significant incidents could result in material X Monthly reporting on the status, risks, opportunities and adverse effects on the Groups cash flows, budget of the Prinos development.
financial position and or investor confidence.
X Ensure production and operating costs from Prinos are within guidance on production volume and cost of production per barrel.
X Management and preventative maintenance of facilities, with a focus on ensuring that unplanned work-overs, shutdowns and expenditure are minimised.
X Compliance with asset licence and applicable laws and regulations.
X Continuous and rigorous focus on cost control.
58Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201859
