Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Committee comprises only non-executive Directors and is I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Philip Yea.
In my last report, I set out four main areas of focus for the The members of the Committee who served during the year Committee this year.
These were to: and as at the date of this report are shown in the table below, successfully recruit and induct a new non-executive Director: together with their attendance at the four committee meetings held during the year or those held during their tenure: grow our talent pool: continue monitoring and refreshing the succession plans for Name Attended both the Board and senior leadership team: and Committee Chair: Philip Yea 4 4 monitor progress with implementing the Diversity and 1 Alison Burns Inclusion Policy and the feedback received on this from 2 2 employees.
Sally-Ann Hibberd 4 4 As explained further within this report, we exceeded the first 2 objective by recruiting two new non-executive Directors during Vicky Jarman 1 2 the year.
We also enhanced our talent pool, linking this to our 3 Dr Tim Miller 3 4 succession planning, and progressed the implementation of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy throughout the Group.
4 Darren Pope 2 4 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE An external evaluation of the Committee was undertaken during 1 Alison Burns was appointed to the Committee effective from 1 April and the year by Lintstock.
Details of the evaluation and its results can then stood down on 1 November 2018 as part of the reorganisation of all be found on page 69. committee memberships.
2 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Committee effective from 3 May 2018.
For 2019, our focus areas will be: She was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
3 to continue developing and growing our talent pool: Dr Tim Miller was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
4 Darren Pope was unable to attend two meetings that were additionally to continue to assess, benchmark and develop our senior scheduled during the year due to prior commitments.
executive team: to monitor the progress of the Culture Transformation Plan: to assist management in managing the Gender Pay Gap within the Group: and to continue to monitor the progress being made in the implementation of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy within the Group.
I look forward to reporting on our progress in our next report.
Philip Yea Chair of the Nomination Committee 12 March 2019 86 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE The Committee acts independently of management and reports ensuring the necessary due diligence and conflicts of interest and makes recommendations directly to the Board.
checks have been undertaken before an appointment is made: The Committees Terms of Reference state that the Committee ensuring that an annual evaluation is undertaken of the shall be comprised of at least three independent non-executive effectiveness of the Board, each committee of the Board, Directors and this was complied through out the year.
and the contribution of each Director, such evaluation to be externally facilitated at least once every three years: The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive Group Policies and Best Practices and the Chief People & Transformation Officer to attend its having regard to established and evolving best practice meetings in full, although it reserves its rights to request either corporate governance standards, including where relevant, of those individuals to withdraw.
During the year, the Committee standards set by voting agencies and voluntary codes: met with the Chief People & Transformation Officer without management and or any executive member of the Board being monitoring whether satisfactory induction is provided for present.
new Directors, with respect to their Board and Committee responsibilities: The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Group.
It ensuring an appropriate ongoing training programme is in can obtain assurances and, when appropriate, reports from place for existing Directors: the directors of subsidiary companies which have appointed in conjunction with the Remuneration Committee, monitoring separate nomination committees.
the progress with addressing the Groups Gender Pay Gap The Committee may take independent professional advice on issues: and any matters covered by its Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found in the investor section of Equinitis website: http: conducting an annual review of the Groups conflicts register.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee develops and maintains a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for recommending appointments and reappointments to the Board.
Its responsibilities include: Board and Senior Leadership Team Structure and Composition regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure it has an appropriate balance of skills, independence, knowledge, experience and diversity: regularly reviewing the knowledge, skills and experience of individual members of the Board: regularly considering the succession plans for Directors and senior executives: identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior executive vacancies, as and when they arise: 87 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The Committee met four times during the year.
At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit, which primarily included the following: February April July November reviewed the draft reviewed the leadership reviewed the ongoing noted and discussed Nomination Committee team succession and recruitment process for the proposed external report for the 2017 contingency plan within a new non-executive assessment to be Annual Report and the Group: Director: undertaken on the senior Accounts: management team as reviewed the resourcing discussed the shortlist part of the talent and considered and requirements for each of candidates with each succession planning for recommended the division: Director having met the 2019: appointment of Alison preferred candidates : focused on the US Burns as a new nonreviewed the results of management structure, gave authority to the executive Director: the annual talent and to ensure that it met its Chairman to enter succession planning for noted that Vicky Jarman requirements: into discussions with 2018 for each enabling would be standing down two proposed final reviewed the senior Function and Division: as a non-executive candidates: and executives performance: Director of the Company: approved the employee subject to satisfactory reviewed and screening and security approved the role results from the due approved the updated vetting policy, to be specification for a new diligence process, Diversity and Inclusion rolled out Group-wide: non-executive Director: recommended to programme: and the Board their received updates on appointments as nonDiversity and Inclusion: reviewed and discussed approved the executive Directors.
the Committees appointment of Lygon received an update evaluation report: and Group Lygon as the on the Culture Companys executive reviewed the Transformation Plan: search firm, to recruit Committees Terms of reviewed the 2018 a new non-executive Reference.
evaluation: and received an update on Gender Pay Gap.
88 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 RECRUITMENT OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Appointment Process Executive Search Specifications Shortlist Interviews Due Diligence and Firm Selected Agreed Prepared Conducted Recommendation The Committee The Committee Lygon provided a The Chairman and Following a selected Lygon as agreed specifications long list of candidates the Chief Executive satisfactory the executive search for the roles, based to the Chairman for conducted interviews conclusion to firm.
Lygon knows the on the criteria for feedback.
This was with the selected the thorough Company well, having new non-executive whittled down to a candidates.
The due diligence previously assisted Directors.
shortlist of candidates preferred candidates and referencing with the recruitment to interview.
then met the process, together of Philip Yea, Sallyremainder of the with CRB checks, Ann Hibberd and Board.
recommended the appointment of the preferred candidates to the Board for approval.
Lygon is a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, to address gender diversity on corporate boards and best practice for the related search processes.
It has acted for the Company before in recruitment to the Board but has no other connection with the Company.
During the year, Alison Burns, Mark Brooker and Cheryl In the recruitment process that led to Alison Burns appointment, Millington joined the Board as independent non-executive the Committee was seeking someone who had held an executive Directors.
Details of their backgrounds and the dates of their role or had related business experience and capabilities, appointments are set out in the Chairmans Statement on particularly in relation to financial services and or customer page 18. focus, and who could provide input on strategic, operational or customer service matters.
Alison Burns was the outstanding The Chairman led the process to appoint the new non-executive candidate in that regard and the Committee recommended her Directors.
The appointment process is described in the diagram appointment to the Board.
In the recruitment process that led to the appointment of Mark In assessing potential candidates, the Committee looked for Brooker and Cheryl Millington, the Committee was seeking people who: candidates with knowledge and skills from the IT sector, with had a diverse mix of experience, recognising the importance strong financial services and commercial experience also being of diversity in its widest sense in Board effectiveness: valuable.
Cheryl Millington had a strong IT background, while Mark Brookers commercial and financial services experience could make a genuine contribution to the Board and all its also stood out.
As a result, the Committee recommended to the Committees and add value by offering wise counsel and Board that both should be appointed as non-executive Directors.
advice, based on their experience and track record: could support the Chairman in ensuring that the Board provides effective direction for and oversight of management and its compliance with its statutory and regulatory responsibilities: and could help set the Groups values and standards and ensure that its obligations to its clients, shareholders, finance providers, regulators and others are understood and met.
89 Directors Induction and Training Succession Planning The Chairman and Company Secretary designed a tailored One of the Committees key roles is to ensure that the Group induction programme for each new Director, prior to their has appropriate plans for progressively refreshing the Board and appointment to the Board.
identifying and developing people with the potential to take on Board and Executive Committee positions in the future.
Inductions take account of the Directors existing knowledge of the industry, specific areas of expertise and proposed Committee The Groups succession plan sets out shortto long-term appointments.
The new Director is typically provided with leadership succession and contingency planning, over the information on director duties, the UK Corporate Governance following periods: Code, Board and Committee composition, operational and Short term emergency cover management structure, key policies and procedures, strategy Medium term within the next 12 months and financials, matters reserved for the Board, Committee Terms of Reference, forward agendas, previous Board and Committee Long term within the next two to three years meeting minutes, and the Board and Committee meetings The succession plan is linked to the talent development and schedule.
The Committee The induction process also includes detailed briefings with continued to review the succession plan during the year, ensuring the Chairman, Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and that both the Board and the Committee have visibility of a wide Committee Chairs and meetings with the rest of the Board and range of individuals with leadership potential, together with their key individuals from the senior leadership team.
This enables new individual development plans.
This will remain a focus area for 2019.
Directors to fully understand the issues being discussed at Board and Executive Committee levels.
Diversity and Inclusion The Board and Committee recognise the benefits that a diverse The process also includes meetings with the Companys external workforce brings.
Specifically, it enables the Group to: auditor, PwC, and one of the Companys external corporate make objective decisions about how we organise and optimise advisers.
This enables new Directors to be given an overview resources and work, by eliminating structural and cultural of current audit affairs, market and sector comparatives and to barriers and bias, so we can work together effectively: be advised of any observations and key challenges facing the Company.
protect and enhance our reputation by recognising, respecting and harnessing the needs and interests of diverse These meetings take place not only in the Companys London stakeholders: office, but also at other UK sites such as Lancing and Birmingham.
In June and November, the Board held meetings at the Exeter deliver strong performance and growth by attracting, engaging and Leeds offices to better understand the business operations and retaining diverse talent: within these locations.
In October, the Board meeting was held in innovate by drawing on the diversity of perspectives, skills, Minneapolis in the US.
styles and experience of our employees and stakeholders: and Throughout the year, the Chairman discusses training requirements with the Board and the Company Secretary, and adapt and respond effectively to societal changes.
arranges meetings, site visits or information to be provided.
As The Group is committed to ensuring that it treats its employees part of their ongoing development, Directors are supplied with fairly and with dignity.
This includes being free from any direct appropriate information in a suitable format.
All Directors have or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or other form of access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and victimisation.
The Whistleblowing Policy and associated policies independent professional advice.
encourage employees to speak up about any inappropriate practices or behaviour, including through an independent Talent Management whistleblowing contact facility.
The Committee recognises that the people strategy is fundamental to achieving the Groups strategic goals.
The new The Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion D&I policy in Chief People & Transformation Officer, who is leading our people February 2017.
During 2018, the Group continued to implement agenda, has refreshed the Groups people strategy, including the the policy, with a range of initiatives across the Group.
There has approach to managing learning and talent.
been good engagement and awareness of the policy throughout the Group and there has been a number of positive outcomes New talent is brought into the Group at apprentice level, as with the creation of four employee network groups, including a well as through the recruitment of experienced people.
The disability taskforce, by staff who are interested in supporting D&I.
Rising Stars programme is designed to accelerate the progress As D&I becomes more embedded within the Group, it evolves of talented employees.
This is combined with investment in and the business has to adapt.
Accordingly, the Committee learning, which focused on developing leadership and sales approved an updated policy in April 2018.
More information can capabilities in 2018.
The Committee is satisfied that the learning be found in the Strategic Report on page 40. and talent programmes are working well and contributing to the strength and depth of the Groups talent pool.
This will remain an area of focus in 2019.
More information on each of these areas can be found on pages 38 to 41 of the Strategic Report.
90 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Board Diversity The Company has nine Directors, three of whom are women, representing 33% of the Board.
The Board therefore meets the 25% target established by the Davies Report and the increased target of 33% by 2020 established by the Hampton-Alexander Review.
In addition to considering gender, age, disability, ethnicity, geography and experience, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Equiniti and the industry as a whole.
A similar approach is used for the senior leadership team.
Our Culture Programme Towards the end of the year, the Board launched our culture programme which will be implemented during 2019.
Further details on the plan can be found in the Strategic Report on page 38.
The Committee will monitor the plan's progress and the feedback received from employees.
