Principal risks and uncertainties We provide business-critical services to our clients, often in highly regulated and complex environments.
As we grow, our business and our risk environment also become more complex.
It is therefore vital that we effectively identify, evaluate, manage framework, and where applicable are captured within the Groups and mitigate the risks we face, and that we continue to evolve principal risks for example, the resilience of our IT infrastructure.
our approach to risk management.
We recognise that a number Integration of the US business is progressing well and is tracked of our principal risks, such as increasing and changing regulation, closely by a dedicated Executive Steering Committee.
Our client also create opportunities for us, as we can develop products and retention remains strong, we are developing and delivering services that help our clients to manage their own regulatory new products and services to our US clients and launching new burdens.
Information about our risk management framework, supporting technology which will enable us to move away from including that for our regulated entities, can be found in the Risk the existing Transition Services Agreement in place with Wells Committee Report on pages 80 to 85.
Information and cyber security remains a key inherent risk with OUR RISK PROFILE the Groups business model.
As such, we continue to dedicate Managing risk effectively is fundamental to delivering our material resource to review an analysis of information security risk strategy and to us operating successfully.
We believe that a and mitigation, with ongoing investment in people, technology robust risk management culture is vital for sustainable growth and processes.
Whilst there have been changes in the inherent and must be at the centre of everything we do.
Our approach to risk driven by increases in environmental risk, the overall residual risk is supported by an effective policy and control framework, risk has remained stable as a result of our ongoing focus.
which guides and informs our colleagues work behaviours In 2018, we have also seen increasing demands from our markets and the decisions they make.
Our prudent risk culture and risk and customers to more proactively demonstrate how we conduct appetites support effective decision making and enables us to our business appropriately and ethically.
We are well placed to deliver against our strategic priorities.
manage this through setting an effective conduct culture backed Although we have diversified geographically with the acquisition up with conduct training of our staff and supporting policies and of our US business, we remain predominantly a lower-risk, controls.
Despite the continuing uncertain The risk to the Group of lower revenues from its cash balances as economic and regulatory environment, particularly as a result of a result of falling interest rates, as reported in 2017, has reduced Brexit, our overall risk profile has remained stable during 2018. further and is no longer considered a principal risk as the outlook Whilst we do not consider that Brexit has a material direct is for interest rates to remain stable or increase during 2019. operational impact on our business, the influence that it will potentially have on the UK economy and particularly on the core OUR RISK APPETITE markets through which the Group transacts for customers in 2019 The Board has defined risk appetite statements for the main risks will require close monitoring.
During 2018 we have undertaken that we face during the normal course of business.
By assessing detailed assessments of the potential Brexit scenarios and their the level of each risk against our appetite for it, we ensure impact on the Group, and have developed operational plans to that we focus appropriately on the risks that need additional mitigate areas of potential disruption.
The ability of the Group attention.
Risks that are within our appetite require no further to manage a range of Brexit market stresses has been reviewed mitigating actions.
during the year, and as part of the 2018 viability statement on Given the nature of our services and the regulatory environment pages 52 to 53. we operate in, we have a low appetite for many of the risks we Opportunity and risk emanating from the US business is now face and no appetite for breaches of policy or control in certain assessed and reported as part of our integrated Group reporting.
critical areas, such as regulatory reporting or breaches of our The US business has assessed risks at a local level and these .
have been reviewed through the Groups risk management GROUP RISK CATEGORY IMPACT MITIGATION TREND A continuing level of change The Group Board and Executive An ongoing level of CHANGE & DEVELOPMENT and development may lead Committee ensures that all key change is expected Risk of disruptive change leading to material management and change projects are effectively during 2019, driven by to lower business agility, lower resource stretch which in turn prioritised and resourced, including the external environment, productivity, regulatory sanction, could impact the Groups ring-fencing essential resources.
new client engagements, poor customer relationships, ability to achieve its key All key change projects and initiatives and internal increased costs and lower revenues.
are supported by robust programme improvement projects.
We invest in our staff to ensure they have the necessary resource and expertise to deliver change programmes effectively.
Trend indicates perception of how risk has moved year-on-year.
48 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GROUP RISK CATEGORY IMPACT MITIGATION TREND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The majority of our products We have an extensive IT transformation We continue to invest and services are enabled programme that is being progressed in our technology and Risk of poor-quality infrastructure, by a resilient technical across key systems in 2019. processes, to support software or business tools, as a result infrastructure.
Our IT architecture plan also ensures our clients, ensure highof our failure to upgrade or invest in that key systems that need to work quality services and to our systems as necessary.
Disruption to this systems together do so effectively, enables develop new products infrastructure could lead to Links to the following strategy more rapid changes to systems and and propositions.
a failure of client service, elements: supports effective business process which in turn could result re-engineering.
in a failure to meet our 1 2 3 4 5 We continually monitor our internal contractual obligations, cause and external IT environment, to detriment for our customers, ensure it is operating effectively damage our reputation and and to identify opportunities for productivity, increase our enhancement.
costs and lead to financial The Group has an operational penalties and potential plan, including prioritisation of IT regulatory sanction.
development, ensuring we invest appropriately in our systems on a timely basis.
MARKETS & COMPETITION Equinitis prospects and We have a well-diversified client base Market demand for costgrowth strategy depend on us and portfolio of services, which helps effective outsourcing Risk of lower corporate performance retaining key customers and to insulate the Group from the loss of remains stable.
However, stemming from: taking opportunities to grow any one client or change in demand inherent risk has a failure to identify or understand and diversify our business.
increased as political and strategic market opportunities: we do not respond effectively Our ongoing client relationship economic factors may the emergence of alternative to trends in our market, we management helps us to monitor have an adverse impact competing markets, such as could lose key clients or fail trends in demand.
on this in the short to digital transformation: to win new business, which We monitor industry trends, to medium-term.
a change in customer outlook, could significantly affect our identify changes in demand, our for example because of economic revenues and profits.
competitive environment and conditions or geo-political issues: emerging technologies.
an inability to identify and analyse We have a strong pipeline of existing or emerging competitors: opportunities which we actively longer-term increased competitive manage.
pressures, due to a failure to We continue to develop new products deliver technical change or and services.
innovation: and We monitor trends in corporate short to medium-term competitor actions and other market activity.
Links to the following strategy elements: 1 2 3 4 5 DATA PROTECTION The loss, corruption or We have a dedicated Data Protection With the advent of the compromise of personal data Office, with experienced compliance General Data Protection Risk of loss, corruption or could lead to a poor customer personnel.
Regulation GDPR, which compromise of personal data also experience, customer We operate a staff training and introduced standardised known as personally identifiable detriment, reputational harm, awareness programme, so our people data protection laws information which can relate to regulatory, legal or financial understand the criticality of data across all EU member customers, staff or any other natural sanction, loss of customers protection.
Ownership of data protection increasing importance of Links to the following strategy risk in the business has been data and cyber security, elements: embedded through our maturing risk the risk environment has management and policy framework.
However we 1 2 3 4 5 We have a programme to deploy continue to invest in this up-to-date security software on all key key area and our residual systems.
The Group undertakes regular risk and vulnerability assessments, to review and address any changes or new risks in data protection.
We employ appropriate encryption and data backup, to protect our data.
Third-party data security evaluations assure our data protection and help us Trend indicates perception of how risk has moved year-on-year.
49 GROUP RISK CATEGORY IMPACT MITIGATION TREND REGULATORY Failure by Equiniti to We have dedicated second-line risk We continue to invest adhere to any of its legal or and compliance teams who have significantly in our Risk of regulatory action stemming regulatory requirements could supported the first line business compliance functions and from weaknesses or failure in: lead to legal and regulatory in enhancing risk ownership and regulatory infrastructure, analysis of regulations, laws and sanctions, redress costs, accountability in 2018. to enable us to be codes: reputational risk, contract Our capital investment programme resilient and identify development of appropriate breach and, ultimately, loss of ensures we appropriately fund the cost-effective solutions as policies, processes and controls: operating licences or invalid actions we need to take to manage new regulations arise.
training and education of first-line contracts, resulting in reduced regulatory risk.
We can offset the costs of regulation capacity to monitor and respond by developing new services and to rate of change: products that help clients manage effectiveness of first-line their own regulatory burden.
surveillance in identifying and We continually monitor for upcoming, preventing breaches: new, or amendments, to regulation, to project management and ensure we comply on time.
documentation of regulatory We deliver regular training for all issues: employees working in regulated areas, Board and senior management so they understand the rules and governance and engagement on requirements they must comply with.
regulatory matters: We operate separate legal entities regulatory reporting and for regulated activities with their own disclosure.
Boards, to ensure rigorous focus on Links to the following strategy regulatory requirements.
elements: 1 2 3 4 5 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, If Equiniti fails to provide The Executive team and Board We continue to focus on CHANNEL & PRICING appropriate products, regularly discuss strategy in the enhancing the value of propositions and services to context of propositional design and our products and services Risk of poor products that fail to the market at suitable prices, service enhancement.
to customers and new meet the demands of our clients and it could suffer lower revenues We have dedicated resource towards market opportunities.
prospective clients or that do not or margins, customer customer proposition and customer comply with our regulatory or legal dissatisfaction or regulatory or experience to help us meet our obligations.
This risk also includes legal sanction.
customers expectations and ensure the potential for poor product we also understand their own distribution so clients or potential regulatory requirements.
clients are unable to access our We run client testing workshops, products and inappropriate pricing to gain customer input on product strategies.
Links to the following strategy We have implemented a new product elements: governance policy and associated controls to ensure a consistent 1 2 3 4 5 approach to product management is applied across the Group.
CONDUCT Poor conduct could lead We continue to develop key conduct There is an increasing to sub-optimal decision risk measures, to provide a granular expectation from our Risk of the business being unable to making, customer detriment, view of how our products and services markets and customers demonstrate and document good poor staff experience, legal are performing for customers.
to demonstrate how we corporate, staff or market conduct, or regulatory sanction, We strive to learn from any mistakes conduct our business for example: increased counterparty through root cause analysis and appropriately and Board, executive and senior risk-based pricing, reduced clear customer accountabilities for ethically.
We are well management leadership of the availability of counter parties colleagues, with rewards driven by placed to manage this corporate culture: and reputational harm to us customer-centric metrics.
and during 2019 we will identifying and managing conflicts and our clients.
This in turn We are further enhancing and be rolling out enhanced of interest: could result in a loss of trust embedding our framework to support conduct training, policies controlling staff behaviour which and confidence amongst our customers, particularly those in and associated controls could result in potential market stakeholders.
across the Group abuse: or We proactively review and follow compliance with legal and changes in governance and regulatory regulatory requirements.
Links to the following strategy We are preparing for the advent elements: of the FCAs Senior Managers and Certification Regime which applies 1 2 3 4 5 to the UK regulated entities in the Group.
50 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GROUP RISK CATEGORY IMPACT MITIGATION TREND SECURITY An information or physical We have an ongoing programme of Our ongoing programme security breach could reduce investment in internal and external of investment in Cyber risk, involving the disruption the quality of our services cyber security.
improved controls or corruption of systems and to customers or result in us The Group has an ISO27001 aligned ensures we maintain connectivity, or loss or leakage of breaching the law or our compliant control framework.
our position, in an data from accidental or malicious contracts, which in turn could We continuously review our cyber environment where the actions.
damage our reputation, security capability and emerging external threat remains There are also risks arising from a increase our costs and reduce threats.
physical security breach including our revenues.
Our IT infrastructure is subjected to property damage, staff injury, theft regular penetration tests.
or inappropriate access to premises, We deploy extensive security systems or information.
measures to deny unauthorised Links to the following strategy access to our premises, equipment elements: and resources and to protect personnel and property from damage 1 2 3 4 5 or harm.
PURCHASING, SUPPLY & Partner, subcontractor or The Group has a dedicated We have an ongoing OUTSOURCING supplier failure could result procurement function, with due programme of in Equiniti being unable to diligence policies, standards and enhancements to Risk of a business critical partner, meet its customer obligations procedures.
contracts, to ensure subcontractor or supplier failing or perform critical business We run supplier financial health they all have clear to deliver and or perform to the operations.
This could checks and monitor their financial performance indicators required standards.
result in a reputational position on an ongoing basis.
linked to delivery of Links to the following strategy impact, reduced business We regularly review supplier services, with appropriate elements: agility, customer detriment, performance and risk.
increased cost and lower We audit our material suppliers 1 2 3 4 5 revenue.
business continuity plans, to ensure they are appropriate.
We consider potential supplier failure as part of our overall business continuity and resilience planning.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY & Failure to effectively plan We have detailed business continuity Ongoing review and RESILIENCE for and manage unplanned and disaster recovery plans, which we testing of our plans events could lead to a test regularly.
ensures they remain up Risk of slow or flawed recovery poor customer experience, We employ dual hosting of critical to date and appropriate.
following unexpected events, such customer detriment, servers, telecommunications and as loss of a key building or a major IT reputational harm, regulatory applications, to help ensure their system failure.
sanction, loss of customers, availability.
Links to the following strategy lower productivity, reduced The Group has separate business elements: revenues and increased costs.
continuity or disaster recovery sites available to it.
1 2 3 4 5 We work closely with highly regulated clients who outsource services to us to ensure their own resilience.
PEOPLE Failure to attract or retain We are taking focused action to We believe in the the right people would limit attract, retain and develop high-calibre importance of investing Risk of low operating efficiency Equinitis ability to deliver its people.
in our people and stemming from poor staff morale business plan commitments We have initiatives to reinforce utilise a variety of and experience, higher staff attrition, and continue to grow.
behaviours that generate the programmes tailored to increased sickness, higher retention best outcomes for customers and help them enhance their and recruitment costs, and unfilled colleagues.
We carefully manage our organisational achieve objectives and Links to the following strategy capability and capacity, to ensure there develop their leadership elements: are the right skills and resources to skills.
1 2 3 4 5 We use effective remuneration arrangements to promote appropriate colleague behaviours and meet regulatory expectations.
We encourage and support a number of employee engagement forums and run Diversity and Inclusion groups for staff see page 40.
We are proactively managing any gender pay gaps within the Group.
