Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 the Report.
The Report includes the following: this introductory letter: the proposed new Remuneration Policy that, subject to shareholder approval, will apply to executive and non-executive Directors: how the Remuneration Policy approved in 2016 was implemented during the year: and the amounts earned by our executive and non-executive Directors.
The proposed new Remuneration Policy, on pages 95 to 103 is subject to a shareholder approval vote at the Annual General Meeting in May 2019.
The remainder of the Report is subject to a shareholder advisory vote at the same meeting.
It has been a busy year for the Remuneration Committee which has focused on the following key priorities during the year: RENEWAL OF REMUNERATION POLICY POLICY In order to prepare for the renewal of our Policy, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the approach to remuneration for our executive Directors and senior leadership team.
The review included an assessment of our Policy in the context of the Companys culture and strategic priorities, practice in the UK listed environment, the continued development of external expectations together with the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code which is applicable from 1 January 2019 2018 Code.
During the review, the Committee was also mindful of the remuneration policies and practices that will apply to the broader workforce population.
The outcome of this review confirmed that our existing remuneration framework continued to be appropriate and aligned with the Companys culture and strategic priorities, which has supported our performance to date.
As a result, we are not proposing to make any substantial changes to the overall opportunity or structure of remuneration, except for some minor amendments to align with best practice developments, including the 2018 Code.
The full Policy can be found on pages 95 to 103.
In summary, our Policy is aligned with best practice and comprises: Base salaries, with increases normally aligned with the general increase for the broader workforce population.
Pension, currently set at 15% of salary for executive Directors, which will reduce to 10% of salary for new hires.
Annual bonus of up to 150% of salary based on financial performance as well as individual objectives incorporating risk, customer and strategic measures including conduct and behaviours.
30% of bonus awards are deferred into shares for three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP award normal award level of 150% of salary.
Awards based on a financial measure currently earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR, with a holding period of two years following vesting.
The approach taken for executive Director pay is cascaded below the Board, as appropriate.
This has been an important feature of the Companys Policy and ensures that the senior leadership team is focused on the delivery of the same objectives and success is shared appropriately.
Looking at our wider workforce population, the Committee continues to believe that employee shareholding is central to the Companys working culture.
We are therefore pleased that during the year we have launched a new cycle of our sharesave plan for our UK employees to participate in, and have extended participation to all of our employees based in India, the Netherlands, South Africa and the US.
This follows the successful vesting of the previous plan that was introduced in 2015 shortly after the Companys IPO.
In recognition of the provisions of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and investor sentiment, the Committee is proposing a number of minor amendments to our Policy from 2019, which we believe shareholders will find positive: Reduction in pension The level of pension benefits offered to new appointments will be capped at 10% of salary in line with the contribution rates for other employees.
This is a reduction from the current pension allowance of 15% of salary.
Discretion We have built into our new Policy and our PSP documentation the ability for the Committee to apply discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome for PSP awards but always within plan limits as determined by the approved Policy.
This was already part of the annual bonus plan and the Committee has used discretion in previous years to reduce outcomes.
Any use of discretion would be clearly explained in the Remuneration Report.
Post-employment shareholding We have introduced a post-employment shareholding policy which will apply from 2019 onwards under which executive Directors will normally be required to retain a shareholding in the Company for a period of two years after leaving at the lower of the shareholding requirement in place prior to departure or the actual shareholding on departure.
Further details are set out in this report on page 114.
The Policy is being proposed for shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 2 May 2019 and we recommend shareholders to vote in favour of it.
92 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 CHANGE IN REMUNERATION ADVISER As part of the process for reviewing the Policy, the Committee also undertook a tender of the remuneration adviser.
This resulted in Deloitte being appointed as the Companys new remuneration adviser and it has assisted in the review of the Policy.
I would like to thank New Bridge Street for its advice to the Committee over the last three years.
Further details of the tender process can be found on page 105.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE An external evaluation of the Committee was undertaken during the year by Lintstock.
Details of the 2018 evaluation and its results can be found on page 69.
As highlighted as an area to address in the 2017 evaluation, the Committee has benefited from improved Committee papers, both in terms of the quality of the information provided and in the timing of being delivered to the Committee.
REMUNERATION FOR 2018 2018 was a year of pleasing progress against the Companys strategic objectives, with record organic growth of 7.3% and a successful entry into the attractive US market.
Despite the uncertain operating environment, the Company continued to grow its revenues ahead of expectations.
The launch into the US is proving successful, with the EQ US acquisition giving the Company a capability in the worlds largest market for our services.
Market share has been gained and new services are being introduced as EQ USs relatively narrow client product set is being expanded.
In the UK, the Company has continued to strengthen its share registration business and has won around 70% of UK main-market IPO mandates, including the largest new issues such as Aston Martin and Avast.
The Company has also won additional mandates from its competitors.
All divisions have been successful in winning new clients.
The Committee reviewed performance against the targets set for the annual bonus in 2018.
As in previous years, these targets were profit before tax, revenue and operating cash flow conversion, together with personal objectives agreed at the start of the year.
Taking into account the strong performance achieved in revenue, profit, and cash terms, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were awarded 69% of their total potential bonus for the year.
In line with our policy, 30% of the award will be deferred for three years.
Of the PSP award granted in March 2016, 88.75% of the award will vest in March 2019, reflecting the average annual growth in earnings per share growth of 10.2% over the performance period, together with our total shareholder return performance relative to the FTSE 250.
In addition, the PSP award granted to Directors on IPO of the Company in 2015 vested during the year in October.
In line with reporting requirements, half of this award was included in the single figure table last year, with the balance shown this year.
Based on our earnings per share and TSR performance, this award vested in full.
Both sets of PSP awards are subject to a further two year holding period.
REMUNERATION FOR 2019 The Committee has approved an increase in base salaries for the executive Directors of 2.5% in line with the increase awarded to employees throughout the Group.
There will be no change in the maximum award levels under the annual bonus or PSP for 2019.
For the bonus, the weighting of measures has been reviewed, together with the specific targets which will apply under the PSP.
Further details are set out in the At a Glance table on the following page.
RESPONSE TO 2018 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE During the year, the Committee discussed the 2018 Code.
We have made good progress in implementing the remuneration related provisions of the 2018 Code, including the changes to our Policy to reduce the pension provision for new hire of executive Directors, to provide the opportunity for additional discretion over remuneration outcomes and the introduction of a post-employment shareholding requirement.
The Committees remit is already consistent with the 2018 Code, but we are exploring ways in which the Committee may have greater visibility of pay and policies for the wider workforce population.
We will keep this under review and will report fully on this next year.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Committee considers investor feedback and the AGM voting results each year and we were pleased to receive a high level of support for the 2017 Remuneration Report with over 99% of votes cast in favour.
We undertook a consultation with our major institutional shareholders and proxy advisors concerning the proposed Policy, soliciting their feedback on the proposals.
I would like to thank those shareholders for their helpful input, which plays an important part in developing responsible pay practices.
I would like to thank my fellow Committee members, and those who support the Committee, for their commitment and guidance during the year.
I look forward to receiving your continued support at the AGM to be held in May.
Dr Tim Miller Chair of the Remuneration Committee 93 12 March 2019 AT A GLANCE: IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 AND KEY DECISIONS FOR 2018 The table below summarises how key elements of the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2019 and key decisions taken by the Committee in relation to base pay and incentives for executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
Element Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Guy Wakeley John Stier Base salary from 1 April 2019 471,500 328,000 Pension 15% cash in lieu of pension 15% cash in lieu of pension Annual bonus Maximum: 150% Maximum: 150% Annual bonus measures Financial: Reported profit before tax 40% : Total reported revenues 40% : and Operating Cash Flow Conversion 20%.
Non-financial: Performance against the individual non-financial metrics act as a multiplier ranging from 0 to 150%, determined through the Remuneration Committees review of performance against personal objectives, with a multiplier of 100% for good performance.
A cap on the overall bonus pool to ensure above target bonus payments do not exceed 40% of incremental profit in excess of budget.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 30% of earned bonus is compulsorily deferred into an award over shares, which normally vest after three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP Maximum 150% Maximum 150% PSP measures Three year vesting period.
EPS 50% of award average normalised EPS growth over three financial years.
An EPS growth range of 6% to 12% will apply to the 2019 awards.
TSR 50% of award relative to the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
Holding requirement Vested shares from the PSP to be held for two years post vesting after payment of tax.
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary within five years of appointment to the Board.
A post-employment shareholding requirement will also apply.
Malus and clawback Recovery and withholding mechanisms apply for a period of three years from the date of payment for the annual bonus.
Recovery and withholding mechanisms apply for a period of at least three years from the date on which an award vests under the PSP.
At the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Changes for 2019 Change in bonus weightings, as detailed above.
The threshold EPS target for the 2019 PSP awards will revert to 6% p. a in line with the 2015, 2016 and 2017 awards.
Year-end decisions made: 1 April salary review 2.5% 2.5% 2018 Bonus outcome: Value 476,404 329,494 % of salary 104% 103% % of maximum 69% 69% Non-executive directors No change 94 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Our first Remuneration Policy was approved by our shareholders at our AGM on 26 April 2016.
Shareholders are now being asked to approve a new Remuneration Policy 2019 Remuneration Policy at our AGM on 2 May 2019 which it is intended will apply for the next three financial years.
During 2018, the Committee reviewed the 2016 Remuneration Policy to ensure that the policy continues to be aligned with best practice.
The Committee consulted with our largest shareholders in respect of the proposed changes and took shareholders feedback into account when finalising the revised 2019 Remuneration Policy.
The paragraph below provides an overview of the main changes that are proposed in respect of the 2019 Remuneration Policy.
The full 2019 Remuneration Policy that shareholders are asked to approve is set out on pages 95 to 103.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE 2019 AND 2016 POLICIES The differences between the 2019 Remuneration Policy and the Directors Remuneration Policy approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2016 are: the reduction of pension benefits for newly appointed executive Directors from 15% to 10% of salary, in line with the level of benefit for the wider workforce: the introduction of the discretion to override formulaic outcomes under the Companys Performance Share Plan, in line with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code: the introduction of a post-employment shareholding requirement: and minor changes to the drafting of the 2019 Remuneration Policy in accordance with market practice and best practice guidance.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys short and long-term strategic objectives.
Operation Element Purpose and link to policy Opportunity including framework used to assess performance Base Salary Provides a competitive and Set at a level which provides a fair reward for the role There is no formal appropriate level of basic and which is competitive amongst relevant peers.
However, fixed pay, to help attract increases will normally be Normally reviewed but not necessarily increased and retain Directors with in line with the general annually with any changes taking effect from 1 April the skills and experience increase for the broader each year.
required to deliver Equinitis employee population.
More Set taking into consideration individual and Group strategic goals and business significant increases may be performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities objectives.
awarded from time to time, of each role, the experience of each individual, his or to recognise, for example, Reflects an individuals her marketability and Equinitis key dependencies on development in an experience, performance the individual.
individuals role and change and responsibilities within Reference is also made to salary levels amongst in position or responsibility.
relevant peers and other companies of equivalent Current salary levels are size and complexity.
disclosed in the Annual The Committee considers the impact of any basic Report on Remuneration.
salary increase on the total remuneration package.
Benefits Provides a competitive, The main benefits provided currently include a A car allowance of 15,000 appropriate and cost company car allowance, private medical insurance is provided.
The cost of the provision of The benefits provided may be subject to minor other benefits varies from amendment from time to time by the Committee year to year depending within this policy.
on the cost to Equiniti and there is no prescribed In addition, executive Directors are eligible for other maximum limit.
However, benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce the Committee monitors on broadly similar terms.
Equiniti may also reimburse annually the overall cost any reasonable business related expenses including of the benefits provided, tax thereon incurred in connection with their role, if to ensure that it remains these are determined to be taxable benefits.
95 Operation Element Purpose and link to policy Opportunity including framework used to assess performance Pension Provides a competitive, Each executive Director has the right to participate in Pension contributions and appropriate and cost one of Equinitis defined contribution pension plans or cash allowances in lieu of effective pension package.
or elect to be paid some or all of their contributions pension contributions are in cash.
capped at 15% of salary for current executive Directors.
Pension benefits for new appointments will be capped at 10% of salary in line with the level of benefit for the wider workforce.
Annual Bonus Incentivises the execution of Paid annually, the bonus is subject to achievement The maximum bonus key annual goals, by driving of a combination of stretching corporate financial payable to executive and rewarding performance and personal performance measures.
Financial Directors is 150% of base against individual and measures determine the majority of the annual bonus salary.
The bonus payable at the minimum level of Compulsory deferral of a The Committee has overall discretion to adjust the performance varies proportion into Equiniti extent to which bonuses are paid in line with the from yearto-year and is shares provides alignment 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
dependent on the degree with shareholders.
30% of bonus earned will be deferred into awards of stretch in the targets set.
over shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan the DABP, with awards normally vesting after a three-year period.
The Committee has the discretion to increase the deferral percentage if required.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions as set out in the notes to this table.
Performance Rewards the achievement Annual awards of performance shares which normally The maximum opportunity Share Plan of sustained long-term vest after three years, subject to performance for executive Directors PSP financial performance and conditions and continued service.
Performance is 150% of base salary.
In shareholder returns and is normally tested over a period of at least three exceptional circumstances, is therefore aligned with financial years.
Awards are subject to a financial this may be increased to the delivery of value to growth measure and total shareholder return TSR 300% of salary.
Facilitates relative to the constituents of a relevant comparator share ownership to provide index or peer group.
further alignment with 25% of the award vests at threshold, with straightshareholders.
line vesting for performance between threshold and Granting of annual awards maximum.
From 2019 awards onwards, the Committee has the overall discretion to adjust the extent to which awards will vest in line with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following vesting, a further holding period normally two years will apply to the awards whereby executive Directors will be restricted from selling the net of tax shares which vest.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, as set out in the notes to this table.
96 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Operation Element Purpose and link to policy Opportunity including framework used to assess performance All-employee Encourages employee share Equiniti may from time to time operate all-employee The schemes are subject to share plans ownership and therefore share plans such as the HMRC approved Save As You the limits set by HMRC from increases alignment with Earn Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan for which time to time.
executive Directors are eligible to participate on the same terms as other employees.
Shareholding Encourages executive Each executive Director must build up and maintain Not applicable.
guideline Directors to build a a shareholding in Equiniti equivalent to 200% of base meaningful shareholding salary within five years of their appointment to the in Equiniti, so as to Board.
further align interests with shareholders.
MALUS AND CLAWBACK Malus and clawback provisions apply to the annual bonus and PSP awards in the case of: gross misconduct: material misstatement of Equinitis results or accounts: an error made in assessing the satisfaction of any performance conditions applicable to the award: or other such adverse circumstances determined by the Committee which might include fraud, material reputational damage and or corporate failure.
These provisions apply in respect of annual bonus awards within three years of the date of payment cash and DABP, and in respect of PSP awards for a period up to three years of vesting.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS The table below sets out the rationale for the performance conditions chosen for annual bonus and PSP and how the targets are set.
How targets are set Element Performance measures and rationale Annual bonus Financial and personal performance measures.
The Committee reviews the focus each year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the Financial measures are set taking account of Equinitis key business in the year ahead.
operational objectives but will typically include measures of revenue, profitability and a cash flow metric as these are A target range is set for each performance measure KPIs aligned with Equiniti's strategy.
to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch performance and budgeted Personal performance objectives are agreed by the performance against the financial metrics.
Committee at the beginning of the year and will typically include measures relating to risk, client and or key strategic goals, as well as individual conduct and behaviours.
Performance Financial growth measure and TSR performance.
The Committee will review the choice of performance Share Plan measures and the appropriateness of the performance Relative TSR has been selected as it reflects targets and TSR peer group prior to each PSP grant.
comparative performance against a broad index of companies.
It also aligns the rewards received by Different performance measures and or weightings may executives with the returns received by shareholders.
be applied for future awards as appropriate.
However, the Committee will consult in advance with major Average growth in normalised EPS has been used as shareholders prior to any significant changes being made.
a performance measure as it rewards improvement in Equinitis underlying financial performance and is a measure of Equinitis overall financial success.
97 USE OF DISCRETION The Committee operates various incentive plans according to their respective rules.
To ensure the efficient operation and administration of these plans, the Committee retains discretion in relation to a number of areas.
Consistent with market practice, these include but are not limited to the following: selecting the participants: the timing of grant and or payment: the size of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the Policy Table : the form of awards granting awards as conditional awards, nil-cost options exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the grant date, or equivalent instruments : the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance and any other factors the Committee considers relevant: determination of a good leaver and where relevant the extent of vesting in the case of the share-based plans: treatment in exceptional circumstances such as a change of control, in which the Committee would act in the best interests of Equiniti and its shareholders: making the appropriate adjustments to awards required in certain circumstances such as rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : cash settling awards in exceptional circumstances where it is not commercially feasible to settle awards in shares: and the annual review of performance measures, weightings and setting targets for the discretionary incentive plans, from year to year.
Any performance conditions may be amended or substituted if one or more events occur which cause the Committee to reasonably consider that the performance conditions would not, without alteration, achieve their original purpose.
Any varied performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy in the circumstances.
Awards granted under the Companys share plans may incorporate the right to receive the value of dividends, which would have been paid on the shares that vest in respect of dividend dates occurring during the vesting period and where awards are subject to a holding period the holding period.
This amount will normally be delivered in shares but may be delivered in cash in exceptional circumstances where it is not commercially feasible to deliver in shares.
The amount may be calculated assuming the dividends had been reinvested in the Companys shares.
LEGACY AWARDS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the 2019 Remuneration Policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i. before 26 April 2016 the date on which the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii.
before the 2019 Remuneration Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii.
at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES The policy described in the previous table applies specifically to the executive Directors of Equiniti.
In practice, the Committee also has responsibility for setting the policy for, and determining the remuneration of senior management roles at Equiniti, being those roles on the Executive Committee and the Operating Committee, including the Company Secretary.
In all cases, the Committee is mindful of the remuneration policy which applies for the broader workforce and seeks to ensure that the underlying principles which form the basis for decisions on executive Director and senior management pay are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken.
For example, the Committee takes into account the general salary increase for the broader employee population when conducting the salary review for the executive Directors.
The range of information reviewed by the Committee on broader workforce remuneration and related policies will be extended during 2019 in line with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee believes that the structure of senior management reward at Equiniti should be linked to Group strategy and performance.
A greater proportion of the package for senior leadership roles is therefore based on performance-based pay through the quantum and participation levels in incentive schemes.
This ensures the remuneration of the executive Directors and the senior leadership team is aligned with the performance of Equiniti and therefore the interests of shareholders.
98 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 For the broader workforce, we have a commitment to responsible levels of pay in all of our geographies including a long-term commitment to paying the Real Living Wage in the UK.
All-employee share ownership is encouraged through the use of all-employee share plans.
During 2018, a new cycle of the Sharesave Plan launched with participation extended to all of our key international locations.
Circa 66% of the Group's employees are currently participating in these all-employee share plans The table below explains how the 2019 Remuneration Policy has been cascaded below executive Directors, to achieve alignment of policy across the Company.
Element Difference in remuneration policy for other employees Base salary The same principles and considerations that are applied to the executive Directors are, as far as possible, applied to all employees.
Benefits Equiniti has provisions for market-aligned benefits for all employees.
Pension The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The maximum company contribution under the defined contribution schemes is 10% of salary.
Annual bonus Approximately 500 members of the management team are eligible for a bonus award under The Leadership Incentive Scheme.
Deferred Annual Members of the Executive Committee normally have 30% of their earned bonus deferred into an award over Bonus Plan shares on the same terms as the executive Directors.
DABP Performance The PSP is typically awarded to members of the Executive Committee and key individuals in the Senior Share Plan PSP Management Team.
Options are normally granted at a discount to the market value.
Share Incentive An all-employee plan.
Employees can typically purchase up to 1,800 of partnership shares each year from gross Plan salary.
For every three partnership shares participants purchase they normally receive two free matching shares, on the first 180 that they invest annually.
CONSIDERATIONS OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP In line with Equinitis broader remuneration framework, which is intended to ensure consistency and common practice across Equiniti, and in determining the overall levels of remuneration of the executive Directors, the Committee also pays due regard to pay and conditions elsewhere in the organisation.
The Committee did not consult directly with the broader workforce on the 2019 Remuneration Policy.
Following the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, during 2019 the Board will be putting in place arrangements to facilitate engagement with the broader workforce on a range of matters including remuneration.
The Committee reviews the design of all share incentive plans operated by Equiniti for approval by the Board and shareholders where appropriate.
For such plans, the Committee determines each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior management, and the performance targets to be used.
The Committee is responsible for determining the proportion of share based awards which vest following the end of the relevant performance period.
The Committee also reviews the recommendations of the Equiniti Financial Services Limited Remuneration Committee and approves, where appropriate, certain Code Staff bonus and salary recommendations.
CONSIDERATIONS OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS Equiniti values and is committed to dialogue with its shareholders.
The Committee regularly considers investor feedback and the voting results received in relation to relevant AGM resolutions each year.
As part of the development of the 2019 Remuneration Policy the Committee engaged with a number of Equinitis largest shareholders before finalising the proposed changes and the views of those shareholders informed the final 2019 Remuneration Policy.
99 APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION In the event of hiring a new executive Director, the ongoing remuneration package would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Directors Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment and the maximum limits set out therein.
Salaries may be set below market level initially with a view to increasing them to the market rate subject to individual performance and developing into the role by making phased above-inflation increases.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other executive Directors, although these may be varied for an overseas appointment taking account of local market practice.
Annual bonus payments will not exceed 150% of base salary and PSP payments will not normally exceed 150% of base salary not including any arrangements to replace forfeited entitlements.
In all cases, PSP awards will be within the overall 300% of base salary exceptional limit in the plan.
Where necessary, specific annual bonus and PSP targets and different vesting and or holding periods may be used for an individual for the first year of appointment, if it is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they joined the Board.
A PSP award can be made shortly after an appointment assuming Equiniti is not in a close period.
The Committee retains flexibility to offer additional cash and or share based awards on appointment, to take account of remuneration or benefit arrangements forfeited by the individual on leaving a previous employer.
If shares are used, such awards may be made under the terms of the PSP or as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Such payments would take into account the nature of awards forfeited and would reflect as far as possible performance conditions, the expected value foregone and the time over which they would have vested or been paid.
Awards may be made in cash if Equiniti is in a close period at the time an executive joins.
The Committee may agree that Equiniti will meet certain relocation, legal, tax equalisation and any other incidental expenses as appropriate so as to enable the recruitment of the best people including those who need to relocate.
Where a new executive Director is an internal promotion, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, and adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
Element of Maximum percentage of salary remuneration Maximum variable pay comprising: 300% 450% in exceptional circumstances Annual bonus 150% Performance Share Plan PSP 150% 300% in exceptional circumstances Pension 10% pension contributions cash in lieu of pension Note: Maximum percentage of salary for annual bonus and PSP excludes compensation for awards forfeited.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS The policy for service contracts for executive Directors is shown in the table below.
Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at Equinitis registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months' notice from the Company 12 months' notice from the Director 100 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Provision Detailed terms Termination payment An executive Directors employment may be terminated by a payment in lieu of notice comprising: Base salary Benefits Pension allowance Any payment in lieu of notice may be paid in instalments and be subject to mitigation should the executive Director find alternative employment during any unexpired notice period.
An executive Directors service contract may be terminated summarily without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, if they are deemed to be guilty of gross misconduct or for any other material breach of the obligations under their employment contract.
If the employment of an executive Director is terminated in other circumstances, compensation may include base salary due for any unexpired notice period, pro-rata bonus subject to the performance conditions having been achieved in respect of the proportion of the financial year up to the date of termination and any amount assessed by the Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits and pension which would have been received during the period.
Equiniti may choose to continue providing some benefits instead of paying a cash sum representing their cost.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice and provision of outplacement services would be paid as necessary.
Treatment of annual bonus on termination Any bonus paid to a departing executive would normally be paid in cash, at the normal payment under plan rules date, and reduced pro-rata to reflect the actual period worked.
Treatment of unvested share-based Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive Director under Equinitis share plans will entitlements be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Usually, any outstanding awards lapse when the individual ceases to be a director or employee of the Group.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury, disability, retirement with the consent of the Committee, the sale of the entity that employs him or her by Equiniti or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
Where good leaver treatment applies under the PSP, outstanding unvested awards will normally vest at the original vesting date to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied, and would normally be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by Equiniti as a proportion of the vesting period.
The Committee retains the discretion to vest awards and measure performance accordingly on cessation and or to dis-apply time pro-rating.
If an executive Director leaves holding vested awards subject to a holding period, the holding period will normally continue to apply to these awards, unless the Committee decides to bring the holding period to a close.
Under the DABP, unvested awards will vest at the original vesting date unless the Committee exercises its discretion and allows the award to vest in full on or shortly following the date of cessation.
In determining whether a departing executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
Change of control Outstanding PSP awards on a takeover, winding up, or, if the Committee considers it appropriate, any other corporate event which will materially affect the Companys share price, will vest and be released from any relevant holding period early to the extent that the performance condition, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, has been satisfied, and could be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date of the relevant corporate event, as a proportion of the vesting period.
The Committee would retain discretion to waive time pro-rating, if it felt it was appropriate to do so.
DABP awards will vest in full at the time of the corporate event.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on a basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
Exercise of discretion In determining whether a departing executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
101 POST-EMPLOYMENT SHARE INTERESTS The Committee has a policy to promote interests in share awards following cessation of employment to enable former executive Directors to remain aligned with the interest of shareholders for an extended period after leaving the Company.
Further details of this policy are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 114.
THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES The table below sets out the 2019 Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
For a new Chairman or nonexecutive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
Operation Element Purpose and link to policy Opportunity including framework used to assess performance Non-executive To attract and retain a The Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee.
The fees are subject to Director fees high-calibre Chairman and maximum aggregate limits, The non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee with non-executive Directors by as set out in Equinitis additional fees paid to reflect extra responsibilities offering market competitive Articles of Association and or time commitments, for example the Chairs fee levels.
of the main Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee is guided by the general increase If there is a temporary yet material increase in the for the broader employee time commitments for non-executive Directors, the population, but on Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata basis to occasions may need to recognise the additional workload.
recognise, for example, The level of fees is reviewed periodically by the changes in responsibility, Committee and Chief Executive for the Chairman and and or time commitments.
by the Chairman and executive Directors for the nonCurrent fee levels are executive Directors and set taking into consideration disclosed in the Annual market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, Report on Remuneration.
the time commitment and responsibilities of the role and to reflect the experience and expertise required.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in incentive arrangements or to receive benefits, save that they are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable business expenses and tax thereon.
They may also receive limited travel or accommodation related benefits in connection with their role as a Director including tax thereon if these are determined to be taxable benefits.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TERMS OF APPOINTMENT The Chairman and non-executive Directors have letters of appointment with Equiniti for an initial period of three years subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated at any time with immediate effect if he or she is removed as a Director by resolution at a general meeting or pursuant to the Articles.
At other times, three months' notice is required from either party.
The non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on termination of their appointment.
Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at Equinitis registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
102 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 ILLUSTRATIVE OUTCOMES FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS UNDER THE REMUNERATION POLICY Under the Directors Remuneration Policy, a significant proportion of total remuneration is linked to Equinitis performance.
The following charts illustrate how the executive Directors total pay package varies under four different performance scenarios: 1.
Maximum performance with 50% share price growth Under scenarios 1, 2 and 3 no share price growth is applied.
Dividends are excluded under all scenarios.
All assumptions made under these scenarios are noted below: Maximum plus 50% Fixed pay only On-target Maximum share price growth Salary 2019 salary 2019 salary 2019 salary 2019 salary Benefits Estimated value of Estimated value of Estimated value of Estimated value of ongoing benefits ongoing benefits going benefits ongoing benefits Pension 15% of salary 15% of salary 15% of salary 15% of salary Annual 75% of salary budget 100% payout of maximum 100% payout of maximum bonus performance and 100% opportunity 150% of base opportunity 150% of base multiplier salary salary PSP 25% of maximum award 100% of maximum award 100% of maximum award 37.5% of salary 150% of salary 150% of salary Share price 0% 0% 50% growth applied to PSP award The executive Directors can participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the below charts.
This part is subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 2 May 2019.
Details of how we intend to operate our proposed 2019 Remuneration Policy and the remuneration earned by executive and non-executive Directors, the outcome of the incentive schemes, together with the link to the Companys performance, are provided in this part.
Where stated, disclosures regarding the Directors remuneration have been audited by the Companys independent external auditor, PwC.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Committee comprises only independent non-executive Directors and is chaired by Dr Tim Miller.
The members of the Committee who served during the year and as at the date of this report are shown in the table below, together with their attendance at the ten committee meetings held during the year or those held during their tenure: Name Attended Committee Chair: Dr Tim Miller 10 10 1 Mark Brooker 2 2 1 Alison Burns 8 8 Sally-Ann Hibberd 10 10 2 Vicky Jarman 1 3 1 Mark Brooker and Alison Burns were appointed to the Committee effective from 1 November and 1 April respectively.
2 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Committee effective from 3 May 2018.
She was unable to attend one meeting due to illness and another due to a prior commitment.
GOVERNANCE The Committee acts independently of management and reports and makes recommendations directly to the Board.
The Committees Terms of Reference state that the Committee shall be comprised of at least three independent non-executive Directors, one of whom should be Chairman of the Committee, and this was complied with in full during the year.
The Company Secretary, or their nominee, acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive, the Chief People & Transformation Officer and the external remuneration adviser to attend its meetings in full, although it reserves its rights to request any of those individuals to withdraw.
During the year, the Committee met with the Chief People & Transformation Officer without management and or any executive member of the Board being present.
The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Group.
It can obtain assurances and, when appropriate, reports from the directors of subsidiary companies which have appointed separate remuneration committees.
The Committee may take independent professional advice on any matters covered by its Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found in the investor section of Equinitis website: http: investors.
104 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee considers, agrees and recommends to the Board an overall remuneration policy and governance framework for executive Directors that is aligned to the Companys long-term business strategy and interests, business objective and values.
It sets the over-arching principles and parameters of the policy and determines the remuneration of the Chairman, the Board and senior executives.
The Committee also determines and recommends to the Board the remuneration strategy of the Company as it applies to the broader workforce.
The Committee currently receives information on wider pay practices and policies across the Group, but work will be undertaken during 2019 to broaden and deepen the Committees understanding in this area.
Its responsibilities include: Remuneration Policy working with the Board, senior management and internal teams including human resources, risk and audit to set, approve and implement a remuneration policy for the Groups senior executives executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee : ensuring that it adopts a coherent approach to remuneration in respect to the broader workforce: determining the contracts of employment, terms of service and remuneration of the Board chairman and executive Directors: determining the pensions policy for the broader workforce: approving the design of, and determining targets for, all performance related pay schemes operated by Equiniti and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, the Committee determines each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior management, and the performance targets to be used: ensuring performance objectives for executive Directors are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied and take due account of risk: reviewing and approving decisions made by the Remuneration Committee of Equiniti Financial Services Limited EFSL : Remuneration Policy Monitoring periodically reviewing, at least every three years, the overall appropriateness and effectiveness of all remuneration policies for the Company and its subsidiaries: and having regard to applicable good practices such as the Investment Association and Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association guidelines on executive contracts and severance and taking into account the Groups statutory duties in relation to equal pay and non-discrimination.
EXTERNAL REMUNERATION ADVISER The Committee has access to external advice as required.
During the year, Deloitte was appointed following a competitive tender process, replacing New Bridge Street, part of Aon plc.
Both Deloitte and New Bridge Street are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct which requires that its signatories provide objective and impartial advice.
The Code of Conduct can be found at www.
Deloitte has provided advice and support around the following key areas: reviewing the proposed new Remuneration Policy: advising on the performance share plan and deferred annual bonus plan: informing the Committee on market practice and governance issues: and responding to general and technical queries.
Both remuneration advisers were paid during their respective periods of appointment on a time worked basis.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street were 19,345 and to Deloitte were 91,700.
During its period of appointment, New Bridge Street was also the appointed remuneration adviser to the remuneration committee of EFSL, an FCA regulated company within the Group.
New Bridge Street did not provide any other services to the Group during their period of appointment.
Deloitte has provided other share scheme related advice to the Group during the year.
105 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The Committee met on ten occasions during the year.
At those meetings, some of which were telephone meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily included the following: reviewed and approved the 2017 performance review report, including feedback from the Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Audit Executive and Group HR Director: reviewed and approved the leadership incentive scheme out-turn: March reviewed and approved the 2018 remuneration recommendations, including objectives: reviewed and approved the 2018 Performance Share Plan grant: approved the 2018 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards: reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration report for inclusion within the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: reviewed the Remuneration Policy: reviewed and approved the Committees Terms of Reference: and received an update report from EFSL's remuneration committee.
reviewed the 2018 leadership incentive scheme structure and weightings: and reviewed the tender process for the remuneration adviser role.
April following the remuneration adviser tender, determined and recommended, to the Board, the appointment of Deloitte as the Committees remuneration adviser: and reviewed the current Remuneration Policy and discussed its renewal.
July reviewed the proposed Remuneration Policy, taking into account the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and its reporting requirements.
September reviewed and approved a grant of options under the Save-As-You-Earn scheme: and approved the vesting of the 2015 grant of options under the Performance Share Plan.
October reviewed and discussed a draft of the proposed 2019 Remuneration Policy: reviewed and approved amendments to the incentive scheme documents: and approved and ratified certain senior executives remuneration.
November reviewed performance updates against objectives for the share plans and leadership incentive schemes during the year: reviewed 2019 pay proposals for the workforce and senior leaders: and December received an update on the 2019 Remuneration Policy consultation.
106 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Fixed Pay '000s Variable Pay '000s Salary or Pension Annual 1 4 5 Benefits PSP SAYE Total 2 3 Fees Contributions Bonus Executive Directors Guy Wakeley 2018 460 18 69 476 2,503 4 3,530 2017 460 47 69 545 1,557 1 2,679 John Stier 2018 320 18 48 329 1,660 4 2,379 2017 308 18 46 367 1,033 1 1,773 Non-executive Directors Philip Yea 2018 200 200 2017 100 100 6 Mark Brooker 2018 9 9 2017 7 Alison Burns 2018 41 41 2017 Sally-Ann Hibberd 2018 65 65 2017 65 65 8 Vicky Jarman 2018 22 22 2017 73 73 9 Dr Tim Miller 2018 115 115 2017 115 115 6 Cheryl Millington 2018 9 9 2017 10 Darren Pope 2018 72 72 2017 57 57 11 Kevin Beeston 2018 2017 158 1 159 12 John Parker 2018 2017 56 56 1 Benefits - executive Directors are entitled to taxable benefits as described below: 000 Car Allowance Private Medical Insurance Life Assurance Total Guy Wakeley 15 2 1 18 John Stier 15 2 1 18 2 A cash allowance of 15% of base salary is received in lieu of pension contributions.
No executive Director participates in, or is a deferred member of, an Equiniti pension plan.
3 30% of the bonus shown above will be deferred into shares.
Further details of the DABP can be found on page 111.
4 The PSP value for 2017 includes the EPS element of 2015 PSP awards.
The performance of this element was measured to 31 December 2017.
For details of the performance conditions see page 112.
The value shown is based on the share price on vesting on 27 October 2018 of 2.213.
The PSP value for 2018 includes the TSR element of 2015 PSP awards and the full value of 2016 PSP awards.
The performance of the TSR element of 2015 PSP awards was measured to 27 October 2018.
The performance of the 2016 PSP awards was measured to 31 December 2018.
For details of the performance conditions see page 113.
The value shown is based on an estimated share price of 2.184, the three month average share price to 31 December 2018.
The values for 2018 include the impact of share price movements and dividends paid between grant and vesting, 660,994 for Guy Wakeley and 438,133 for John Stier.
5 Both executive Directors participate in the Sharesave Scheme and the first invitation matured on 1 January 2019.
The value shown is that at the end of the three-year savings period.
There are no performance conditions for this Scheme save being an employee of the Group at the maturity date.
6 Mark Brooker and Cheryl Millington both joined the Board effective from 1 November 2018.
7 Alison Burns joined the Board effective from 1 April 2018.
8 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Board effective from 3 May 2018.
9 The fees for Dr Tim Miller include the 50,000 that he receives for serving on the board of EFSL.
10 Darren Pope was appointed Audit Chair in November 2017 and Senior Independant Director in May 2018 11 Kevin Beeston stood down from the Board effective from 29 September 2017.
12 John Parker stood down from the Board effective from 30 September 2017.
107 ANNUAL NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Year Ending 31 December 2019 2018 % Change Board Chairman 200,000 200,000 0 Basic Fee 55,000 55,000 0 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 0 Additional fee for Committee Chair 10,000 10,000 0 VARIABLE PAY OUTCOMES AUDITED INFORMATION Annual Bonus For the financial year ended 31 December 2018, annual bonuses for the executive Directors were based on corporate financial and personal objectives.
A bonus of up to 150% of salary could be earned.
The Committee reviewed the achievements against the targets for the year through the annual performance review process.
The tables on pages 109 and 110 show the achievement against the financial and personal performance measures and the resulting bonus payments.
Corporate Financial Objectives The corporate financial metrics were based on profit before tax 50%, revenue 30% and operating cash flow conversion 20%.
Individual Personal Objectives and Individual Multiplier Performance Rating Maximum multiplier The individual personal objectives were set following Outstanding consultation between the Committee and each executive 150% Director, and are detailed in the table on page 110.
The High 125% individual multiplier ranges from 0 to 150%, determined through the Committee's review of performance against Good 100% personal objectives, with a multiplier of 100% for good performance.
The performance breakdown and resulting Off track 50% multiplier is shown in the table opposite: Low 0 A cap on the overall bonus pool will apply to ensure that bonus payments which are above target do not exceed 40% of incremental profit in excess of budget.
OUTCOME OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST INDIVIDUAL PERSONAL OBJECTIVES ACTS AS A MULTIPLIER WITH ANNUAL BONUS CALCULATED USING THE FOLLOWING FORMULA: Corporate Target bonus Individual Annual Salary financial opportunity multiplier bonus outcome The executive Directors have a target bonus opportunity of 100% of salary.
If budget performance is achieved against the corporate financial measures together with an individual multiplier of 100% for good performance, this would result in a bonus of 75% of salary.
108 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate Financial Outcome Actual % of target Weighting Threshold Budget Maximum Performance measures performance bonus % target 000s target 000s target 000s 000s payable 0% 75% 125% Profit before tax 50 23,157 25,730 30,876 24,643 21.7 Revenue 30 475,741 500,780 525,819 530,920 37.5 Operating cash flow conversion 20 90.0% 95.0% 100.0% 101.8% 25.0 Total 84.2 The performance of each of the executive Directors was assessed through the annual performance review process.
Based on their achievements the Committee has determined that each Directors performance was high for the personal element relating to their 2018 objectives, resulting in multipliers of 123% for Guy Wakeley and 122% for John Stier.
Further details of the objectives set and progress in the year are set out on page 110.
Individual multiplier Guy Wakeley John Stier Multiplier awarded 123% 122% 2018 Bonus Guy Wakeley John Stier Bonus amount achieved as % of salary 104% 103% Bonus amount achieved 476,404 329,494 Paid in cash 70% 333,483 230,646 Deferred in shares 30% 142,921 98,848 109 Individual non-financial objectives Guy Wakeley's objectives focused on: Evidenced by: Delivering a successful entry to the US market through Successful entry into the US market, with no material clients being the transition of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services lost and new business being won.
The transition to Sirius has not yet business now called EQ US been achieved, but there has been a flawless delivery of service since day one.
Technical separation from Wells Fargo almost completed.
US colleagues energy and engagement is high.
Maintaining sustainable earnings and dividend Sustainable earnings have been increased by single digit growth and progression the dividend has increased by double digits.
Increasing sales progression through the cross-sale of Divisional organic growth has increased by over 5%.
Good progress products and services has been made with the cross-sale of products.
There has been an increase in sales of the Groups regulation, data and cyber products.
Driving the simplification of Group strategy and structure The Group strategy was communicated to investors and analysts in to improve delivery of customer requirements and September 2018.
The strategy is well understood within the business shareholder value and amongst the investor base.
Materially improving the delivery of technology and An IT transformation programme has been created and resourced change and has delivered 3m of gross savings in 2018.
Full digitisation of our Corporate Shareholder Nominee product has been delivered.
A new share plan portal and client portals for the US are now in test.
Improving customer satisfaction and advocacy for B2B Corporate satisfaction of 94% and customer satisfaction of 98%.
and D2C customers Superbrand status now awarded for Equiniti and EQ.
The delivery of the next stages of improvement in Risk, The Group risk framework significantly advanced in 2018, with Audit and Compliance effectiveness divisional risk leaders being appointed and the Xactium risk framework deployed.
There is increased ownership and visibility of audit actions.
GDPR compliance has been delivered.
Demonstrating the ability to connect, inspire and deliver Group leadership training programme launched and delivered for leadership in support of the EQ Leadership model two cohorts.
Quarterly leadership evenings are now running and clear objectives have been set for 2019.
43% of vacancies are now filled by internal candidates.
John Stier's objectives focused on: Evidenced by: Concluding the implementation of the HR and finance The Workday finance and HR systems had been rolled out within the systems for Equiniti Trust Company, and building a US according to plan.
The new US billing system was on schedule to platform roadmap for the UK go live by the end of the first quarter in 2019.
Improving free cash flow yield through improvement Budgeted cash flow was outperformed and cash conversion of 102% in working capital, tax, interest payable and return on was delivered.
investment Supporting the negotiation and structuring of further The focus during the year was the integration of EQ US, which was due material combination opportunities to complete by June 2019.
Delivering a closing year end net leverage position of less This was out-performed, with very strong cash management.
Leverage than 2.6x inclusive of the US transformation costs was 2.5x against the budget of 2.6x.
Driving further benefit from Group procurement and Annualised savings of over 5m were delivered.
A new property property functions, with particular focus on offshore strategy has been implemented for the business to drive savings.
operations and the IT estate Ensuring that compliance and audit items were closed on All items had been closed in a timely manner during the year.
a definitive and timely basis Demonstrating the ability to connect, inspire and deliver During the year, a finance conference was launched, together with leadership in support of the EQ Leadership model quarterly web briefings for the finance team.
A succession plan has been put in place for the finance team.
110 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 DEFERRED ANNUAL BONUS PLAN AUDITED INFORMATION 30% of the bonus awarded in respect of the 2017 financial year was deferred into shares for three years subject to continued service and malus and clawback and is summarised along with previous awards in the table below.
2 The market price at date of grant was calculated using the prior days closing price PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP AUDITED INFORMATION The table below details the PSP awards granted to the executive Directors during the year together with those which were unvested at 31 December 2018.
The awards made were in line with the existing Remuneration Policy.
2 When PSP options are granted, the market price at date of grant is calculated using the prior days closing share price.
This is used to calculate the number of options to be granted to the participant and is not the price the participant has to pay to receive the options once they have vested.
The options are nilcost options which means that there is no price to be paid to receive them once they have vested.
However, the participant will have to pay income tax and national insurance at their respective tax rate on the overall market value of the vested award, priced at the time of exercise.
3 Following vesting, a further two year holding period applies to the PSP awards, details of which are provided in this report.
111 Awards granted under the PSP are nil-cost options and are subject to the following performance measures: Performance Weighting of Performance Target Measure Measure EPS growth 50% Average annual growth in the Companys fully diluted normalised earnings per share EPS over three financial years.
For 2015, 2016 and 2017 awards, if average growth in EPS over three financial years is 6% or more, 25% of the award will vest.
The award will vest in full for average growth of 12%, with payment on a sliding scale in between these points.
No award will vest if growth is below 6%.
For 2018 awards only, the threshold EPS target over three financial years was increased to 8% to reflect the impact of the WFSS acquisition in the first year of the performance period.
Relative TSR 50% Total shareholder return TSR performance over three financial years relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts on date of grant.
Vesting of 25% of the award will occur for median ranking and the award will vest in full for upper quartile or above ranking, with straight line vesting in between these points based on ranking.
No award will vest if TSR ranks below the median.
Vesting of 2015 PSP Award The first set of PSP awards granted in November 2015 vested in October 2018.
The Committee reviewed the performance conditions for the award and determined that 100% of the award vested in total.
Performance against both conditions is summarised below.
The EPS performance condition was based on the average annual growth in the Companys fully diluted normalised earnings per share over the 2016 and 2017 financial years, measured from a proforma EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 of 13.5p.
The TSR performance condition was measured over three years from November 2015 to October 2018.
Fully diluted % of this normalised EPS Average element of Measure Weighting Vesting scale Base EPS for year ended annual the award 31 December growth vesting 2017 Average annual 50% No vesting if average EPS 13.5p 16.9p 12.03% 100% growth in the growth is below 6%, 25% Companys vests if average EPS growth fully diluted is equal to 6%, 100% vests if normalised EPS average EPS growth is 12% or more.
Straight line pro rata vesting from 25% to 100% for average EPS growth between 6% and 12% Measure Weighting Vesting scale Performance achieved % of this element of the award vesting Relative TSR 50% No vesting if TSR ranks below Above upper quartile 100% the median.
25% vests if TSR is median ranking, 100% vests if TSR is upper quartile or above.
Straight line pro rata vesting from 25% to 100% for TSR ranking between median and upper quartile The number of shares that vested in October 2018 for each of the executive Directors as a result of this performance is shown in the 112 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 table below: Number of shares % that vested based on EPS Measure Number of shares that vested Value of shares at vesting subject to award and TSR performance Guy Wakeley 1,339,775 100% 1,407,537 3,114,870 John Stier 888,329 100% 933,258 2,065,300 This number includes dividend equivalent shares accrued during the three year vesting period as follows: 67,762 for Guy Wakeley and 44,929 for John Stier.
In accordance with the Regulations, the portion of the award based on EPS, being 50% of the values above, was included in the single figure table in the 2017 Annual Report.
Vesting of 2016 PSP Award The PSP awards granted in March 2016 will vest in March 2019.
The Committee reviewed the performance conditions for the award and determined that 88.75% of the award vested in total.
The EPS performance condition was based on the average annual growth in the Companys fully diluted normalised earnings per share over the 2016, 2017 and 2018 financial years.
The TSR performance condition was measured over three years from January 2016 to December 2018.
Fully diluted normalised Average % of this element Base Measure Weighting Vesting scale EPS for year ended annual of the award EPS 31 December 2018 growth vesting Average 50% No vesting if average 13.5p 17.9p 10.2% 77.5% annual EPS growth is below 6%, growth in the 25% vests if average EPS Companys growth is equal to 6%, fully diluted 100% vests if average normalised EPS growth is 12% or EPS more.
Straight line pro rata vesting from 25% to 100% for average EPS growth between 6% and 12% Relative performance % of this element of Measure Weighting Vesting scale TSR performance achieved the award vesting Relative TSR 50% No vesting if TSR ranks 42.5% Above upper quartile 100% below the median.
Straight line pro rata vesting from 25% to 100% for TSR ranking between median and upper quartile The number of shares that will vest in March 2019 for each of the executive Directors as a result of this performance is shown in the table below: Number of shares % that vested based on EPS Estimated value of shares Measure Number of shares that will vest subject to award and TSR performance at vesting Guy Wakeley 464,407 88.75% 433,005 945,683 John Stier 307,922 88.75% 287,100 627,026 This number includes dividend equivalent shares accrued during the three year vesting period as follows: 23,486 for Guy Wakeley and 15,572 for John Stier.
The value of the market price of the shares at vesting has been estimated based on the average market value over the last three months of 2018.
113 Post-vesting holding period Following vesting, a further two-year holding period will apply to the PSP awards, whereby executive Directors will be restricted from selling their interest in the net of tax shares which vest.
These vested shares will be held in an Equiniti investment product for the duration of the holding period.
SAVE-AS-YOU-EARN SCHEME SHARESAVE The Company offers a Sharesave scheme to all employees, including executive Directors.
Participants can save a sum of money each month for a period of three years.
Under the tax-approved limits, the maximum that each participant can save each month is 500, however this can be reduced and capped if the Sharesave is oversubscribed.
At the end of the three-year period, the money saved can either be returned to the participant or used to acquire shares in the Company at a price set at a 20% discount to a market price being an amount equal to the average of the daily middle-market quotation of a share over the three dealing days prior to the grant date.
2015 Grant The first grant under the Sharesave was when the Company listed in 2015.
The Sharesave was oversubscribed and the monthly limit was capped at 100 per month.
The grant price is 1.19 per share.
The original price, with the 20% discount was 1.27, however this was reduced to 1.19 following the rights issue on 17 October 2017.
The first grant matured on 1 January 2019.
Details of the number of shares are included in the Directors shareholding table on page 115.
2018 Grant The second grant under the Sharesave was made on 27 September 2018.
Again, the Sharesave was oversubscribed and the monthly limit was capped at 100 per month.
The Sharesave will mature in 2021.
The 2018 Grant was offered to all of our employees, including those in India, the Netherlands, South Africa and the US.
The terms of the Sharesave were the same for all participants, except for those in the US.
In the US, the savings period is only for a period of two years.
At the end of the two-year savings period, US employees are able to exercise their options, but are restricted from dealing in the shares for a further 12 month period.
The discount to the market price is also less for US participants 15% and therefore the grant price for US participants is 2.23.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN Executive Directors may participate in the Companys Share Incentive plan on the same basis as all other eligible employees.
Employees can purchase up to 1,800 of partnership shares each year from gross salary.
For every three partnership shares participants purchase, they receive two free matching shares on the first 180 that they invest annually.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION To align the interests of the executive Directors with shareholders, each executive Director must build up and maintain a beneficial shareholding, excluding share options, in the Company equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Executive Directors must meet the shareholding guideline within five years of appointment to the Board.
From 2019 onwards, executive Directors will normally be required to retain a shareholding in the Company for a period of two years after leaving at the lower of the shareholding requirement in place prior to departure or the actual shareholding on departure.
This applies to shares acquired from incentive plans and may include the net value of outstanding DABP awards and PSP awards subject only to a holding period.
The Committee will have discretion to operate the policy flexibly and may waive part or all of the requirement where considered appropriate, for example in compassionate circumstances.
It is intended that the policy will be supported by the use of nominee accounts.
As at 31 December 2018, the Chief Executive beneficially held shares with an equivalent value of 1,213% of his base salary and the Chief Financial Officer beneficially held shares with an equivalent value of 864% of his base salary.
Accordingly all executive Directors have met the shareholding requirements.
114 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Director Beneficial Share Interest Unvested share options Total Interest Vested PSP At 31 Dec 18 PSP with DABP with SAYE without subject to Leaving date conditions conditions conditions holding period 1 Guy Wakeley 1,170,574 1,407,537 1,065,040 86,758 5,059 3,734,968 1 John Stier 333,852 933,258 708,375 61,002 5,059 2,041,546 Philip Yea 160,000 160,000 Mark Brooker Alison Burns Sally-Ann Hibberd 2 Vicky Jarman 34,175 34,175 Dr Tim Miller 150,783 150,783 Cheryl Millington Darren Pope 1 The Partnership, Matching and Free shares that Guy Wakeley and John Stier hold in the Share Incentive Plan are included in the figure for beneficially owned shares 2 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Board effective from 3 May 2018.
On 2 January 2019, Guy Wakeley and John Stier both exercised 3,026 shares each from the 2015 Sharesave which matured on 1 January 2019.
These shares are included in the SAYE without conditions figures above.
There have been no further changes between 3 January 2019 and the date of this report.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance from listing in October 2015 to the end of the 2018 financial year, against the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts has been selected as it comprises companies of a comparable size and complexity and provides a good indication of the Companys relative performance.
119% 108% 97% 86% 75% 64% 53% EQUINITI 42% 31% FTSE 250 20% Excluding Investment Trusts 9% 2% 13% 24% 35% Oct Apr Sep Mar Aug Feb Jul Dec 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 115 CHIEF EXECUTIVES PAY IN THE LAST FIVE FINANCIAL YEARS The total remuneration of the Chief Executive over the last five years in shown in the table below: Year Ended 31 December 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Remuneration 000 3,529 3,106 965 2,743 528 Annual Bonus as % of maximum opportunity 69% 70% 57% 65% 37% 1 2 PSP vesting as % of maximum opportunity 95% 100% N A N A N A 1 2018 PSP vesting includes the weighted average of vesting outcomes for the TSR element of the 2015 PSP awards 100% of maximum and 2016 PSP awards 88.75% of maximum.
2 2017 PSP vesting includes the EPS element of the 2015 PSP awards.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION The table below shows the percentage change in each of the Chief Executives salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus earned in 2018 and 2017, compared to that for the average employee of the Group on a per capita basis : Guy Wakeley, Chief Executive Average Employee % change % change Salary 0 2.89 Benefits 62 0 Annual Bonus 12.6 10.33 The Chief Executive declined a salary increase for 2018, whereas the average increase for employees was 2.89%.
The Chief Executives benefits level declined 62% due to the repayment by him during 2018 of the loan made by the Company.
There were no changes in the level of benefits offered to employees.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below details the percentage change in dividends and overall expenditure on pay compared with the previous financial year: 2018 vs 2017 2018 2017 Total dividend paid 17% 5.32p 4.55p Total employee remuneration 26% 219.8m 174.6m PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED INFORMATION There were no payments for loss of office made in 2018.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION There were no payments made to any past Directors during the year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVING AS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Since March 2018, Guy Wakeley has served as a non-executive director of HgCapital Trust plc, for which he received a fee of 29,967 during the 2018 financial year.
He retained this fee in full.
OTHER SHAREHOLDING INFORMATION AUDITED INFORMATION Share Price The closing share price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2018, was 216.5p and the price range for financial year was 196.8p to 326.5p.
Shareholder Dilution Awards granted under the Companys share plans may be satisfied by shares purchased in the market or by the issue of new shares when awards vest.
The Board monitors the number of shares issued under the various share plans and the impact on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Investment Association in respect of share plans is 10% in any rolling ten-year period and in respect of discretionary share plans is 5% in any ten-year rolling period.
Based on the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2018, and assuming that all current awards made under the Companys share plans as at that date vest in full, the dilution level was 4.59% against all share plans and 2.72% against discretionary schemes.
116 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Director Loans As disclosed in previous Annual Reports, Advent transferred shares to certain Directors of the Group on IPO in 2015, in recognition of their contribution and management of the IPO process.
The shares were subject to lock up arrangements, as disclosed in the price range prospectus.
As the shares vested immediately, and were therefore taxable at the point of grant.
The Company lent three of those Directors who received the shares monies to cover their income tax and national insurance liabilities.
These loans were all subject to relevant approvals through the IPO process and were treated as a benefit in kind to the receiving individuals.
All benefiting individuals had entered into a loan agreement with the Company with these loans having to be repaid no later than April 2018.
All loans were repaid by this date and no amount remains outstanding.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Date of current contract Notice from Notice from Unexpired period of Date of appointment letter of appointment Company Director service contract Executive Directors Guy Wakeley 27 October 2015 7 September 2015 12 months 12 months Rolling contract John Stier 27 October 2015 11 September 2015 12 months 12 months Rolling contract Non-executive Directors Philip Yea 3 July 2017 30 June 2017 3 months 3 months 19 months Mark Brooker 1 November 2018 16 October 2018 3 months 3 months 34 months Alison Burns 1 April 2018 22 February 2018 3 months 3 months 27 months Sally-Ann Hibberd 27 June 2016 27 June 2016 3 months 3 months 6 months Dr Tim Miller 9 October 2015 23 April 2018 3 months 3 months 34 months Cheryl Millington 1 November 2018 16 October 2018 3 months 3 months 34 months Darren Pope 6 October 2016 6 October 2016 3 months 3 months 9 months Guy Wakeley joined the Group in January 2014 and John Stier joined the Group in June 2015.
When the Company listed in October 2015, they entered into new service contracts and their date of appointment to the listed company was 27 October 2015.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, renewable for a subsequent term of three years.
STATEMENT OF VOTING The voting outcome at the 2018 Annual General Meeting in respect of the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration reflected very strong shareholder support.
Shares voted 293,910,020 80.64% of shares in issue In Favour 292,353,295 99.47% of shares voted Against 1,556,725 0.53% of shares voted Withheld 152,141 The Companys current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 26 April 2016 with a very strong majority vote in favour.
Shares voted 227,611,057 75.87% of shares in issue In Favour 227,483,414 99.94% of shares voted Against 127,643 0.06% of shares voted Withheld Nil Dr Tim Miller Chair of the Remuneration Committee 12 March 2019 117 Directors Report INTRODUCTION DIRECTORS RETIREMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT Equiniti Group plc the Company is incorporated as a public All of the current Directors will retire and offer themselves for limited company, limited by shares, and is registered in England re-appointment at the 2019 AGM.
The Company is the The Companys Articles of Association regulate the appointment holding company for the Equiniti Group of companies the and removal of Directors, as does the Companies Act 2006 and Group.
The Companys registered office is Sutherland House, related legislation.
In general, the Directors may fill any casual Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1UH and its registrar vacancy in the number of Directors, subject to reappointment by is Equiniti Limited which is situated at Aspect House, Spencer shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
of Association also contain authority for shareholders by ordinary The Directors' present their report and audited financial resolution to remove any Director from office regardless of the statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018, terms of their appointment.
The Articles of Association may in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006.
The only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and Listing powers of the Directors are described in the Governance Report Rules also require the Company to make certain disclosures, on pages 62 to 63. some of which have been included in other appropriate sections DIRECTORS DUTIES of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors of the Company, as those of all UK companies, The Directors Report comprises pages 118 to 121, and the must act in accordance with a set of general duties.
These duties following cross-referenced material is incorporated into this are detailed in section 172 of the UK Companies Act 2006 which Directors Report: is summarised as follows: A director of a company must act in the way they consider, in Future Developments Going Concern good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the of the Business 21 Statement 71 company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole and, in doing so have regard amongst other matters to: Viability Statement 52 Statement of Disclosure of Information to Employees 38 the likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term: Auditors 71 Greenhouse Gas the interests of the companys employees: Financial Instruments Emissions 46 and Financial Risk the need to foster the companys business relationships with Governance Report 56 Management 85 suppliers, customers and others: Statement of Directors' the impact of the companys operations on the community Responsibilities 70 and environment: the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for The 2018 Annual Report and Accounts have been drawn up and high standards of business conduct: and presented in accordance with UK Company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be subject to the need to act fairly as between shareholders of the the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
DIRECTORS As part of their induction, a Director is briefed on their duties The Directors who have held office during the year ended and they can access professional advice on these, either from 31 December 2018 and to date are as follows: the Company Secretary or, if they judge it necessary, from an independent adviser.
It is important to recognise that in a large Philip Yea organisation such as ours, the Directors fulfil their duties partly Guy Wakeley through a governance framework that delegates day-to-day John Stier decision-making to employees of the Company and details of Mark Brooker appointed 1 November 2018 this can be found in our Governance Report on pages 66 to 67.
Alison Burns appointed 1 April 2018 The following paragraphs summarise how the Directors fulfil Vicky Jarman resigned 3 May 2018 their duties: Sally-Ann Hibberd Dr Tim Miller Risk Management Cheryl Millington appointed 1 November 2018 We provide business-critical services to our clients, often in Darren Pope highly regulated environments.
As we grow, our business and our risk environment also become more complex.
It is therefore Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 58 vital that we effectively identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate to 59. the risks we face, and that we continue to evolve our approach to risk management.
118 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 For details of our principal risks and uncertainties, and how we DIRECTORS INSURANCE manage our risk environment, please see pages 48 to 51 and our A Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy is maintained Risk Committee report on pages 80 to 85. for all of our Directors and each Director has the benefit of a Deed of Indemnity given by the Company.
Our People THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY The Company is committed to being a responsible business.
Our The Group has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions behaviour is aligned with the expectations of our people, clients, for its Directors, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that investors, communities and society as a whole.
People are at the may incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company, heart of our specialist services.
For our business to succeed we its subsidiaries or associates, which were in force during the year need to manage our peoples performance and develop and and remain in force at the date of this report.
bring through talent while ensuring we operate as efficiently as possible.
We must also ensure we share common values that DIVIDEND inform and guide our behaviour so we achieve our goals in the The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy, reflecting right way.
the Companys long-term earnings and cash flow potential.
We For further details on our people, please see pages 38 to 41. target a pay-out ratio of 30% of underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders which is split one-third and two-thirds Business Relationships between interim and final dividends respectively.
Our strategy prioritises organic growth, driven by cross-selling The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.49 pence and up-selling services to existing clients and bringing new per share which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 clients into the Group.
To do this, we need to develop and AGM, will result in a full year dividend of 5.32 pence per share maintain strong client relationships.
We value all of our suppliers including the interim dividend of 1.83 pence per share.
The and have multi-year contracts with our key suppliers.
final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2019 to shareholders on the For further details on how we work with our clients and suppliers, register of members at close of business on 12 April 2019.
Any please see pages 42 to 43. shareholder wishing to participate in the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan needs to have submitted their election to do Community and Environment so by 24 April 2019.
The Companys approach is to use our position of strength to create positive change for the people and communities with CHARITABLE DONATIONS which we interact.
We want to leverage our expertise and enable We are committed to being a responsible corporate colleagues to support the communities around us.
citizen through support for appropriate charitable projects, organisations and charities.
There are no Group sponsored For further details on how with interact with communities and the charities.
However there are numerous charitable efforts carried environment, please see pages 44 to 46. out within the regions in which we are located.
The Group also Culture and Values aims to promote economic and social wellbeing around all of our The Board recognises the importance of having the right locations and is active in supporting local community projects corporate culture.
Our long-term success depends on achieving and initiatives, including supporting a number of local schools our strategic goals in the right way, so we look after the best and investing in young talent.
interests of our clients, people and other stakeholders.
Through POLITICAL DONATIONS the use of employee and management workshops, we identified During 2018, the Equiniti Group did not make any donations to four core values that govern how we act as a business.
Details of political parties or organisations, however it does support certain these, plus further details on our corporate culture, can be found industry-wide bodies and allows employees time to undertake on pages 38 to 39. trade union activities.
Accordingly as a precautionary measure, Shareholders authority is to be sought at the 2019 AGM to make limited political donations or incur political expenditure and there is a The Board is committed to openly engaging with our full explanation in the explanatory note of Resolution 19 to the shareholders, as we recognise the importance of a continuing 2019 AGM Notice.
effective dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
It is important to us that RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT shareholders understand our strategy and objectives, so these In order to derive new solutions and to enhance our client must be explained clearly, feedback heard and any issues or and customer experiences, improve our services and products questions raised properly considered.
and meet the ever changing regulatory requirements for the For further details on how we engage with our shareholders, services we provide, the Group continues to commit resources please see page 43. to the development of new and improved technologies and capabilities.
Expenses incurred are required to be capitalised DIRECTORS' INTERESTS when it is probable that future economic benefits will be Details of the Directors' share interests in the Company can be attributable to the asset and that costs can be measured reliably, found on page 115. in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and our accounting policies.
119 EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Company believes that people with health conditions should The Company has one class of share capital: ordinary shares of have full and fair consideration for all vacancies and will interview 0.001 each shares, which rank equally in all respects.
The rights those people with disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria.
For attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of those employees in the workforce who become disabled during Association and details of the issued share capital as at employment, the Company will arrange appropriate retraining 31 December 2018 and of the movements during the year are and adjust employees environments where possible to allow set out in note 6.2 to the financial statements on page 164. them to maximise their potential and continue to work with the There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the Company.
exercise of voting rights, except in circumstances where: The Group has in place a Disability and Mental Health Taskforce, i. the Company has exercised its right to suspend the voting further details of which can be found on page 41. rights or to prohibit the transfer of shares, as a result of the failure by the shareholder to provide us with information CHANGE OF CONTROL SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS requested by us in accordance with part 22 of the Companies In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other Act 2006: or than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested ii.
the shareholder is prohibited from exercising voting rights by executive Director and employee share awards may in certain the Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Such circumstances may, but The Company operates a share incentive scheme open to all do not necessarily, depend on the achievement of performance employees.
The Trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust abstain conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
from voting the shares held in the Trust.
Except as noted above The Company does not have any agreements with any Director any shares acquired through a share incentive scheme rank or officer that provide for compensation for loss of office or equally with existing shares and have no additional or special employment resulting from a takeover.
The Company has facility rights.
arrangements with its bank lenders which contain provisions AMENDMENT TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF giving those lenders certain rights on a change of control.
ASSOCIATION Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other significant Any amendments to the Articles of Association may be made in agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover way of a shareholders special resolution.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS There have been no material events between 31 December 2018 As at 28 February 2019, the latest practicable date before the and the date of signing this Annual Report and Accounts that publication of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Company would require disclosure.
was aware that the following shareholders held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys ordinary EXTERNAL AUDITOR shares at that date: Having conducted an effectiveness and independence assessment during the year, as described in the Audit Committee Number of ordinary Report on page 78, the Audit Committee has recommended to Shareholder shares the Board the reappointment of PwC as the Group's external auditor.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office.
Mondrian Investment Partners 32,872,362 Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, Paradice Investment Management 27,125,630 a resolution to reappoint PwC will be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
The Audit Committee will be responsible for Invesco 25,696,533 determining the audit fee on behalf of the Board.
GVQ Investment Management 22,352,704 Woodford Investment 18,204,925 Management Rathbone plc 17,128,430 Standard Life Aberdeen 15,443,445 Lazard 15,201,719 Blackrock Inc 13,332,931 BNP Paribas Group 12,368,641 CRUX Asset Management 12,007,114 120 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 AUTHORITY TO ALLOT AND PURCHASE SHARES The Company was granted authority at our 2018 Annual General Meeting to allot equity securities up to a nominal amount of 121,489.67, subject to certain restrictions, and allot equity securities up to a nominal amount of 18,223.45 on a non-preemptive basis, subject to certain restrictions.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 a total of 102,383 ordinary shares were allotted at an average price of 119 pence per share, to satisfy the share options exercised under the Equiniti Group UK Sharesave Plan during that period.
At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Company was also granted authority to make market purchases of up to 36,446,900 of its own ordinary shares, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions to renew these authorities and permit Directors to allot equity securities up to a nominal amount of 121,512.22, representing one third of the Companys share capital as at 28 February 2019 the latest practicable date, of which 18,226.83, representing 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date, could be allotted on a non-pre-emptive basis, subject to certain restrictions, and make market purchases of up to 36,453,666 of our own ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date, will be put to shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
A further explanation of the resolutions is set out in the 2019 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements or rights between shareholders that place restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys 2019 Annual General Meeting 2019 AGM will be held at the offices of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, 110 Fetter Lane, London, EC4A 1AY at 11.00 a. m. on 2 May 2019.
The Notice of Meeting of the 2019 AGM 2019 AGM Notice will be available on our website: http: investors.
An explanation of the resolutions to be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM, and the recommendation of the Directors in relation to them, is set out in the 2019 AGM Notice.
The Directors' Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2019.
By Order of the Board Kathy Cong Company Secretary 12 March 2019 121 Credit Services wins Lending Awards 2018 Best Technology Partner Loan management payments 122 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 03 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 124 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 190 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 192 123
