BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE STRUCTURE BOARD Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews the integrity, adequacy Reviews the effectiveness Sets, reviews and recommends Evaluates and makes and effectiveness of Equinitis of Equinitis risk management Equinitis overall remuneration recommendations regarding system of internal control and risk and processes to ensure that key policy and strategy and monitors Board and Committee composition, management and the integrity risks are adequately mitigated.
succession planning and Directors of Equinitis financial reporting, potential conflicts of interest.
whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption obligations.
A R Rm N Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Conducts a weekly review of Oversees continuing obligations performance, allocates resources in respect of the disclosure and and directs activity to deliver the control of inside information directly business plan.
E D Sales and Bid Group Investment and Executive Risk and Operating Committee Change Committee Compliance Committee Committee Conducts a weekly review of all Conducts a monthly review of all Assures performance of the business Challenges and reviews P&L sales submissions, tenders capital expenditure and acquisitions.
in accordance with policies, relevant performance, business planning and renewals.
and resourcing, budgeting, central costs and overhead.
GC RC O Sb KEY BOARD COMMITTEES A D N Rm R Audit Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES E RC Sb O GC Executive Executive Risk Sales and Bid Operating Group Investment Committee and Compliance Committee Committee and Change Committee Committee 66 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has four main Committees comprising solely nonThe Executive Committee is the most senior executive executive Directors: Audit: Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
Its members are listed on The Committees reports that follow on pages 72 to 117 set out pages 60 to 61. their members, attendance, responsibilities and activities.
These The Executive Committee meets weekly to review performance Committees take the lead with the following: and the allocation of resources and directs activity to deliver the business plan.
the detailed oversight of the Companys internal and external audit work: The Executive Committee is supported by four management sub-committees: oversight of the Companys risk identification and management: the Sales and Bid Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, meets weekly and is responsible for reviewing sales establishing the remuneration policy and overseeing submissions, tenders and contract renewals.
This Committee implementation for the Group as a whole, specifically for the sets the commercial and pricing strategy for the Group, executive Directors and leadership team: and including brand, marketing and new product launches: determining appropriate succession and contingency plans the Operating Committee chaired by the Chief Executive, for the Directors and senior managers and undertaking meets monthly and is responsible for reviewing performance appropriate searches for new Directors as required.
against P&L budgets, forecasting and monitoring central costs and running the budget process: Disclosure Committee In addition to the four main Board Committees, the Board has the Group Investment and Change Committee is chaired delegated responsibilities to the Disclosure Committee to oversee by the Chief Financial Officer, and meets monthly.
It reviews the Companys compliance with its obligations as laid down by capital expenditure requests, key priority projects and the FCA's Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency corporate development activity: and Rules and the Market Abuse Regulation in respect of the the Executive Risk and Compliance Committee is chaired disclosure and control of inside information directly concerning by the Chief Financial Officer and meets at least quarterly, the Company.
The Committee meets as and when it is deemed to ensure performance of the business is in accordance with necessary and its members consist of the Chairman, Chief policies, legislation and agreed risk appetite.
Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
Executive Committees In addition to the oversight provided by the Board and Committees noted previously, the executive Directors are supported by a number of executive management committees, which help them to discharge their duties.
These include monthly reviews with the senior and divisional management teams, covering areas such as business performance and development, financial management, risk management, HR, IT and operational performance.
The Chief Executive leads the Groups operational management and is supported by the executive management team.
The executive management team gives strategic focus and is responsible for managing the operational and financial performance of the Group, by coordinating the work of the specialist business areas.
This enables the efficient and effective day-to-day operation of the Groups businesses.
The Board is kept up to date with developments in the business, including the work of the leadership teams, through the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers regular reports, which are discussed in detail at each Board meeting.
67 BOARD SKILLS FINANCE SKILLS It is a core feature of good corporate governance that the Board and its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills Equity markets and experience, independence and knowledge, to enable the Debt financing effective discharge of their duties and responsibilities, whether individually or collectively.
Part of the role of the Chairman and Audit 2015 the Nomination Committee is to keep the balance of skills and expertise on the Board and its Committees under review Financial accounting 2014 and make recommendations to the Board where changes are Management appropriate to maintain that balance.
accounting As part of the Board evaluation that was undertaken during the year details of which are provided on page 69, the skills of OTHER SKILLS the Directors, as a whole, were collated to illustrate the Boards in-depth knowledge and experience of the sectors in which the Organisational Company operates.
Development The individual experience and background of each Director is set HR & Reward out in their biographies on pages 58 to 59.
The Board considers Restructuring & 2015 that the range of skills, experience and background of each of divestment the Directors is sufficiently relevant and complementary to allow 2014 Risk Management appropriate oversight, challenge and review of the Companys M&A progress in achieving its corporate goals.
The following charts illustrate the broad spectrum and depth of experience that the nine members of the Board have and how, collectively, they cover the sectors and businesses in which the KEY Group operates.
BOARD SKILLS TECHNICAL SKILLS NOT Not so Somewhat Very Extremely APPLICABLE familiar familiar familiar familiar Online marketing DIVERSITY Cyber security The Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, values 2015 Software development diversity in its broadest sense and when considering new nonexecutive Director appointments will, in addition to considering 2014 IT Infrastructure gender, age, disability, ethnicity, geography or experience, look to maintain within the boardroom the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company and the industry as a whole.
SECTOR EXPERIENCE The Board notes the aims of the Hampton-Alexander Review and Life assurance the aspiration to achieve at least 33% representation of women on FTSE 350 boards by 2020.
The Board is currently comprised of nine Pensions Directors, three of whom are women.
Accordingly, the Company itself has reached the 33% representation level.
The Board 2015 Insurance continues to strengthen the pipeline of senior female executives Retail financial 2014 within the business, and ensure that there are no barriers to women services succeeding at the highest levels within the Group.
Further details Commercial banking on the Companys gender diversity statistics as at 31 December 2018 are set out on page 41 and details of the Groups diversity and inclusion policy can be found on page 40.
SALES SKILLS Alliances Joint ventures Retail 2015 Brand & marketing 2014 Business development 68 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS 2017 Key Recommendations how did we address them?
As reported in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, it was to help manage meetings.
An adverse impact of lengthening the noted that more time should be allowed for Board discussion Board meetings is that on occasion Committee meetings have by extending the average length of meetings and simplifying felt compressed, an item which has been picked up through the and summarising key information packs.
This was addressed 2018 Board and Committee Evaluation process.
As indicated and the summaries have been found to be very helpful to in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, we used an external the Directors.
More time has also been spent on considering consultant to lead the 2018 Board and Committee Evaluation medium-term issues and a schedule of future topics was agreed process, which we discuss in the following section.
2018 Board and Committee Evaluations Evaluation Questions Analysis Interviews Discussion Action Points & Report A formal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the Interviews performance of each Director was undertaken during 2018.
The initial analysis was provided to the Chairman who then Lintstock, an independent third-party provider of board met with each Director and the Company Secretary to discuss evaluation services, was engaged to assist with the evaluation the analysis and gather further information and feedback.
The of the Board and its Committees.
Lintstock does not undertake Chairman also discussed each Directors individual performance.
any other services for the Company.
The evaluation followed the The Chairmans review was undertaken by the Senior process summarised above and expanded on below: Independent Director.
Questions Evaluation and Report For the Board evaluation, Lintstock circulated a questionnaire All of the responses, from both the questionnaires and to each Director and the Company Secretary which listed 33 interviews, were further analysed and reports for the Board questions covering the following main topics: and each of its four Committees were produced by Lintstock.
The skills of the Board were also mapped and charts produced board composition: showing the Boards familiarity with them.
stakeholder oversight: Discussion board dynamics: The reports were discussed by the Board and each of its Committees.
Overall, the Board and its Committees were management of meetings: found to be operating effectively and were well managed.
The board support: relationships between individual Directors and between the Board and management were rated highly.
The overall value of focus of meetings: the Boards visit to the US was rated very highly and was a great a case study on the Boards meeting in the US: opportunity to interact with US management and visit the US operational sites.
A consistent theme from all of the Committee strategic oversight: evaluations was that more time could be allocated to the risk management and internal control: meetings.
succession planning and human resource management: and Key Recommendations from the 2018 Evaluation: priorities for change.
where possible, certain Committee meetings should be held the day before or separate to the Board meeting to ensure For the Committee evaluations, Lintstock circulated a smaller that sufficient time is provided to all of the meetings: questionnaire of ten questions covering the following main topics: attention should be paid to managing the integration of the new non-executive Directors and the new composition of the time management and composition: Committees: committee processes and support: the Board should monitor closely the enhancement of the the work of the Committee: and audit and risk functions for EQ US: priorities for change.
further steps should be taken to allow the Directors to meet with a greater number of talented employees below the senior Lintstock also evaluated the Chairmans performance, asking: management level: how constructive the Chairmans relationships were with each member of the Board: how well meetings were managed: and the Company should ensure that the proposed new how well the inputs of the various members were handled during Remuneration Policy is effectively communicated to, and meetings.
supported by, shareholders: Analysis The responses received from each Director and the Company Secretary were analysed by the team at Lintstock and grouped by common themes.
69 ensure that the proposed new Remuneration Policy is applied, The Group Chief Audit Executive, Group Internal Audit, matching reward to both performance and behaviour: reports regularly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and attends each Audit Committee meeting to present the internal a strategic view of the risk profile over the next four to five control findings from the internal audits performed.
The Audit years should be developed: Committee reviews and discusses the effectiveness of internal reviewed changes in corporate governance to ensure that the audits on an annual basis with the Group Chief Audit Executive.
Board and its Committees are compliant: and This is done by the review of the internal audit plan of work for the year and monitoring progress against the plan and actions the Board should continue its support and involvement in identified by internal audit.
The Group Chief Audit Executive the programme regarding the culture and behaviours of the meets with the Audit Committee at least twice a year, without Group.
executive Directors present, and is a regular attendee at the Risk Committee meetings.
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering the Companys REGULATED ACTIVITIES agreed strategy and, with the Chief Financial Officer, prepares A number of the Groups businesses include regulated activities, the annual budget, which is subject to formal scrutiny and with several of the Companys subsidiaries being regulated.
Two approval by the Board.
Progress in delivering this annual budget of these are major businesses within the Group.
is reported on at each Board meeting.
The first such business is Equiniti Financial Services Limited Monthly business forecasts are prepared by the operating EFSL, which has a Board consisting of two independent nondivisions to identify variances against the annual budget at the executive Directors, two non-executive Directors and three earliest opportunity, reflecting changes in expectations and executive Directors.
The Board is supportive of the EFSL Board, market conditions.
Negative variances to budget are subject to to ensure that appropriate governance is followed in respect rigorous challenge at Operating Committee meetings prior to of all FCA regulated activities.
The Board maintains oversight progress updates being reported to the Board.
of these regulated activities by receiving regular reports, and specifically through the ICAAP process and risk appetite and There are clear policies outlining delegated authority limits for framework within EFSL, from the Chief Executive and the Chief all types of business transactions and associated authorised Risk Officer.
Copies of the EFSL board and committee minutes signatories.
The authority limits and processes are verified by are made available to the Board.
reviews undertaken by compliance and Group internal audit.
Additional detail on the work of the compliance and internal The second such business is Equiniti Trust Company in the US.
audit functions is set out on page 77.
This is governed by its own independent board.
The Board and the US board work closely together and held a very successful All employees are required to undergo an objective-based joint board meeting during the year.
The Board maintains personal appraisal process, with individual objectives derived oversight of the US business by receiving regular reports and from the corporate strategy and the objectives of their line presentations from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial managers and set within the context of the Companys corporate Officer, who are non-executive Directors of Equiniti Trust goals and annual budget.
Company, and also directly from the US senior management THE BOARDS REVIEW OF THE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL team.
CONTROL STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Board has responsibility for the Companys overall approach The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report to risk management and internal controls and considers their and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law effectiveness fundamental to the achievement of the Companys and regulation.
During 2018, the Board, through its Audit and Risk Committees, built upon its 2017 review of the process Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors by the Group.
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted The Group internal audit function advises the executive by the European Union and Company financial statements in management team on the extent to which systems of internal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards control are adequate and effective for managing business risk, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law safeguarding the Companys resources, and ensuring compliance the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless with Group policies and legal and regulatory requirements, as they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of well as advising on ways in which areas of risk can be addressed.
affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the It provides objective assurance on risk and controls to senior Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Group statements, the Directors are required to: internal audits work is focused on the Groups principal risks.
The mandate and programme of work of the Group internal select suitable accounting policies and then apply them audit team is considered and approved by the Audit Committee.
consistently: Based on the approved internal audit plan, a number of internal state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European audits took place across the Groups divisions to facilitate Union have been followed for the Group financial statements improvement of the Groups internal controls.
Findings were and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been reported to the relevant operational management and the followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any Audit Committee.
The Group internal audit follows up on the material departures disclosed and explained in the financial implementation of recommendations and reports on progress to statements: senior management and to the Audit Committee.
70 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 make judgements and accounting estimates that are GOING CONCERN reasonable and prudent: and The Companys business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis set out in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 29.
The financial unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and Company will continue in business.
A copy of the financial borrowing facilities, as well as the Companys objectives, policies statements is available on Equiniti's website: http: investors.
and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 30 equiniti.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps and liquidity risk are described in notes 5 and 6.10 6.13 to the for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting During the year, the Directors assessed the viability of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Company over a three-year period, taking into account the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Groups current financial position and the principal risks, at any time the financial position of the Group and Company particularly those that could threaten the business model and and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the the ability of the Group to renew its receivable finance.
The Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act Directors consider that the Companys business activities and 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of financial resources ensure that it is well placed to manage its the IAS Regulation.
The Group viability statement can be found on page 52.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Directors are satisfied that: of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Companys and the Group's activities are sustainable statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
for the foreseeable future, and that the business is a going concern: and Directors' Confirmations it is appropriate to continue to adopt a going concern basis in The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, the preparation of the financial statements.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Philip Yea Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Chairman pages 58 to 59 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 12 March 2019 the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS As required by section 418 of the Act, each Director has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its audit report of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
They have also confirmed that they have taken all the steps they ought to as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
