Executive Committee KEY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES E RC Sb O GC Executive Executive Risk Sales and Bid Operating Group Investment Committee and Compliance Committee Committee and Change Committee Committee GUY WAKELEY JOHN STIER CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER See page 58 for details See page 58 for details THERA PRINS REBECCA GRATTAN ADAM GREEN CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND CHIEF PEOPLE AND CHIEF RISK OFFICER CEO, EQ INVEST INVESTMENT TRANSFORMATION OFFICER SOLUTIONS DIVISION Joined the Group in March 2015 Joined the Group in November 2016 Joined the Group in August 2018 Adam is responsible for managing the Thera is responsible for ensuring that the Rebecca is responsible for Human Groups global risk profile.
He has a wide Group has the resources and functions Resources, Transformation and Change range of experience in financial services, in place to deliver the Boards strategy.
She has had a lengthy risk management, regulation and business In addition, she manages the division career in consultancy and has worked change.
Adam was previously interim that operates the various platforms that with some of the largest financial services Head of UK Compliance for Bupa and investors can use to access the market and public sector organisations, leading prior to that managed a core transition and buy, sell and hold investments in a significant transformation programmes workstream at the Financial Services cost effective way.
Prior to joining the and specialising in the operating model Authority as it established the Financial Group, Thera spent 20 years in retail and organisational design.
Conduct Authority and Prudential financial services working for Visa Europe, Regulatory Authority.
Barclays and Lloyds Group, where she specialised in customer services, new product development solutions and global expansion initiatives.
E RC Sb GC GC RC E E Sb RC O O O 60 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 MARK CHURLEY PAUL MATTHEWS TODD MAY CHIEF GROWTH OFFICER CEO, EQ BOARDROOM CEO, EQ US INVESTMENT INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS DIVISION DIVISION Joined the Group in August 2017 Joined the Group in February 2011 Joined the Group in February 2018 Mark is responsible for growth across Paul is responsible for working with Todd is responsible for leading the the Groups core markets, both in the the UKs leading businesses to deliver Group's US transfer agent business.
UK and overseas, through new business successful transactions including IPOs He joined Wells Fargo Shareowner origination and from established and corporate actions for a client base Services, now EQ US, in 2007.
Mark has over covering circa 50% of the FTSE 100 and leadership, the business implemented 20 years experience in business circa 40% of the FTSE 250.
With over key regulatory changes, executed development with NCR Corporation, 30 years of experience, his background significant enhancements to issuer Talaris, fide La Rue and Lucent.
and knowledge of the securities industry and shareowner websites in meeting brings an important skill set to the customer needs, and increased product Groups senior team, helping shape the offerings while consistently being known Groups offering to listed companies as a leading service provider.
Todd has both in the UK and globally.
over 25 years experience in financial services and corporate development.
Sb E O O E O E DUNCAN WATSON KEVIN OCONNOR CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER CEO, EQ PAYMASTER PENSIONS SOLUTIONS DIVISION Joined the Group in January 2018 Joined the Group in March 2015 Kevin is responsible for leading the Duncan is responsible for the Groups digital and technology agenda.
EQ Paymaster business lines and He has extensive global experience for ensuring that its clients and their in building and leading teams that members, policyholders and employees deliver and support high performance receive outcomes that are of the highest and highly secure systems for both the quality.
B2B and B2C markets, in both highly Duncan joined the Group from Aon regulated and unregulated markets, Hewitt where he was UK Chief Operating across a range of industries including Officer.
He is a Pensions Actuary who investment banking, gaming and travel.
has worked in Financial Services for 27 years and has significant experience in both advising clients and the delivery of change and operational excellence.
E E RC Sb GC O O 61 The Boards Terms of Reference state that at least half of the BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Board should be made up of non-executive Directors.
This The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, the Chief requirement was complied with throughout the year.
The Board Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and six independent nonconsiders that all of the non-executive Directors are independent executive Directors.
The members of the Board who served and that the Chairman was independent upon appointment.
during the year and as at the date of this report are shown in the table below, together with their attendance at the 13 Board The Terms of Reference also state that one of the non-executive meetings held during the year or those held during their tenure: Directors should also be appointed as the Senior Independent Director SID.
This role was undertaken by Vicky Jarman until she stood down from the Board in May 2018 and Darren Pope was Name Attended appointed SID in her place.
Philip Yea Chairman 13 13 The Terms of Reference also state that the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be exercised independently of Guy Wakeley Chief Executive 13 13 each other and that the Chairman should not exercise the role John Stier Chief Financial Officer 13 13 of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible 4 Darren Pope Senior Independent Director 12 13 for managing and leading the business.
These roles were carried out independently of each other throughout the year.
1 Alison Burns 11 11 Each Director has access to the advice and services of the 2 Mark Brooker 2 2 Company Secretary and can arrange for independent, professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge Sally-Ann Hibberd 13 13 it is necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
There is an agreed procedure enabling them to do so, 3,4 Vicky Jarman 3 4 which is managed by the Company Secretary.
No such advice 5 was sought during the year.
Dr Tim Miller 11 13 2,4 ROLE OF THE BOARD Cheryl Millington 1 2 The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the business and delegates the day-to-day management to 1 Alison Burns was appointed to the Board effective from 1 April 2018. the executive management team.
However, there is a schedule 2 Mark Brooker and Cheryl Millington were appointed to the Board effective of matters reserved for the Boards decision, together with from 1 November 2018. a delegated authority framework, to ensure that unusual or 3 Vicky Jarman stood down from the Board effective from 3 May 2018. material transactions are brought to the Board for approval.
4 Vicky Jarman and Cheryl Millington were each unable to attend one meeting The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes, due to illness.
Darren Pope was unable to attend one meeting that was additionally scheduled during the year due to a prior commitment.
amongst other things: 5 Dr Tim Miller was unable to attend one meeting due to illness and one approval of strategic plans: meeting that was additionally scheduled during the year due to a prior commitment.
approval of annual budgets: approval of acquisitions and disposals: Details of the Directors, including the skills and experience they overseeing the Groups operations to ensure competent and bring to the Board can be found on pages 58 to 59. prudent management, sound planning and an adequate GOVERNANCE system of internal control: During the year, the Company complied in full with the 2016 approval of half-year and full-year results announcements: UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board is approval of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: and aware of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and the enhanced reporting for s172 of the Companies Act 2006 the appointment or resignation of directors and the company which came into effect on 1 January 2019.
complies with the majority of the new Code and is taking actions The delegated authority schedule sets out the financial on other provisions.
We have already implemented policies and parameters of authority, covering the delegation of all areas procedures during the year to enhance our engagement with of the Groups activities below Board level to the executive all stakeholders.
We have also developed a Code Compliance Directors, divisional CEOs, or business unit managers.
Certain dashboard that tracks the progress of actions already authorities, such as approval of capital expenditure, have undertaken, and those to be undertaken during 2019, to ensure different delegated authority limits depending on whether the full compliance with the new Code.
We will report further on our particular expenditure was included in the annual budget or compliance with the new Code in our 2019 Annual Report and is an additional item of expenditure where a higher degree of Accounts.
Copies of both Codes can be found on the Financial oversight and approval may be appropriate.
Reporting Councils website at www.
62 SECTION 02 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2018 oup plc Annual Report 2018 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has an established framework for the identification, approval and recording of actual or potential conflicts of interest of its Directors and subsidiary company Directors.
All conflicts of interest must be declared to the Board and are recorded in Equinitis register of Directors interests.
The Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Companys Articles of Association contain detailed provisions for the proper management of conflicts of interest.
The circumstances in which the Board can approve the ongoing participation by a conflicted Director in any discussions or decisions of the Board, where the Director is or may have a conflict, are clearly defined.
As part of the framework referred to above, towards the end of the year, each Director is provided with a copy of the information held about them personal information, declared conflicts, shareholding in the Company, who their connected persons are requesting that they confirm that the details held are still valid and up to date.
This annual attestation process ensures that the Director is aware of the details held on them and that the details are correct.
The Board maintains oversight of each Directors external interests, to ensure that they continue to be able to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
Where there are external commitments, the Board makes sure it is satisfied that these do not have any adverse effect on the Company or the ability of any particular Director to discharge their duties fully.
More information about members of the Board and the Executive Committee is available on pages 58 to 61.
63 63 BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2018 The Board met 13 times during the year and undertook the following activities during those meetings: received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: received a Board presentation on the WFSS acquisition: February received a Board presentation on the Groups MiFID II readiness: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: and reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports.
received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: received and discussed the gender pay gap report: March reviewed and approved the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and ancillary documents: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports: approved the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference: and approved the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: and April reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports.
offsite Board meeting to discuss the Groups strategy.
May Board meeting held offsite in Exeter: received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: received a Board presentation on EQ Digital: June reviewed an update on the integration of EQ US: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports: received product demonstration and met with EQ Data management and staff: and discussed the Groups Culture and Values.
64 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: reviewed and approved the 2018 half-year results: recieved an update on the integration of EQ US: July reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports: approved the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference: and received and discussed the IT Transformation Programme update.
received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: approved the acquisition of the Cabinet Offices 24% stake in MyCSP: received an update on the integration of EQ US: September reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports: and discussed the Culture Transformation Plan.
joint offsite Board meeting with the board of Equiniti Trust Company in Minneapolis: met with EQ US management and colleagues: and October participated in a tour of the US customer experience centre, Minneapolis.
Board meeting held offsite in Leeds: received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: received a Board presentation on EQ Paymaster: November reviewed an update on the integration of EQ US: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports: received a product demonstration from the Credit Services and Data Solutions teams: and received a Board presentation on Regulated BPO.
received and discussed business updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: reviewed and approved the 2019 Budget: received a Board presentation on IT transformation and the technology platform roadmap: December received a Board presentation on Customer Experience and Permission: received an update on the integration of EQ US: reviewed the Compliance & Governance report: and reviewed the Committee and Subsidiary company update reports.
