Our markets Equiniti has large addressable markets INCREASING REGULATION CONTINUING DIGITISATION in the UK and US.
In the short term, There is ongoing pressure to protect Consumers expect to receive high-quality activity in our markets is driven by consumers interests through greater services and to be able to manage their macro-economic conditions, including regulation, particularly in the pensions, affairs online.
Shorter product lifecycles confidence levels among businesses banking and financial services, and are also requiring organisations to build and institutional investors, and the level healthcare industries.
There is also evercustomer journeys more quickly.
These factors impact increasing focus on issues such as money pressures require organisations to invest demand for investment-linked products laundering, which is a global problem.
extensively in websites, portals and and the number of flotations, mergers, mobile apps, which can be difficult to New regulations are therefore a feature acquisitions, share issues and buybacks.
At the same time, they are of our clients markets.
In the UK, for We also increase our addressable market often struggling with legacy technology, example, more than 80 new regulations over time, by adding capabilities to the particularly in the banking sector, making have been introduced in financial services Group, expanding our client base via IPO it more difficult to respond.
More regulation wins, and cross-selling into that expanded results in both public and private sector The growth of digitisation is also creating client base.
This will be particularly organisations facing rising compliance vast quantities of proprietary and thirdimportant in the US, as we transfer costs and the need to upgrade technology party data for our clients.
They often capabilities developed in the UK to serve to cope.
Many may also be contending need specialist help to analyse this data EQ USs clients.
with past regulatory issues at the same and extract customer insights, so they The longer-term growth of our markets is time.
Organisations who fail to meet can improve their customer offer.
This is the result of powerful structural trends: their regulatory obligations face more particularly critical for clients with large investigations, increasing demand for customer bases.
INCREASING COST-CONSCIOUSNESS continued digitisation: and While Equiniti is also affected by Companies are under real pressure to increasing cost consciousness.
compliance costs this trend is positive cut costs, to enable them to compete for us, creating new opportunities to These challenge our clients, who effectively and to grow profits.
face greater complexity and pressure on public finances also forces rising costs, encouraging them governments and their agencies to turn to us for support.
This requires companies and the public sector to focus on their core operations and be more efficient.
Technology-led solutions help them to transform their operations and deliver efficiencies.
12 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS THE IMPLICATIONS FOR EQUINITI The trends outlined on page 12 have several implications for us.
Our strategy is designed to respond to these dynamics.
IMPLICATIONS FOR EQUINITI OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE The changing environment means existing clients need more of our We grow sales to existing clients by cross-selling and up-selling, so they services, so they can manage change effectively.
take a greater number of our solutions over time.
Prospective clients have an ever-increasing range of needs, opening up We win new B2B clients requiring core services such as share new ways of winning their business.
registration services and through new routes such as software sales.
As the world becomes more complex, both new and existing clients We stay ahead by understanding our clients evolving needs and either require us to offer new capabilities.
developing or acquiring new capabilities to meet them.
Complexity tends to increase costs, so we must focus rigorously on our We continue to grow our offshore presence, find other opportunities own efficiency.
to increase efficiency, and benefit from the operational leverage of our platforms.
Our technology is a key enabler of change for our clients.
We need to We use the attractive cash flow characteristics of our business to ensure it remains best in class.
invest in our technology platforms, while continuing to strengthen our balance sheet.
For more information on our strategy, see pages 14 to 15.
OUR COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT We have both market-leading and challenger positions across In markets where we have challenger positions, we are our portfolio of services.
Most of our UK markets are fragmented differentiated by our proven ability to process data and payments and we typically face different competitors in each.
Many clients are risk averse and given the critical nature of the services we supply, operational In Investment Solutions, we have number one positions in share excellence is critical for winning and retaining their business.
registration and employee share plans.
The division also has challenger positions in custody nominee and flexible benefits In the US shareholder services market, we rank second by the services.
number of shareholders served, with c22% market share.
By number of issuers served we rank third, with 10% market share.
Pension Solutions is number one in public sector administration and number two in third-party administration, serving approximately seven million pension scheme members.
In Intelligent Solutions, we have a number one position in remediation services and strong positions in regulatory services, loan technology, know-your-customer KYC customer on-boarding, risk assessment, data analytics and consumer credit.
UK US #1 #2 #4 #2 #3 SHARE THIRD-PARTY PENSION EXECUTION-ONLY BY SHAREHOLDERS BY ISSUERS REGISTRATION ADMINISTRATION RETAIL SHARE DEALING SERVED SERVED EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS PUBLIC SECTOR PENSION ADMINISTRATION REMEDIATION SERVICES 13
