Chief Executive's statement Guy Wakeley A CONSISTENT VALUE-CREATING STRATEGY Since our IPO in 2015, we have followed a consistent strategy which continues to deliver results.
Organic growth is the starting point of that strategy and 2018 was the strongest period of organic growth we have reported as a listed company.
The majority of the services we provide While our registration and share plan services in the US and plan to launch asset are non-discretionary and we continue business is a key source of new clients remediation services and employee share to increase the range of issues we can for us, we were successful in gaining plans in 2019, to build on the momentum address for our clients.
Combined with names across all divisions.
Intelligent we have seen in H2 2018. very high service quality, this enables us Solutions had a particularly strong year, The separation of the business from Wells to build long-term and mutually beneficial with new wins including customer onFargo and its integration into Equiniti is relationships with our clients senior boarding services to Ulster Bank and data proceeding well.
We have now established decision makers, encouraging them to analytics to Neilson.
Pension Solutions our data centres and deployed our take more of our services over time.
contracted during the year, in line with our applications within those data centres, expectations, as a result of a competitive We retained all of our UK registration inaugurated our second site in Milwaukee market, but gained new clients including clients this year, with key renewals and introduced new finance, HR and the Combined Nuclear Pension Plan, including BAE Systems, GSK, IHG, Just billing systems.
The final phase of our Sussex Police and the UK Atomic Energy Eat and QinetiQ.
Our average relationship work is the business acceptance testing Authority.
with FTSE 100 registration clients is now of core transactional systems which is well 29 years and our key accounts typically underway, and we are now progressing ADDING TO OUR CAPABILITIES take more than ten services from us, with an extended period of parallel running, Our launch into the US is proving some taking more than 20.
The result in anticipated to conclude by June 2019. successful, with the EQ US acquisition 2018 was our best ever organic revenue This additional period of prudent dual giving us a capability in the worlds largest growth of 7.3%.
running requires an additional investment market for our services.
While revenue in transitional resource, increasing our FURTHER GROWTH IN OUR declined in the first half as a result of some estimated total cost to complete to CLIENT BASE attrition in the client base and slower no more than 45.0m.
The synergies corporate action activity, the business Another key feature of the year was committed in the acquisition case of $10m returned to growth in the second half the continued strengthening of our UK in the second year of ownership 2020 are and achieved a substantial increase in its franchise, showing both its resilience on track and will deliver in their entirety.
EQ US continues to deliver and its capacity for further growth.
We In the UK, we acquired Boudicca Proxy excellent service, helping it to win new have approximately 50% of the UK FTSE Limited in April 2018.
Boudicca is the clients in the year, including National Bank 100 share registration market and have fastest-growing proxy solicitation company Holdings, Mastercard and Inmarsat.
We won 21 UK main-market IPO mandates, in the market and has increased our range see real opportunity in the US market, as including the largest new issues such of boardroom services.
We have already we gain market share and introduce new as Aston Martin and Avast.
We also cross-sold its capabilities to 21 of our services.
Intelligent Solutions rich set of won additional registration mandates clients.
We also added to our technology regulatory technologies will be important from our competitors, including for and services offering for insurance to our growth in the US, as we expand EQ Bodycote, Deltex, Hiscox, Wm Morrisons companies and the broader financial USs relatively narrow current product set.
and National Grid, and new share plan services market, through the acquisition of We have launched Riskfactor, private share mandates such as Astra Zeneca and Aquila Group Holdings in October 2018. registration work and proxy solicitation Santander.
20 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT Our launch into the US is We have approximately We acquired Boudicca proving successful, with the 50% of the UK FTSE 100 Proxy Limited in April 2018 share registration market and have won around EQ US Boudicca acquisition giving us a is the fastest-growing proxy 70% capability in the worlds solicitation company in the of IPO mandates, including largest market for market and has increased our the largest new issues such our services.
as Aston Martin and Avast.
We continue to develop our new Our medium term guidance remains INVESTING FOR GROWTH capabilities internally, such as our estate unchanged and excludes the impact The quality of our earnings is reflected management and bereavement services of IRFS 16 to be consistent with current in our ability to turn them into cash.
This is gaining traction, with an reported results: organic revenue growth We continue to generate high levels of ongoing pilot with six major UK banks.
of 3 7% per annum supplemented by operating cash flow conversion, which Other notable projects include blockchain capability-enhancing acquisitions, gradual stood at 102% for the year against our registration and proxy solicitation, which margin improvement of c25 bps per target of c95%, and reflects strong are now in test.
annum, a progressive dividend policy working capital management.
This allows with distribution based on a 30% payout ENHANCING THE QUALITY us to fund our ongoing investment in ratio of underlying profit attributable to development capital expenditure, both in OF OUR EARNINGS ordinary shareholders, cash tax rate of our core operating platforms and in new Equiniti aims to deliver high-quality, c13% for 2019 and c17% for 2020 onwards, financial technology products.
sustainable earnings growth, year after average cash conversion of c95%, capital year.
There were no non-operating OUTLOOK expenditure of 6 7% of revenue post charges in 2018, with the exception of integration of the US business and a net Whilst we expect the uncertainty in the integration and transaction costs of the debt underlying EBITDA ratio of 2.0 2.5x.
operating environment to continue, the 21 US business.
outlook for Equiniti remains strong.
We There are ongoing opportunities to expect further organic growth in the UK, enhance our margins, both through selling as we build on our relationships with our Guy Wakeley more technology, which is inherently exceptional client base.
The US offers a Chief Executive more profitable, and through leveraging platform for accelerated growth based our offshore capabilities in India.
We on the potential market opportunity, the 12 March 2019 now have c900 IT and operations staff in potential to take market share and the Chennai and we have recently opened opportunity to cross-sell digitised services a technology centre in Bangalore with into our blue-chip client base.
There is a long appropriate, we will supplement our way to go with the offshoring process organic growth with capability-enhancing and our intention is to keep growing our acquisitions.
offshore headcount, while keeping our UK Our business model gives us excellent headcount steady.
Combined with the highly scalable platform nature of our We expect further organic operations, progressive deleveraging and growth in the UK, as we build further operational improvements, this will on our relationships with an allow us to continue to grow underlying exceptional client base profits and earnings ahead of revenue.
