KEY BOARD COMMITTEES Board of Directors A D N R Rm Audit Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee PHILIP YEA GUY WAKELEY JOHN STIER DARREN POPE ALISON BURNS CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL SENIOR INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT OFFICER DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: January 2014 Appointed: June 2015 Appointed: December 2016 Appointed: April 2018 Independent upon Prior to joining the A qualified accountant, Darren is a qualified Alison has held executive Appointment Company, Guy was chief prior to joining the accountant with over 30 and non-executive roles Philip was chief executive executive of Morrison Company John was the years of experience in the within Aviva plc, including of 3i Group plc from plc for five years and Chief Financial Officer of financial services industry, the position of CEO of 2004 to 2009.
A qualified before that held divisional Northgate Information the majority of which Aviva Ireland.
She has accountant, he is also a leadership positions Solutions Ltd for over ten has been spent in retail extensive financial services former finance director of with Amey, The Berkeley years.
Prior to that, he financial services.
Most experience, gained in Diageo plc and, as finance Group, General Electric was the Chief Financial recently Darren served senior roles with Santander, director of Guinness PLC, and Rolls-Royce.
Guy has Officer of Subterra Ltd, as CFO of TSB Bank plc, Lloyds TSB and AXA UK.
was closely involved in the an MA in Engineering a subsidiary of Thames having led the initial stages Skills and Experience creation of Diageo through Science from the University Water Plc, which delivered of its separation from Beneficial to the Company: Guinness's merger with of Cambridge and a PhD engineering services to Lloyds Banking Group.
Alison has in-depth GrandMet in 1997. in applications of artificial businesses across Europe.
He was a non-executive knowledge of the intelligence to engineering director of Virgin Money Skills and Experience Skills and Experience insurance and financial design.
Holdings UK plc prior to Beneficial to the Company: Beneficial to the Company: services sectors two key its merger with CYBG plc.
Philip is an experienced Skills and Experience Johns considerable markets for the Group.
Chairman with in-depth Beneficial to the Company: finance experience, and Skills and Experience Alisons experience has knowledge of both the Guy is an experienced his extensive executive Beneficial to the Company: provided her with an quoted and private chief executive, with experience, has been Darrens considerable insight into the customers equity sectors.
With his extensive IT experience.
invaluable in his role as accounting experience and viewpoint which is a skill considerable executive This has enabled him to Chief Financial Officer, in his in-depth knowledge of required by the Board.
experience, he brings forge a strong, focused, managing the Companys the retail financial services Other Appointments: valuable skills to the management team for the balance sheet and ensuring sector, a key business sector Non-executive Director of Board.
This team, led it has the firm financial for the Group, is beneficial Hastings plc the international business by Guy, has enabled the foundation from which it to his role as Chair of the environment will be of Company to grow from a has grown from being a Audit Committee and as a particular importance private equity-run business private-equity run business member of the Board.
to the Company as it to a main market, FTSE to a main market, FTSE 250 Other Appointments: continues on the next 250 business, with a clear, business.
Non-executive Director of stage of its growth and focused strategy for its Other Appointments: CYBG plc development as an future growth.
Other Appointments: Other Appointments: Non-executive Director of Chairman of Greene King plc HgCapital Trust plc Non-executive Director of Member of the CBIs Public Aberdeen Standard Asia Services Strategy Board Focus plc Non-executive Director of Marshall of Cambridge Holdings Ltd N E O Sb RC GC A CHAIR CHAIR CHAIR CHAIR D D RC GC D E O Sb R N A Rm 58 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES E RC Sb GC O Executive Executive Risk Sales and Bid Operating Group Investment Committee and Compliance Committee Committee and Change Committee Committee CHERYL MILLINGTON KATHY CONG MARK BROOKER SALLY-ANN HIBBERD DR TIM MILLER INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Appointed: November 2018 Appointed: July 2016 Appointed: November 2018 Appointed: August 2016 Appointed: February 2015 Marks executive career Sally-Ann previously served During his 14 years at Cheryls experience has Prior to joining the has involved senior roles as COO of the international Standard Chartered Bank, been gained through her Company, Kathy worked at in technology-centric division and latterly as Tim held a number of senior leadership roles FTSE 250 specialist banking businesses, including Betfair Group Operations and director level positions with in technology across a group, Investec plc, for where he was COO and Technology Director of global responsibility for areas variety of sectors, including over 13 years.
During her Trainline where he held Willis Group, and held a including human resources, financial services and retail, time at Investec, Kathy a similar role, providing number of senior executive compliance, audit, assurance, most recently as Chief worked closely with senior strong management and roles at Lloyds TSB.
Tim Digital Officer at both management and subsidiary operations experience.
was also a non-executive Travis Perkins and Waitrose.
directors to ensure Skills and Experience He also spent 17 years Director of Page Group, the Her prior roles include appropriate governance Beneficial to the Company: in investment banking, recruitment services provider, CIO at Asda and senior systems were established Sally-Anns extensive with Rothschild, NatWest for nine years.
line management roles in and maintained, particularly experience of the financial Markets, Merrill Lynch and retail at HBOS.
Cheryl was in relation to Directors services sector, together Skills and Experience Morgan Stanley.
previously an independent duties, relevant regulatory with her experience of Beneficial to the Company: non-executive Director requirements and related Skills and Experience the insurance sector, two Tims extensive executive of National Savings and party transactions, including Beneficial to the Company: key business sectors for experience across a range Investments.
Mark brings strong the Group, has been of areas, especially in human management and beneficial when conducting resources, has assisted him Skills and Experience Kathy is an active industry operational experience her role as Chair of the in his role as Chair of the Beneficial to the Company: contributor, having held the from technology-centric Risk Committee and as a Remuneration Committee.
Cheryl brings deep position of the Secretary of businesses and his time member of the Board.
Tims experience made technological, business the Association of Women in investment banking him the ideal choice to be leadership, and customer Chartered Secretaries and Other Appointments: is very relevant to our appointed as the Boards centric experience gained the London Money Market Non-executive Director of marketplace.
designated non-executive across a variety of sectors, Association.
IG Group Holdings plc Director to engage with the including financial services Other Appointments: Other appointments: Groups wider workforce.
and retail, which is very Non-executive Board Non-executive Director of Director of Equiniti Share relevant to our marketplace.
member of Loughborough AA plc Other Appointments: Plan Trustees Limited University Non-executive Director of Other appointments: Company Secretary to the Non-executive Director of Equiniti Financial Services Advisory board member of Non-executive Director of Equiniti Group UK subsidiary William Hill plc Limited the Groups most OEE Consulting Atom Bank plc companies significant FCA regulated entity in the UK Non-executive Director of Clarkson plc and chair of its remuneration committee Non-executive Director of Otis Gold Corporation, a Toronto Stock Exchange listed company, Chairman of the Academy of St Martin-inthe-Fields R Rm CHAIR CHAIR A A Rm N R N A R D Rm 59
