Our business model The inputs to our business model We rely on the following assets to create value for our stakeholders: PROPRIETARY SPECIALIST RELATIONSHIPS KNOWLEDGE FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY PEOPLE RESOURCES We have well-invested We employ people We build excellent We have many years We carefully manage and scalable proprietary who are experts in long-term and mutually experience of providing our balance sheet and technology platforms, their fields.
At the year beneficial relationships complex services in cash flows, giving us which give us a end, we had over 5,100 with our clients, which regulated markets.
We the financial resources competitive advantage employees, including include c70 of the FTSE also have a strong track we need to invest and form a barrier c900 at our offshore 100 and c120 of the record of identifying and in our technology to entry, given the facilities in Chennai.
Our average acquiring new platforms platforms and to substantial experience, relationship with FTSE and capabilities continue our growth.
time and money 100 share registration to cross-sell to the required to build them.
OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL The outputs from our business model FOR OUR FOR OUR FOR OUR FOR OUR FOR CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS PEOPLE SUPPLIERS SOCIETY Our clients receive Our shareholders gain Our people benefit Our suppliers are able The majority of our high-quality services from rising profits from interesting work to grow their businesses activities have a direct and technology that free and cash flows, which in a growing business, alongside ours, as we social benefit, whether them to focus on what support a progressive where they can develop work in partnership that is ensuring people matters most to them.
their careers and fulfil with them.
receive their pensions their potential.
on time or helping clients to grow and create jobs through our data analytics.
We also work in an ethical and sustainable way, and seek to create sustainable value for the long-term.
8 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our value creation model THE VALUE WE ADD We combine proprietary technology with experienced and Our people are vital.
Their expertise enables us to provide specialist people, to provide accurate, flexible and efficient sophisticated, high-margin services that are protected from services.
These services are often non-core but business-critical commoditisation.
We develop their skills and offer career paths to our clients.
Our experience of operating in regulated and interesting work.
environments helps our clients to meet their regulatory DELIVERING RETURNS obligations and protect their stakeholders interests.
High-quality delivery supports long-term relationships with our Our scale and broad client base means we can make clients senior decision makers.
Our strategic account directors investments in technology and people that our clients would then work with them to identify other areas where we can deliver not economically choose to make themselves.
This allows us value and innovation.
As a result, our key accounts typically take to provide services more efficiently than clients could in-house, more than ten services from us and some take more than 20. delivering cost efficiencies and giving them the flexibility to This cross-selling and up-selling drives our top line growth.
Our adjust the resources deployed throughout the year.
market leadership positions also make us a natural choice for Our technology platforms provide significant operational new clients.
In addition, we look to turn major clients into true leverage, which increases profits as our revenue grows.
To partners, where we are each others supplier and customer and optimise our efficiency, we continue to expand our technology jointly deliver new opportunities, making these relationships development, testing and support capability in the UK and India.
Strong operating cash flow conversion provides funds to invest in Different services generate revenues in different ways.
The growth and to further reduce our debt.
proportion generated by multi-year contracts and predictable SUSTAINING OUR ADVANTAGE project and trading activity, combined with our long-term relationships, gives us high visibility of future revenues.
For the We own the core technology, software and infrastructure Group as a whole, at the start of each year, we typically have required to run our operations.
We continually invest in our visibility of c90% of revenue for that year and c80% for the platforms to add functionality and keep pace with changing following year.
We also bring on board innovative new platforms through acquisitions along with new capabilities that are relevant to our existing clients.
OUR REVENUE VISIBILITY COMES FROM THE FOLLOWING SOURCES: c50% c30% c10% from long-term from dependable project from transactional income, contracted income income, which relates to which happens every month tasks and change work but is not contracted, such undertaken for longas foreign exchange from the standing clients on our payment of overseas pensions core platforms and interest income 9 Our technology platforms We deliver our services and solutions through a suite of proprietary platforms, which provide cutting edge technology and functionality to our clients and give us a significant competitive advantage.
Our technology underpins our strategy of expanding our service offering, while adapting to changing client and regulatory requirements.
Because they are proprietary, we can use them to provide white label services to clients.
Our infrastructure is onshore and configured to be secure and resilient.
The platforms scalability supports our business growth, with significant capacity to process increasingly large volumes of data and transactions, making payments of 93bn in 2018.
We also have a track record of making targeted acquisitions of companies with exciting technology, which open new growth areas for us.
Charter is our case and complaints management platform.
Compendia is our award-winning pension administration and It supports Intelligent Solutions offering, processing more payroll platform.
It is used to manage records and payments for than 4.5 million complaints on behalf of clients.
It is a highly around 9 million UK pension scheme members.
As well as using customisable solution, which supports automated FCA reporting, Compendia in our own business, we provide the platform as a root cause analysis and secure data management.
It gives our software solution to in-house pension teams, either on-premise clients a wide variety of business-critical data in a single view, or as a managed service solution.
enabling swift and efficient processes.
Compendia offers self-service functionality to scheme members, through our mobile app and responsive web design.
This improves members experience, helps them to plan their retirements, increases their engagement with the scheme and improves efficiency for the schemes themselves.
Sirius is our core share register management platform, Xanite is our custody and settlement wealth management supporting our registration, dividend payment and share plan platform.
Through its interface with SWIFT and CREST, it administration services.
It can handle vast processing volumes, supports share dealing for both retail investors and corporate managing over 70 million data records on behalf of 19 million clients, as well as our outsourcing services for wealth managers.
shareholders and making payments of 44bn in 2018.
Sirius The platform also enables us to provide asset custody services receives approximately one million internal website hits each day and supports our growing D2C business, which we deliver and delivers an average response time of less than one second.
through our Selftrade web and mobile offering.
10 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS OUR FOUR PRIMARY PLATFORMS ARE CHARTER, COMPENDIA, SIRIUS AND XANITE.
OUR OTHER IMPORTANT PLATFORMS INCLUDE: Our technology underpins our strategy of expanding Our executive share plans platform our service offering, while adapting to changing client and regulatory requirements The proprietary technology platform operated for loan administration services Our client on-boarding and  platform Our fraud detection platform 11
