Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements OPINION BASIS FOR OPINION In our opinion, Equiniti Group plcs Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International and Company financial statements the financial statements : Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements profit and the Groups cash flows for the year then ended: section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis have been properly prepared in accordance with International for our opinion.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial INDEPENDENCE statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the of the Companies Act 2006: and ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonstatements of financial position as at 31 December 2018: the audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were consolidated income statement and consolidated statement not provided to the Group or the Company.
of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, flows, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall Group materiality: 2.5 million 2017: 3.1million, based on 2.5% of Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA.
Overall Company materiality: 1.5 million 2017: 2.0 million, based on 1% of total assets.
MATERIALITY Full scope audits were performed in respect of five trading entities and also on a further two holding companies.
Additional specific audit procedures were performed on revenue and cash in a number of financially insignificant entities to achieve required levels of audit coverage.
AUDIT SCOPE Overall, these audit procedures provided coverage of 71% of consolidated revenue and 68% of consolidated EBITDA.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Determination of goodwill and recognition of acquisition related intangible assets Consideration of the carrying value of goodwill and related impairment assessments.
Capitalisation of software development costs and related assessments of carrying value.
124 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT statements, assessing the impact of whistleblowing incidents As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and and managements investigation of such matters, and testing a assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial sample of journal entries.
There are inherent limitations in the statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made audit procedures described above and the further removed subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
we would become aware of it.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory We did not identify any key audit matters relating to framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including including testing journals and evaluating whether there was fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the material misstatement due to fraud.
risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, KEY AUDIT MATTERS as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a of the financial statements of the current period and include the material misstatement in the Group and Company financial most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those 2006, the Listing Rules, pensions legislation, tax legislation, the which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the Financial Conduct Authoritys Client Asset Sourcebook and the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of US Securities and Exchange Commissions regulations relating the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we to registered transfer agents.
Our tests included, but were not make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed limited to, review of correspondence with the regulators in the in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, UK and US in respect of the Groups regulated business, review and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a of correspondence with the Groups internal, and where relevant, separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list external legal advisers, enquiries of management, review of of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated managements assessment of the new requirements under IFRS 15, and we assessed Revenue recognition whether the revenue recognised is in line with the Groups accounting policy and IFRS 15.
We The Group enters into a number of contracts performed substantive tests, validating revenue recognised by the Group, on a sample basis, to which include multiple elements for example underlying evidence, including contracts, correspondence with customers, and cash payments.
the sale of licences, hosting and support Corporate action revenue services, and which can straddle accounting periods.
We selected a sample of revenues relating to corporate actions that had not completed at the year end and performed the following: The Group has adopted IFRS 15 this year.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Obtained the signed contracts with the customer to understand the total revenue receivable specifies a five step approach to determine the by the Group and the performance obligations contained therein: amount and timing of revenue recognition and Obtained and reperformed managements calculations of the percentage of completion for requires that an appropriate amount of revenue each such project at the year end: i. e. the fair value should be recognised for each Agreed the hours incurred by the year end to timesheets: and separate performance obligation.
Considered the reasonableness of the time required to complete any remaining performance Our main focus on revenue recognition obligations after the year end, as well as the actual outturn.
related to corporate actions that had not fully completed at the year end and multiple element No exceptions were noted.
contracts which involve an element of software Contracts with multiple elements including software licence sales sales.
These involve management judgement relating to amount and the timing of revenue For a sample of multiple element contracts, we assessed whether the separate performance recognition.
See note 2.4 to the financial obligations had been appropriately identified.
We performed testing over the fair value attributed to each performance obligation by comparing the margins or selling prices used in statements.
managements calculations to those achieved on similar contracts when sold separately.
When reviewing the signed contracts we assessed whether the customer had an enforceable right to use the licence at the year end and if Equiniti had an enforceable right to payment and, where necessary, challenged management to provide additional evidence of delivery and acceptance of the related deliverable.
Where appropriate we sought and received additional confirmatory evidence directly from the customer.
125 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Determination of goodwill and recognition of In order to assess the appropriateness of the residual goodwill figure determined by managements acquisition accounting exercise we performed audit work on the consideration acquisition related intangible assets payable, the net assets acquired excluding acquired intangible assets and the identification During the year the Group made three and valuation of acquisition related intangible assets.
acquisitions, the most significant of which was Consideration and net assets excluding intangible assets the purchase of the trade and assets of Wells Fargo Shareholders Services business EQ We obtained the acquisition agreements and read them to understand the substance of the US.
EQ US was acquired on 1 February 2018 transactions, including the elements that comprised the total consideration payable and the for a total consideration of 169.5 million.
See assets and liabilities acquired.
note 4.1 to the financial statements.
We agreed the cash element of the consideration to bank statements, and tested other Accounting for the acquisition required a elements, such as hedging transaction costs, to underlying evidence.
fair value exercise to assess the assets and We obtained managements assessment of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and audited liabilities acquired, including valuing any the underlying amounts recorded including adjustments that were made as a result of this separately identifiable intangible assets, and assessment to record assets and liabilities at fair value.
The most significant intangible asset related to customer No exceptions were noted, and we concluded that appropriate adjustments had been made relationships.
The valuation of intangible assets to reflect the acquired assets and liabilities at fair value as required by IFRS 3 Business involves judgement including managements combinations.
use of assumptions such as forecast revenues, Recognition and measurement of intangible assets customer attrition rates and the application of We assessed the completeness of intangible assets identified by management with reference an appropriate discount rate.
to our own expectations formed from our knowledge and experience of common acquisition Whilst we audited the accounting for the three related intangible assets recorded in business combinations.
acquisitions made during the year, we focussed With the support of our valuation experts, we assessed the fair values attributed to the specifically on the EQ US transaction because intangibles, performing the following: of its relative significance to the Group and the quantum of the amounts recorded in the We evaluated and tested the methodology, underlying assumptions and mechanical financial statements.
accuracy of the model used to fair value the customer relationship intangible asset: In doing so we assessed the appropriateness of the cash flow projections that underpinned the valuation model by validating them to the Prospectus issued in connection with the 2017 rights issue to fund the acquisition including adjustments to those cash flow projections, budgets and also considered the appropriateness of the growth rates applied in the model: We assessed other key assumptions used in the model such as the customer attrition and discount rates, including where relevant considering them in light of historic experience and post-acquisition performance.
We then considered the amount of residual goodwill in proportion to the total consideration and the fair value of other assets acquired.
Based on the audit procedures performed we concluded that the amounts recorded in the financial statements are appropriate.
Our work also considered the disclosures made in respect of acquisitions in the financial statements and we concluded that these were compliant with the requirements of IFRS 3.
126 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Consideration of the carrying value of goodwill We obtained managements impairment assessment calculations and tested the forecast cash and related impairment assessments flows used therein to the latest Board approved plans for the Group.
We evaluated the assumptions in these forecasts and plans and considered the evidence IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires that provided for these, principally focussing on historical trends and actual performance during management perform an annual impairment the year ended 31 December 2018.
As part of this work we considered revenue projections exercise for indefinite lived intangible assets including any growth rates applied, the basis for any significant short and long term growth such as goodwill to determine whether there assumptions, cash outflows for costs, and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows.
has been any impairment to the carrying value.
In considering managements impairment exercise we also challenged the identification of When the Group purchases businesses, any individual cash generating units by management, and whether these were appropriate in goodwill arising is attributed to one of the relation to the way in which the Groups business is run, and based on the evidence provided, Groups operating divisions.
This division is then concluded that managements approach was consistent with the requirements of IAS 36. identified as the cash generating unit for future impairment monitoring unless analysis at a more Based on the audit procedures performed we did not identify any material misstatements.
We also considered the disclosure requirements of IAS 36 and concluded that the information Managements annual impairment review of given by management in respect of their annual goodwill impairment review was compliant with goodwill did not identify the need to impair the those requirements.
value recorded in the financial statements as at 31 December 2018.
We focused on this area given: the quantum of the goodwill recorded in the financial statements: and the significance of the assumptions, such as cash flows, growth rates and the discount rate used in managements impairment assessment models.
Refer to note 4.3 which provides further detail on the 524.1 million goodwill balance as at 31 December 2018 and the related impairment testing disclosures made by management.
Capitalisation of software development costs We evaluated the Groups accounting policy for capitalisation of software related costs, and the and related assessments of carrying value controls implemented by management to help ensure this is applied consistently.
We selected a sample of software development costs capitalised during the year and: The Group invests significant amounts in purchasing and developing software that is Assessed the evidence to determine whether the IAS 38 criteria had been met.
This included used, or sold or licensed to customers, by each obtaining and assessing the revenue and profitability forecasts prepared by management to of its operating divisions.
See note 4.3 to the support the capitalisation of such costs, and evaluating the assumptions made therein.
Considered whether such costs related to new or enhanced software functionality or were During the year the Group invested 38.1 million incurred to replace superseded functionality.
in software development of which 16.2 million Tested the amounts capitalised to underlying evidence, such as contracts with third party related to internal development costs.
As at 31 contractors or, in the case of internal staff costs capitalised, records and other evidence December 2018 the net book value of software corroborating the time spent by relevant employees on development activity, and reviewed development capitalised amounted to 89.1 the reasonableness of the capitalisation rates used by management.
Our work also included analytical procedures to identify any unusual patterns in the timing of We focused on this area given: amounts capitalised in order to assess whether we needed to perform additional enquiries with management exercise of judgement in management or obtain further audit evidence.
assessing whether the requisite capitalisation: We assessed the useful economic lives being used to amortise capitalised costs by considering and criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible whether there was evidence to suggest these should be revised, and compared them to the assets have been met prior to the Groups stated accounting policy and our own experience of rates used elsewhere.
We also considered managements assessment of any indicators of impairment in respect of the risk that the carrying value of previously capitalised software costs to identify whether any material impairment charges should have capitalised amounts may be impaired if they been recorded in the financial statements.
are superseded by new development activity or that circumstances change such that, No exceptions were noted.
for example, managements assessment of original business case, or the estimated useful life which is used to calculate the related amortisation rates, are no longer appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
127 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic and divisional structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into four main operating divisions Investment Solutions, Intelligent Solutions, Pension Solutions and EQ US and operates primarily in the UK and US with back office functions performed by a shared service centre in India.
It operates through a number of legal entities in these locations.
We performed full scope audit procedures on five trading entities each either a separate reporting unit or a sub-group of reporting units and a further two holding companies.
We then extended our testing in relation to revenue and cash to ensure that we achieved required levels of audit coverage.
Overall, these audit procedures provided coverage of 71% of consolidated revenue and 68% of consolidated EBITDA.
Of the seven full scope audits, six audits were performed by the Group engagement team based in the UK.
For one entity, Equiniti US, a separate PwC component audit team based in the USA performed the audit under instruction from the Group team.
The risks and proposed audit response for Equiniti US were agreed with the component team prior to the commencement of that audit.
The Group engagement team reviewed the work of the PwC component audit team in the US and attended the clearance meeting to discuss the audit work and findings.
As part of the review and supervision of the US component audit team, senior members of the Group team visited the US to evaluate the work performed both before and after the year end date, including reviewing relevant audit working papers.
As part of our work we also considered the activities performed by the Groups dedicated shared service centre in India to understand the finance-related processes that are relevant to the preparation of the financial statements.
A sample of transactions processed by the shared service centre were subject to audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team.
Additionally, the Group engagement team performed additional audit work over tax balances, share based payments, and business combinations including consideration of managements goodwill impairment review and the financial reporting consolidation as these items are controlled centrally.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements 2.5 million 2017: 3.1million.
Overall materiality 2.5% of Earnings Before Interest Based on 1% of total assets.
How we determined it Tax Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consolidated EBITDA is an important Total assets is the primary measure measure used by the shareholders to used by shareholders in assessing the assess the performance of the Group and performance of the Company and is a this is considered a generally accepted generally accepted auditing benchmark.
auditing benchmark for the calculation of Materiality for the Company was capped materiality.
to a level below overall materiality used in the Group financial statements.
128 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.0 million and 1.5 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 125,000 Group audit 2017: 150,000 and 125,000 Company audit 2017: 150,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the draw attention to.
However, because directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting not all future events or conditions can in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material be predicted, this statement is not uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern a guarantee as to the Groups and over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial Companys ability to continue as a going statements.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Group and Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
129 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 71 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 71 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules OTHER CODE PROVISIONS We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 71, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 72 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 130 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Equiniti Group plc RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 11 February 2011 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is nine years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2018.
Darren L Meek Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Gatwick 12 March 2019 131
