Financial Statements Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Essentras performance and financial position.
Accounting Estimates i Business combinations and intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates and judgements such as customer attrition, cash flow generation from the existing relationships with customers and returns on other assets.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the finite-lived intangible assets and other assets of the Groups cash generating units.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
An estimate is also required in identifying the events which indicate potential impairment, and in assessing fair value of individual assets when allocating an impairment loss in a cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units.
The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests for impairment, as detailed in note 8.
The useful lives of the Groups finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
Judgement may also be required in determining the fair value of other assets acquired and liabilities including contingent liabilities assumed.
ii Pensions Essentra accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19.
The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes see note 17.
In consultation with Essentras actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Essentras circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
The Group performs a sensitivity analysis for the significant assumptions used in determining post-employment costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 17. iii Taxation Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Where Management concludes a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered probable based on the information available.
Key judgement areas for the Group include the pricing of intercompany goods and services as well as the tax consequences arising from restructuring operations.
Included in the tax payable is a liability of 17.7m 2017: 18.9m for transfer pricing matters and 17.7m 2017: 19.0m for other uncertain tax positions.
The movement is due to adjustments for current year transactions, foreign exchange movements, expiry of statute of limitations following the passage of time and agreement reached with tax authorities on previous matters.
The group is aware of the European Commission press release on 26 October 2017 where the Commission opened an in-depth investigation into the UKs finance company partial exemption from controlled foreign company rules to determine whether EU state aid rules have been breached.
Management does not consider it probable that an outflow of cost will arise to the Group as a consequence of this and so no current or deferred tax liability is held.
Management considers it impracticable to calculate the potential contingent liability since there is too much uncertainty regarding how the process may conclude.
Management note the European Commission investigation is ongoing and will monitor the progress of this investigation.
Management may engage with professional advisors in making their assessment and, if appropriate, will liaise with the relevant taxation authorities to resolve the matter.
The tax liability is reassessed in each period to reflect Managements best estimate in light of information available.
If the final outcome of these matters differs to the liability held in the financial statements, the difference may impact the income tax charge credit in the year the matter is concluded.
Accounting Judgements i Exceptional and other adjusting items Judgement is required to determine whether items should be included within exceptional and other adjusting items by virtue of their size or incidence.
Details of the items categorised as exceptional are disclosed in note 2.
124 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 124 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
