Strategic Report Executive Board Directors Group Management Committee Paul Forman Lily Liu Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Pauls biographical details Lilys biographical details can be found on page 68. can be found on page 68.
Divisions Scott Fawcett Iain Percival Kamal Taneja Tim Wilson Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, President, Components Packaging Filters Specialist Components Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in Iain Percival joined Essentra as Kamal Taneja joined Essentra as Tim Wilson was appointed as 2010 as Managing Director of the Managing Director, Essentra Managing Director, Essentra President, Essentra Specialist European Components business, Packaging in 2017, before which Filters in 2017 from Amcor Components in January 2018, and was appointed divisional he was divisional CEO, Beverage Tobacco Packaging, where he prior to which he was President Managing Director in January Cans Europe for Rexam plc.
Prior worked as Vice President and and Chief Executive Officer of 2014.
Prior to joining Essentra, to this, Iain held a number of General Manager, based in Arnold Magnetic Technologies, Scott was Head of eCommerce increasingly senior roles at Singapore.
Prior to this, Kamal a leading global manufacturer at Electrocomponents plc, where Rexam plc, Toyota Motor held increasingly senior roles at of engineered magnetic he held a variety of increasingly Europe Manufacturing and Ingersoll Rand and Trane, and solutions.
After an early career senior sales, marketing and Dowty Group, and has extensive has extensive marketing, in Operations roles, Tim held eCommerce positions during experience in category commercial, operational and increasingly senior positions his 17-year career there.
management, manufacturing supply chain optimisation with ENI a division of Emerson and supply chain optimisation.
experience throughout the Asia Electrics and Videojet a division Pacific region.
of Danaher Corporation, and has extensive international manufacturing and commercial experience.
46 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Enabling functions See more on the Board of Directors on page 68 Richard Cammish Oshin Cassidy Kathrina FitzGerald Chief Information Officer Group Human Resources Strategy and Commercial Director Director Richard Cammish joined Essentra as Chief Information Officer in Oshin Cassidy joined Essentra as Kathrina FitzGerald was June 2017.
Prior to this he was Group Human Resources Director appointed as Strategy and Group Chief Information Officer in January 2019.
Prior to joining Commercial Director in January for Coats plc.
During his career, Essentra, Oshin was Group 2018.
Prior to joining Essentra, Richard has gained extensive IT, Human Resources Director Kathrina worked with DMGT plc digital and international at Imagination Technologies, a portfolio of information and experience in organisations and has extensive human media businesses where she including Heineken, Cadbury, resources experience having held a number of increasingly British American Tobacco and previously held senior roles at senior roles during her ten-year Mars.
He has also worked for global organisations including tenure, including Business a leading management Securitas, ComfortDelGro, Development Director, Managing consultancy and in a technology Centrica and QinetiQ.
Director of DMGT International start-up business.
and Director of Strategy and Development.
Kathrina started her career at JP Morgan, where she spent seven years in investment banking.
Jon Green Nick Pennell Company Secretary Group Operations Director and General Counsel Nick Pennell joined Essentra as Group Operations Director Jon Green joined Essentra in in 2017, prior to which he was 2005, and was appointed Chairman of Lavery Pennell Company Secretary and General and a Partner at Booz Allen Counsel in July 2005.
Prior to Hamilton Booz and Co. in joining Essentra, Jon worked as the UK and China.
Nick an in-house lawyer for a number has extensive experience of large international businesses, of performance improvement, including Hays plc and Unilever operational and strategy plc.
development projects gained across the industrial and energy sectors, and in many geographies.
He has also held operational and corporate strategy roles at Bass Brewers and at Shell.
GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47
