Directors Report Other Statutory Information The Directors present their Report prepared in accordance Directors with the Companies Act 2006, which requires the Company to As at 31 December 2018, the Board of Directors comprised: provide a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2018, and audited Financial Paul Lester Non-Executive Chairman Statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Chief Executive Paul Forman Chief Finance Officer Lily Liu The Companys Registered Office is Avebury House, 201249 Non-Executive Director Tommy Breen Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 1AU.
Non-Executive Director Mary Reilly Non-Executive Director The Directors Report comprises pages 66 to 109, and the sections Lorraine Trainer of the Annual Report incorporated by reference are as set out below: Ralf K. Wunderlich Non-Executive Director Membership of Board during 2018 financial year page 72 The Company is adopting the requirements of the UK Corporate Financial instruments and financial risk management pages 42 to 43 Governance Code 2016 in relation to Directors appointments, CO emissions page 27 2 and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
Corporate Governance report pages 72 to 77 Lily Liu was appointed as Chief Finance Officer on 15 November Future developments of the business of the Group pages 16 to 17 2018 and will be putting herself forward for election at the 2019 Employee diversity pages 22 to 25 AGM, having been appointed since the 2018 AGM.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Except for the above, in accordance with provision B.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors previously elected at Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4 is set out an AGM, and being eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have service contracts.
Results and dividends In accordance with the Companys Conflict of Interests policy, The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the total Group Directors are required to review their potential conflict of interests for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 28.1m 2017: profit at least on an annual basis and to notify any changes to the 115.8m.
Company Secretary and General Counsel as soon as possible.
During 2018 the current register was approved at each Board The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the continuing meeting and no material conflicts of interest were identified operations for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 28.1m during the year.
At no time during the year has any Director had any material As at 1 March 2019, the Company has paid the following dividend interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018: significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in shares of the Company is on page 99.
Per share Total p m Share capital Interim dividend paid 31 October 2018 6.3 16.5 The issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 14.4p 2017: On 31 December 2018, there were 264,129,170 ordinary shares of 25p 14.4p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for each in issue.
There were 1,127,065 ordinary shares of 25p each held the year of 20.7p 2017: 20.7p.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and the provisions governing the appointment and The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, replacement of, as well as the powers of, the Companys Directors, will be paid on 3 June 2019 to shareholders on the register on are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of 26 April 2019. which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
104 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Significant agreements Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in The Company has committed bank facilities dated November 2017 the Company, except, in the case of transfers of securities: consisting of two five-year multi-currency revolving credit facilities of 285m and 100.8m.
Under the terms of these facilities, the that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed banks can give notice to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and cancel the commitments where there is a change of control whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct of the Company.
Authority, certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior notes due 29 April 2020 and a further note No persons hold securities in the Company carrying special rights purchase agreement dated 29 November 2017 relating to a total with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of US$75.0m senior notes due between 29 November 2024 and of any agreements between holders of securities that may result 29 November 2029, on a change of control the Company must in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
make an offer to prepay all the notes at par, without any premium of any kind, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating Association may be amended by special resolution of the to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally Companys shareholders.
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Substantial shareholders There are a number of other agreements, involving the Company At the close of business on 1 March 2019, the Company was advised or its subsidiaries, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a of the following voting rights attaching to the Companys shares in change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on % of total voting rights the business of the Group as a whole, to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
Prudential plc 5.86 Invesco 5.10 Annual General Meeting Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5.09 4.82 Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited The AGM of the Company will be held at the Hilton London Paddington, 146 Praed Street, London, W2 1EE on 23 May 2019 AXA Investment Managers 4.81 at 12 noon.
Employees In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included As at 31 December 2018, the Company employed 8,089 people in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: globally and 1,181 people in the UK.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment, engagement and the Authority to allot unissued shares employment of disabled persons can be found in Our People At the 2018 AGM, the Directors were granted authority to allot on pages 22 to 25. relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 21,913,274, which expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
Political contributions At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant the In line with Group policy, the Company made no political Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for contributions 2017: nil.
or convert any security into shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 21,916,842 representing approximately one-third of Environmental the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 1 March 2019 such an amount to be reduced by the nominal The disclosures concerning CO emissions required by law are 2 amount allotted or granted under section ii below in excess of included in Corporate Responsibility on pages 26 to 29. such sum : and ii comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 43,833,684 representing approximately Directors indemnities two-thirds of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, During the year, and as at the date of this Report, indemnities at 1 March 2019 such an amount to be reduced by any allotments are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify or grants made under section i above in connection with an offer the Directors and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, in by way of a rights issue.
addition to other senior executives who are Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders connection with the execution of their powers, duties and interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention responsibilities as a Director or Officer of the Company or any of its of exercising either of these authorities, which will expire at the end subsidiaries, including the pension scheme trustee companies.
The of next years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 23 July scope of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
2020 except in relation to share options.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 Directors Report Other Statutory Information continued Allotment of shares for cash During the financial year ending 31 December 2018, 43,860 ordinary At the 2018 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution shares were transferred out of Treasury by the Company to satisfy to enable the Directors to allot shares for cash without first share options under the Companys Sharesave and executive share offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their incentive plans.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM and resolutions 14 and 15 in the Notice of AGM No dividends have been paid on shares while held in Treasury and seeks to renew it.
no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
As per previous years, the Company seeks a resolution which External Auditor authorises disapplication of pre-emption rights in respect of  have expressed their willingness to up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,287,526 representing continue to be appointed as External Auditor of the Company.
This aggregate nominal amount Upon the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of resolutions to appoint them as External Auditor and to authorise the Company excluding treasury shares.
the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
In addition to the above Resolution, the Company seeks a Resolution which authorises disapplication of pre-emption rights Recommendation in respect of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,287,526 representing 13,150,105 ordinary shares in connection with The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual acquisitions and other capital investments as contemplated by General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
This aggregate shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that nominal amount represents an additional 5% of the issued ordinary shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
Derivatives These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 23 July 2020.
The proposal conforms to the Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies Policies on page 119 and in note 18 on page 146. to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
Going concern statement Purchase of own shares At the 2018 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution to The Directors have assessed whether the Company has adequate enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
That approval resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
future and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated Financial Statements.
At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase, in the Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash market, up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding any flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in treasury shares for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, such the Financial Review on pages 42 to 43.
As described on pages power to apply until the end of next years AGM or if earlier, 23 July 30 to 41, a number of Principal Risks could potentially affect the 2020.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of Groups results and financial position.
In addition, note 18 to the the Financial Conduct Authority, the minimum price exclusive of Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and expenses which may be paid for a share is its nominal value and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management the maximum price exclusive of expenses for shares which may objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging be paid is the highest of: i an amount equal to 105% of the activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
average market value for a share for the five business days Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21.
Essentra is immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher primarily funded by a series of USA Private Placement Loan notes of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current from various financial institutions.
An $80m Loan note which was independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is repaid in April 2017 was refinanced in November 2017 with three carried out.
new Loan notes totalling $75m and the new Revolving Credit Facility of 375.0m.
At 31 December 2018 available bank facilities The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority totalled 375.0m 2017: 374.2m.
The USA Private Placement notes to make market purchases, however the authority provides the have original maturities ranging from seven and 12 years and the flexibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will Revolving Credit Facility matures in November 2022. only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally, and The Directors have prepared plans and forecasts for a period could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share of of at least 12 months from the date of signing these Financial the Company.
Based on these, and taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 18 and the Principal Risks described on pages 30 to 41, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated Financial Statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
106 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT Long-term viability statement and a financial forecast for the following two years.
The plan will be subject to annual updates by management and review by the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Corporate Governance Board.
As a consequence, the Directors have chosen a three-year Code, the Directors have assessed the longer-term viability of the time horizon for the Longer-Term Viability Statement LTVS as Company over the period to December 2021. being an appropriate time frame for assessing the viability of the Company.
However, the Directors have also given due The assessment has been based on the Companys strategy and consideration to any potential risks beyond this time horizon.
implementation programme, balance sheet and financing position, and the potential impact of the key risks and uncertainties described above.
The Company strategy has been translated into a three-year strategic plan comprising a one-year detailed budget Scenario 1 Scenario 3 Level of severity tested Level of severity tested 0.5 million increase in cost in 5.4 million one-off exceptional Cyber attack base scenario year one Cyber attack middle scenario cash cost in year one 6.6% fall in revenue and 22% 5.5% fall in revenue and 36.8% decline in the operating profit decline in the operating profit in year one with no recovery in year one with no recovery Business continuity event assumed of this in the following Business continuity event assumed of this in the following middle scenario two years severe scenario two years 3.9% fall in revenue and 26% 3.9% fall in revenue decline in the operating profit in and 26% decline in the years one and two.
In year three operating profit in years we have assumed recovery of one and two.
In year three Macro-economic and trade lost revenue and a 3.6% decline we have assumed recovery of deal uncertainty inc. Brexit in the operating profit Macro-economic and trade deal lost revenue and a 3.6% decline uncertainty inc. Brexit in the operating profit Scenario 2 Scenario 4 Level of severity tested Level of severity tested 10.8 million one-off exceptional 10.8 million one-off exceptional Cyber attack severe scenario cash cost in year one Cyber attack severe scenario cash cost in year one 1.2% fall in revenue in year one 5.5% fall in revenue and 36.8% with no recovery assumed of decline in the operating profit in Business continuity event this lost revenue in the following year one with no recovery base scenario two years Business continuity event assumed of this in the following severe scenario two years 3.9% fall in revenue and 26% decline in the operating profit in 3.9% fall in revenue and 26% years one and two.
In year three decline in the operating profit in we have assumed recovery of years one and two.
In year three Macro-economic and trade deal lost revenue and a 3.6% decline we have assumed recovery of uncertainty inc. Brexit in the operating profit Macro-economic and trade deal lost revenue and a 3.6% decline uncertainty inc. Brexit in the operating profit OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 Directors Report Other Statutory Information continued This assessment was informed by our judgements as to the Directors statement as to disclosure potential financial impact of these risks if they materialise.
In order of information to the External Auditor to support the assessment of the viability, the Directors have As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the considered the following realistic and plausible scenarios: Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the To further stress test our long-term viability the Directors have external auditor, confirm that: assumed that the risks in each scenario would all crystallise simultaneously.
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys External Auditor is unaware To perform further stress testing of our viability, the Directors have also considered the worst case events from each of the scenarios Each Director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought as follows: to have taken as a Director to ascertain any relevant audit information, and to ensure that the Companys External Auditor In making the assessment, the Directors have made a number of is aware of that information assumptions and considerations: the Strategic Report and Directors Report, including the Report of the Remuneration Committee, were approved by the Board capital markets and bank funding will continue to be available on 1 March 2019 over the period in the event of a major risk crystallising, the Company would By order of the Board take corrective capital action to preserve the cash resources of the firm Jon Green Company Secretary management would be in a position to implement effective 1 March 2019 mitigation actions to reduce the impact a potential risk event Based on the modelling undertaken, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operational existence and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment.
