Directors Report Committee membership key 1 Audit and Risk Committee Board of 2 Nomination Committee 3 Remuneration Committee 4 Committee Chairman Directors Paul Lester, CBE Paul Forman Lily Liu Tommy Breen Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director 2 4 2 1 2 3 Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: December 2015 January 2017 November 2018 April 2015 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Paul is currently Non-Executive Prior to joining Essentra, Paul was Prior to joining Essentra, Lily Prior to his recent retirement, Chairman of Forterra plc Group Chief Executive of Coats was CFO of Xaar Plc, a FTSE Tommy was Chief Executive of the leading UK producer of Group plc the worlds leading listed inkjet technology developer DCC plc, an international sales, manufactured masonry products industrial thread manufacturer and manufacturer of industrial marketing, distribution and McCarthy and Stone plc for seven years, where he inkjet printheads.
Before this, business support services group, the UKs leading retirement oversaw company rationalisation Lily was CFO, Smiths Detection headquartered in Dublin and housebuilder and Knight Square as well as growth through at Smiths Group plc, and has with operations in 13 countries.
Holdings the property services acquisition, instigated and nearly 20 years of experience in Tommy brings significant business.
Paul brings a wealth of delivered a clear vision and the manufacturing and experience to Essentra, in experience to Essentra, gained in corporate strategy, drove engineering sectors.
particular of growing diverse increasingly senior operational material improvements in businesses both organically and Lily began her career with a and strategic executive roles, financial performance and built via acquisition during his 30-year Chinese investment firm before and has also served on a number the momentum to position the career with DCC.
emigrating to Australia to of Boards in a non-executive business as an innovative and complete a MBA, and she has Past appointments: capacity for more than 20 years.
Before worked across three continents Chief Executive of DCC plc.
assuming the role of Chief Other appointments: Asia, Europe and Australia.
Executive, Paul held a number Non-Executive Chairman of of increasingly senior operational Other appointments: Forterra plc, McCarthy and Stone and strategic positions at a None plc and Knight Square Holdings.
variety of companies, and has a proven track record of Past appointments: Past appointments: international manufacturing Chief Financial Officer of Xaar Chairman of John Laing experience at the highest level.
Infrastructure Fund, Greenergy and Parabis Group, Chief Other appointments: Executive of VT Group plc and Non-Executive Director Graseby plc, Group Managing of Tate and Lyle plc.
Director of Balfour Beatty plc, President of the Society of Past appointments: Maritime Industries, the BSA Group Chief Executive of Coats and the EEF.
Group plc and Low and Bonar PLC, Non-Executive Director of Brammer plc.
68 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT 1 Audit and Risk Committee 2 Nomination Committee 3 Remuneration Committee 4 Committee Chairman See more on the Group Management Committee on page 46 Mary Reilly Lorraine Trainer Ralf K. Wunderlich Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 2 3 Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: July 2017 July 2013 July 2017 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mary is currently a Non-Executive Lorraine began her executive Based in Germany, Ralf is Director of global media internet career at Citibank, and has some currently a senior adviser to company Travelzoo a USA-listed 20 years experience in Human private equity firms and an publisher of travel entertainment Resources at such blue chip independent consultant.
He and local offers Ferrexpo plc companies as the London Stock was previously President and an iron ore mining company Exchange and Coutts NatWest Managing Director of Amcor and Mitie Group plc a facilities Group.
Lorraine currently Flexibles Asia Pacific and a management company.
Mary combines her Board work with member of the Global Group brings a wealth of accounting, consultancy at and around Board Executive Team of Amcor, the finance and international level in Director development.
world leader in packaging with management experience to operations in approximately Other appointments: Essentra, having previously been 40 countries and revenue of Non-Executive Director and a Partner of Deloitte LLP for approximately US$10bn.
Ralf Chairman of the Remuneration more than twenty years, as brings extensive international Committee of Sonae SGPS, S. A. well as serving on a number experience in the packaging and of TP ICAP plc.
of Boards in a non-executive industry to Essentra, gained over capacity since 2000. many years and through living Past appointments: and working across three Non-Executive Director of Aegis Other appointments: continents.
Group plc and Colt Group S. A. Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director, Senior Chair of the Audit and Risk Other appointments: Independent Director and Committee of Travelzoo and of Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Ferrexpo plc.
Non-Executive of AptarGroup, Inc. and Committee of Jupiter Fund Director of Mitie Group plc.
Past appointments: Past appointments: Non-Executive Director of Cape Non-Executive Director plc, London 2012, the London of AMVIG.
Development Agency, Woodford Investment Managers, Crown Agents Ltd, Crown Agents Bank Ltd, Saranac Partners and the Department of Transport.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69
