Strategic Report Our purpose is to provide the Our Business parts, products and services Model our customers need to succeed as businesses.
What we do Who we serve How we do it Our products and services are We manufacture delivered by a team of thousands, Whether it is a tiny but critical framed by our business principles.
component or a bespoke solution to a complex need, we have the skills and capability to manufacture a wide range Automotive Equipment Fabrication manufacturing of products.
A WINNING We partner ENGAGED TEAM We take a long-term partnership approach with suppliers and customers so we can deliver what our customers Electronics Construction Oil and gas need, when they need it.
Freedom to operate within a framework We distribute Delivery keep our promises Our global scale and market knowledge mean that we are able to anticipate and Pharmaceutical Personal Care Tobacco Openness, honesty and Beauty meet the needs of our customers, and integrity whether large or small, in a wide variety of end-markets and geographies.
Safety, respect and diversity Energy for change Retail POP Paper & Board See Operational Review See Our People from page 22 from page 48 Our competitive advantage We are well positioned to Strength of customer Market-leading positions effectively manage our portfolio relationships We have market-leading positions of global leading, diverse Deep customer relationships and in the majority of our served activities in order to create expert customer service is at the markets providing us with the scale sustainable long-term value.
Ensuring we and expertise necessary to deliver anticipate and deliver on our for our customers.
customer needs is crucial to our success as a business.
10 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Creating value for our stakeholders Essentra is built on diversity.
Of parts, products and services.
Of customers, partners and markets.
Of people, perspectives and ideas.
Our customers Our people Our suppliers We put our customers first, We prioritise safety, employee We partner with a range partnering with them and engagement, diversity and of suppliers so that we can delivering On Time and In Full.
inclusion, creating an environment provide our customers with where our people feel respected a range of products across OTIF for 2018 with space to learn and grow.
% Employee engagement 1 92.4 2 95.6 3 98.5 75% 4 92.9 2017: 69% 1 Components 2 Packaging 3 Filters 4 Specialist Components Our communities Our shareholders We get behind local good We deliver shareholder causes while minimising our value through the strength environmental impact on the of our balance sheet, wider world around us.
customer relationships and market positions.
Reduction in waste to landfill Return on invested capital % 9.6 2018 16.3% 2017 8.6 2018 vs 2017 Diverse and market-leading Passion and skill of Global footprint product and service ranges our employees with local execution We invest in product research Our people are our greatest Our comprehensive international and robust quality systems in asset.
We take personal production and distribution order to deliver product innovation ownership of what we do each footprint can be flexed to respond and range development.
day and pride in what we help to customers needs, whether to achieve as a team.
they be product, service, cost or supply chain driven.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 Strategic Report Market Trends and Opportunities Our businesses are diverse in terms of geography, product and services, supplying a multitude of end-markets and customers.
Industrial Given their very wide application, Our opportunity the global market for industrial Uniquely combining the expertise and flexibility components is large, fragmented of a manufacturer with the range and service of and ill-defined for both suppliers a distributor, we work with over 70% of the worlds and customers.
However, the value top 100 manufacturers, providing small essential components and tapes for a wide range of needs.
of the Bill of Materials BOM small We offer rapid global distribution, with over 100,000 components market is estimated at industrial solutions with multiple applications and c. 8bn, with growth in line with more than 1 billion parts in stock in 21 countries.
ability to further expand our product ranges and to develop new sectors for our existing customer base We target the strong yet fragmented segment of small to together with our ongoing investment in our medium-sized manufacturers that typically require standard digital presence means that we are able to parts on their BOM, giving them the benefits of low continuously improve our hassle-free proposition.
development cost and rapid delivery to market of new products.
This sector is flexible, so as well as playing a critical While we serve a very broad spectrum of industrial support role in the global manufacturing tiers, it is also end-markets, we can scale our offering to the needs capable of adapting to new market trends such as 5G, of our customers as well as provide custom connected cities and e-mobility.
solutions, specialist advice and samples to ensure the optimal solution for their particular application.
This need for supply chain flexibility extends to just-in-time Our understanding of all the key elements of our delivery: as our customers are required to operate on this customers manufacturing processes together basis so they demand the same from us.
In addition, with our industry-accredited manufacturing standardised manufacturing processes typically require less footprint means that we are well-placed to labour, thereby helping customers reduce their cost base.
support them at each and every step: from There is also a trend among larger customers to design in replacing metal components with plastic to higher technology markets and then to manufacture in achieve weight reduction targets and improve fuel lower labour cost regions, which benefits components efficiency in the automotive sector, to providing suppliers with global reach.
more sophisticated cable management and noise reduction solutions to the white goods industry.
As end-markets become more sophisticated and demanding, so the requirement for higher-quality and or more functional components increases.
Over and above this more general trend, certain customers are increasingly facing regulatory guidelines in terms of the components they use.
Market size 8bn Source: Management estimates See Operational Review: Components from page 50 12 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Pharmaceutical, personal care and beauty Management estimates the value Our opportunity of the global addressable market for Our innovative approach in partnership with secondary pharmaceutical, personal customers and suppliers allows us to meet rapidly care and beauty packaging at changing industry requirements with a flexible and c. US$19bn, growing at a low to competitive response, while our end-to-end solutions help drive cost-efficiency and embed value.
mid single-digit level depending on the geographic region served.
Investment in the latest technology allows us to develop novel, value-added packaging and brand Increasing regulatory requirements, as well as brand product protection solutions, to meet legislative and protection and verification, are key considerations for the regulatory changes: it also means that we can industry.
As a result, there is a growing demand for packaging support the specific requirements of emerging solutions, which can help customers meet these evolving sectors, such as biopharma and clinical trials.
In requirements to track, trace and authenticate their products addition, the upgrading of equipment and digital through the supply chain.
capability as well as comprehensive quality management systems enhances our reliability With cartons, leaflets and labels being used to convey as a cost-competitive partner to our customers, critical information to patients, quality is also of paramount while allowing us to meet the growing demand importance.
However, considerations such as design for smaller batch manufacturing.
aesthetics, as well as sustainability are significant in assisting customers in communicating their brand messages and Our creative and secure design solutions provide engaging with consumers.
On the latter, paper-based enhanced communication and authentication packaging has superior credentials versus plastic, and is an opportunities, while our opening, closing resealing increasing feature of public awareness.
and tamper-evidence technologies allow us to add functional benefits or provide more As customers globalise their own activities, they are eco-friendly solutions.
increasingly seeking strategic multi-continental partners who can grow with them and reduce their supply chain risk while providing nimble and flexible manufacturing.
At the same time, there is a demand for partners who can deliver a complete offering from design to end-supply as well as those who are able to meet the clear pattern of one stop shopping by customers for their multiple packaging requirements.
Market size US$19bn Source: Management estimates See Operational Review: Packaging on page 54 MARKET TRENDS AND OPPORTUNITIES ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 S Stra trat te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Market Trends and Opportunities continued Tobacco The global cigarette filters Our opportunity market has an estimated value With over 60 years experience in developing both of US$4.5bn, with c. 90% of filters and tear tapes for the tobacco industry, manufacturing done in-house we have the knowledge and capability to translate by the multinational players.
the latest innovations, scientific testing methods and regulatory requirements into business success.
From manufacturing to packaging, our filters and The industry is heavily regulated around the world on health pressure-sensitive tear tapes provide a unique grounds, with significant restrictions on the way in which full-service proposition to our customers.
products can be marketed to consumers.
This regulation continues to evolve, not only in respect of traditional With a c. 50% share of the outsourced market and cigarettes and innovations such as e-cigarettes and an extensive filter archive, we are able to provide Heat Not Burn devices, but also the testing and packaging multiple solutions from lifestyle products requirements for these products.
eg, Slims Superslims, eco ranges to recessed filters which meet brand-specific requirements, Although the overall market is in modest decline, the growth as well as capsules, flavoured thread and markets of Asia which account for approximately 70% activated carbon products which provide of global cigarette volume are forecast to be flat.
as per capita income rises in eastern markets in particular, there is increasing demand for new products to reflect Our expertise also allows us to continue to provide associated lifestyle changes and consumer expectations additional or adjacent value-added services, and aspirations including environmental considerations, including a full bespoke service for roll-your-own such as sustainability and pollution.
brands, the provision of scientific testing services and emerging beyond tobacco products such as Counterfeiting of tobacco products and packaging Heat Not Burn and e-cigarettes.
continues to present a significant and increasing challenge for the industry, undermining brand value, presenting In addition, complex filters are more challenging a risk to consumers from low-quality goods and reducing to counterfeit, while our range of security solutions tax revenues.
which can be applied to our pressure-sensitive tear tapes provide overt, covert and forensic solutions and can also help to protect and verify genuine products in the continuing fight against the illicit trade.
Market size US$4.5bn Source: Euromonitor and management estimates See Operational Review: Filters on page 58 14 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Oil and gas Retail The global oil and gas market We serve a number of is prone to volatility in supply, retail-related segments, with the consequent from point of purchase fluctuations in energy prices to transit packaging.
having an impact on drilling activity and rig count.
While traditional retail space is reducing, online shopping continues to present attractive growth opportunities.
As oil and gas production techniques continue to evolve and end-markets become more sophisticated and demanding, so the adoption of new technologies and the requirement for higher-quality, regulatorycompliant components will continue to increase, Our opportunity as will customer focus on their cost base.
With many decades experience of manufacturing, coating and printing, both our tear tapes and speciality tapes businesses offer a comprehensive Our opportunity range of premium-quality adhesive products, designed to allow the easy opening of a products With ongoing investment in state-of-the art contents which are well suited to the transit manufacturing capability and further capacity, packaging segment for both traditional and we are well-placed to continue to meet industry online retail.
demands and to support end-market growth.
At the same time, our new product development In addition, our ability to invest in more efficient expertise means that we can continue to add equipment and manufacturing processes means to our comprehensive product offering, both that we can provide an extensive and costin terms of specification and price point.
competitive offering to our point of purchase customers, from extruded plastic ticket rails to Following the divestment of the PPT business in double-sided adhesive foam tapes used in the January 2019, our exposure to the oil and gas design or manufacture of temporary, semimarket has significantly reduced to a very modest permanent or permanent retail displays.
presence for the Components division.
See Operational Review: Specialist See Operational Review: Specialist Components on page 62 Components on page 62 MARKET TRENDS AND OPPORTUNITIES ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15
