Strategic Report Investment Case In 2018, the Essentra Group comprised nine businesses, Focused growth Established blue serving multiple and delivery of chip customer end-markets with strategy relationships a broad and differentiated range of products and services.
We have a clear, market-driven We develop and maintain a strategy for each of our close relationship with a wide divisions.
They operate in portfolio of blue chip customers, sizeable end-markets that who are successful leaders present opportunities for future in their respective markets.
growth, and in which we are The high standards of service fundamentally well-positioned and supply demanded by such to drive long-term growth and customers help to drive continuous margin expansion.
We continue to deliver on the Our manufacturing and potential of our Packaging distribution expertise adds value division in terms of both in response to customer demands, revenue and margin expansion, and our innovative capabilities robust organic and inorganic drive the joint development of growth in Components, the new products and services with opportunities within Filters key strategic partners.
stated game changers and Specialist Components value creation strategies.
8 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT In order to create sustainable long-term value, we seek to effectively and efficiently manage this portfolio of global leading, diverse activities, while adding further to this through a clearly articulated role for the Group underpinned by robust financial and capital allocation policies.
High-quality and Investment Strong financial efficient global in innovation position and operations with capabilities business model a strong value proposition We have a well-invested and The continued successful launch Our strategy calls for a significant flexible international sourcing, and commercialisation of new focus on cash flow generation, supply chain and production products and services is a key which is evidenced in wellinfrastructure.
This provides driver of our growth.
defined financial and capital businesses across the Company allocation policies and a strong Investment in research and with the opportunity to use the balance sheet.
development functions, supported existing infrastructure and by the identification of additional We have a highly experienced management to exploit new product sourcing opportunities and and well-regarded team leading opportunities efficiently and range development enhance our a diversified business.
harnessing this strength in Our extensive international diversity, with a clearly defined Robust quality systems maintained manufacturing and distribution and unifying role for the Group, to internationally accredited network ensures the delivery of we are well placed to create standards assist the fulfilment cost-competitive and high-quality sustainable long-term value of customers demands.
products in response to customers for our shareholders.
High levels of service and broad geographic reach are an important competitive differentiator.
INVESTMENT CASE ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9
