Governance Board of Directors The Board is delighted at the Companys admission during the year to the 30% Club A N R David Pritchard Andrew Rashbass Acting Chairman Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: December 2008 October 2015 Skills and experience: David Pritchard has extensive board level Skills and experience: Andrew Rashbass has broad international experience and brings a wealth of knowledge to the Board.
Between 2013 and David has over 30 years of experience in the financial services 2015 Andrew was Chief Executive of Reuters, the news division sector and was formerly Chairman of AIB Group UK plc, Chairman of Thomson Reuters.
Before joining Reuters, he spent 15 years of Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, Deputy Chairman of Lloyds TSB at The Economist Group, where for the last five years he was Group and a director of Scottish Widows Group and LCH.
David also served as Chairman of Songbird Estates plc.
David is a director of The Motability Tenth Anniversary Trust.
Wendy Pallot Andrew Ballingal Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: August 2018 Appointed to the Board: December 2012 Skills and experience: Wendy Pallot has over 15 years experience Skills and experience: Andrew Ballingal is Chief Executive of working as Group Finance Director in UK main market listed Ballingal Investment Advisors, an independent investment firm companies in the media sector.
Between 2011 and 2018, Wendy based in Hong Kong.
Andrew has over 20 years of experience in was Group Finance Director of Bloomsbury Publishing plc.
Prior to senior management positions in the financial services sector as an that, she was Group Finance Director for GCap Media plc and advisor, investor and partner in hedge and absolute return funds, GWR Group plc.
Wendy is the Non-Executive Chair and principally in the Asia Pacific region.
co-founder of a company which operates local radio stations, and a Governor of the Central School of Ballet.
She qualified as aChartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
Jan Babiak N Kevin Beatty N R Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: November 2017 December 2017 Skills and experience: Jan Babiak has over 25 years experience Skills and experience: Kevin Beatty is an experienced media in professional services in a variety of leadership roles at EY.
executive and is CEO of dmg media.
His prior roles in the media Jan holds non-executive director roles at Walgreens Boots Alliance, sector include Managing Director of the Scottish Daily Record and Inc. and Bank of Montreal.
Jan chairs the Audit Committee and Sunday Mail.
Kevin has also been COO of Associated New Media sits on the Finance Committee of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and Northcliffe Newspapers.
and chairs the Audit and Conduct Review Committee and sits on the Governance and Nominating Committee at the Bank of Montreal.
Jan is a US qualified Certified Public Accountant, a UK qualified Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, where she has served as a Council Member since 2011.
Jan is also qualified as a Certified Information Security Manager and Certified Information System Auditor.
40 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Go Gov vernance ernance Key A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nominations Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chair A N A N Tim Collier Tristan Hillgarth Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: November 2017 Appointed to the Board: December 2012 Skills and experience: Tim Collier is Chief Financial Officer of Daily Skills and experience: Tristan Hillgarth has over 30 years of Mail and General Trust plc.
His experience spans media and experience in asset management and has held senior positions at business information industries and prior to joining DMGT he was Framlington, Invesco and Jupiter.
He is a Non-Executive Director of CFO of Thomson Reuters Financial and Risk Business.
JPMorgan Global Growth & Income plc.
Colin Day A Lorna Tilbian Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: March 2018 January 2018 Skills and experience: Colin Day has significant experience in Skills and experience: Lorna Tilbian is an experienced media senior operational and financial roles gained across a variety analyst having served as Head of the Media Sector at Numis of sectors.
He has previously held non-executive director roles Corporation Plc Numis and as a main board director at Numis and chaired the Audit Committee at Amec Foster Wheeler plc, for over ten years.
Lorna has served as a Cabinet Ambassador for WPP plc, Cadbury plc, Imperial Brands plc and EasyJet plc.
Creative Britain for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Colin spent his executive career in a range of senior roles including She is a Non-Executive Director at M&C Saatchi plc, Rightmove Chief Executive of Essentra PLC, Chief Financial Officer at Reckitt plc, Jupiter UK Growth Investment Trust PLC, ProVen VCT plc and Benckiser Group plc and Group Finance Director of Aegis Group Finsbury Growth & Income Trust plc.
Colin is a Non-Executive Director at Meggitt plc, where he chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Colin is also a Non-Executive Director of FM Global and Non-Executive board member for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, where he chairs the Audit and Risk Assurance Committee.
Colin is a Chartered Certified Accountant.
Imogen Joss R Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: November 2017 Skills and experience: Imogen Joss has held a number of senior executive positions in the business information industry and most recently served as the President of S&P Global Platts, Inc. She is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee at Gresham Technologies plc.
Imogen also holds Non-Executive Director roles at the International Property Securities Exchange and Grant Thornton, where she chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41
