Strategic Report Our strategy in action Bringing together commodities pricing under a single brand Case study: consolidating our price reporting businesses rangethrough a common brand We have been identifying price benchmarks for commodities since 1882.
Over the last year, we have consolidated our crosssector price-reporting businesses under Fastmarkets, a common brand.
As a result, we can now provide our customers with a single, definitive source for commodities data and insights.
The Fastmarkets team is made up of 400 employees across 14 global offices providing over 5,000 price references and benchmarks to enable the international trade of metals, minerals, lumber, pulp, paper and container board.
Fastmarkets prices are supplemented with world-class events, news, market intelligence and forecasts for its markets.
In addition, we have completed the successful integration of RISIinto our business and continued to invest through the acquisition of Random Lengths, a leader in wood products pricing, which is complementary to our existing strength in globalpulp and paper prices.
We are investing in our products by developing prices for commodity exchanges and transforming our prices into benchmarks.
We were selected this year by the London Metal Exchange to provide settlement prices for five cash-settled derivatives, which are expected to launch in 2019.
In addition, NASDAQ announced the launch of its first metal derivative with a contract settled against our AMM Midwest Shredded benchmark price.
We are investing in technology by developing a new consolidated platform that will better serve our customers, providing a dedicated portal for our pricing, workflow and advanced data tools.
Finally, we continue to lead the market through our alignment to the International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO principles, providing our customers with confidence in the integrity and accuracy of our prices.
Our success is built on providing value for our clients through the way we deliver and develop our prices.
Raju Daswani CEO, Fastmarkets 14 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our strategy in action Selling good businesses to buy strategic ones Case study: recycling capital Active portfolio management and recycling capital are fundamental parts of our strategy.
We are evolving our portfolio of businesses to provide our customers with B2B 3.0 information services.
In September 2017, we announced our intention to explore our strategic options for our Global Markets Intelligence Division GMID, consisting of the CEIC and EMIS brands.
We began a sales process and in April 2018, we concluded the sale of GMID to CITIC Capital Holdings and Caixin Global for an equity value of $180.5m.
GMID was and remains a leader in emerging market data and analysis, however, as a business it did not match our big themes.
It is an example of how we will sell good businesses which do not fit our strategic priorities or main investment themes, to enable us to invest in new businesses that will continue our acceleration towards becoming a B2B 3.0 business.
Our acquisitions of Random Lengths, Extel and TowerXchange are examples of the recycling of this capital towards our big investment themes.
These will support the continued development of our Fastmarkets, Institutional Investor and Telecoms divisions.
We will sell good businesses that do not fitour strategy in order togenerate capital for onesthat do.
Andrew Himsley Global Head of Corporate Development Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report Our strategy in action Consolidating as one digital brand Case study: moving Institutional Investor to digital only In April 2018, we took the decision to cease printing Institutional Investor magazine after 51 years and 588 issues.
We had started to migrate Institutional Investor away from print and towards digital media many years ago.
The decision to cease printing was the final step to ensure we can deliver on our customers need to measure the return on investment of their advertising spend.
Our Institutional Investor business has performed well this year, but our flagship print title had over the last few years moved into our bottom-left disinvest quadrant.
Disinvesting is not only about selling businesses: its also about redirecting capital away from products which could create a drag on an individual business, and moving it towards services which are growing and therefore merit increased investment.
At Institutional Investor we are investing in our industry-renowned research businesses and in-person events businesses.
We will continue to serve our loyal readership through the strongly growing Institutional Investor website and investing in the awards and events which enable its readership to network andconvene in person.
Our investor community values our ability to bring them together at must attend events.
Kip McDaniel Chief Content Officer and Editor-in-Chief, Institutional Investor 16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our strategy in action Risk management incontext Case study: risk management in action Successful risk management results in better business outcomes, which is why we have invested time this year designing a risk management framework for our events businesses across the Group.
For example, our Telecoms division hired a full-time Risk and Compliance Officer to work closely with the divisions event teams at both the planning, operational and post-event stage.
As a result, we are embedding risk management into our processes and creating a more risk-aware culture.
Our framework enables our event managers to identify and manage risks specific to an event in a consistent way.
It covers a range of areas including business continuity, disaster recovery, health and safety, venue risk assessments and compliance.
Our events and risk teams worked closely together at one of our largest commodity events of the year on areas as diverse as event security, media planning and health and safety standards.
The results have been mutually beneficial: the risk team now has a better understanding of the logistical challenges of running an event in real-time, improving their approach to the practical management of risk, while the events team benefits from seeing risks managed in a systematic way.
We have seen the benefits of the policy in action, for example, bynavigating the potential hazards of a drought in one of our event host cities and the successful operation of an event in another city at a time of political instability.
The work we have done in this area is an example of our best-of-both-worlds operating model in action.
We plan to build on it in the coming year.
We recognise that successful risk management results in better business outcomes.
Brenda Begg Ros Irving Risk and Divisional Compliance Director Officer Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
