Governance Directors Report Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, incorporated in England and Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares Wales, company number 954730, with its registered office at 8 Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders Bouverie Street, London, EC4Y 8AX, is listed on the London Stock meetings and the right to receive dividends and other distributions Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 share index.
according to the respective rights and interests attached to the shares.
There are no special control rights attached to them.
The Directors Report comprises pages 75 to 78 of this report The Company is not aware of any agreements or control rights together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by between existing shareholders that may result in restrictions on the reference.
Some of the matters required by legislation have been transfer of securities shares or loan notes or on voting rights.
included in the Strategic Report pages 2 to 39 as the Board considers them to be of strategic importance, particularly future Change of control business developments and principal risks.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a It is expected that the Company will continue to operate as the takeover bid.
These include the Groups debt facility agreement holding Company of the Group.
Subsidiaries of the Company have with HSBC under which the bank can demand immediate established branches in a number of different countries in which repayment of outstanding debt upon a change of control.
Other than this agreement, none of these agreements are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business Forward-looking statements of the Group as a whole.
The Companys share plans contain Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking.
provisions that take effect in such an event but do not entitle Such statements are based on current expectations and are participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future Details of the Directors entitlement to compensation for loss of events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
office following a takeover or contract termination are given in the Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or Directors Remuneration Report.
accounting standards, the Directors do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, Authority to purchase and allot own shares whether as a result of new information, future developments At the 2018 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a to purchase up to 10% of its own shares and to allot shares up to profit forecast.
an aggregate nominal amount of 27,275.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under this authority during the year.
Group results and dividends The Group profit for the year attributable to equity holders of Significant shareholdings the parent amounted to 201.1m 2017: 42.7m.
In 2017, the At 30 September 2018, the Company had received notifications Board approved a new, progressive dividend policy with an from the following shareholders of their direct or indirect increase in the dividend pay-out ratio from approximately 33% shareholding of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital.
to approximately 40% of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
This information is disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance The Board is able to recommend an increased final dividend of and Transparency Rules and in response to disclosures requested 22.30p per ordinary share 2017: 21.80p, payable on Thursday by the Company.
No notifications have been disclosed to the 14 February 2019 to shareholders on the register on Friday Company in accordance with DTR 5 during the period 1 October 30 November 2018.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2018 to 21 November 2018.
10.20p per ordinary share 2017: 8.80p, which was declared on 17 May 2018, brings the total dividend for the year to 32.50p per Nature of Number of % of voting ordinary share 2017: 30.60p.
Name of holder holding shares rights DMGZ Limited Direct 53,546,470 49.04 Share capital Standard Life Aberdeen plc Indirect 5,974,019 5.47 The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares Woodford Investment of 0.25p each.
At 30 September 2018 there were 109,180,729 Management Direct 5,897,334 5.40 ordinary shares in issue and fully paid.
During the year, 79,121 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2017: 35,425 ordinary shares Heronbridge Investment with an aggregate nominal value of 198 2017: 88 were Management LLP Indirect 5,283,820 4.84 issued following the exercise of share options granted under the Relationship deed Companys share incentive schemes for a cash consideration of The Company and DMGT, the parent company of DMGZ Limited, 0.64m 2017: 0.3m.
Details of the Companys share capital are entered into a revised relationship deed on 8 December 2016 given in note 23 to the Groups Financial Statements.
which supersedes the agreement entered into on 16 July 2014 in Employee Share Trust accordance with the Listing Rules and have acted in accordance The Executive Directors of the Company together with other with its terms since execution.
employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries of the Euromoney Employee Share Trust and Euromoney ESOP Trust and, as such, are deemed to be interested in any ordinary shares held by the trust.
At 30 September 2018, the trusts shareholding totalled 1,715,551 shares representing 1.52% of the Companys called-up ordinary share capital.
There have been no awards transferred between 30 September 2018 and the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Governance Directors Report continued Employees Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting The competence of employees is strengthened through a robust The Group participates in a carbon footprint analysis completed recruitment process along with training and development by ICF International.
This exercise has been undertaken every programmes.
The conduct of employees is an essential part of year since 2007 using the widely recognised GHG protocol the Companys control environment.
The high ethical standards methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and the expected are communicated by management and through World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The Directors the employee handbook which is provided to all employees.
are committed to reducing the Groups absolute carbon emissions The employee handbook includes specific policies on matters and managing its carbon footprint.
such as the use of the Groups information technology resources, data protection policy, the UK Bribery Act, and disciplinary Greenhouse emission statement and grievance procedures.
The Group operates an intranet The following emissions have been calculated according to the page which is used to communicate with employees and Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting provide guidance and assistance on day-to-day matters facing Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to fulfil employees.
The Group has a Speak-Up policy that is supported the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and by an externally managed Speak-Up hotline and web platform.
emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors The speak-up policy is updated when necessary and is reviewed for Company Reporting 2018.
The carbon footprint is expressed in by the Audit and Risk Committees.
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The Companys footprint The Company actively encourages employees to become involved covers emissions from its global operations and the following emission in the financial performance of our business through a variety of sources: Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, business share and bonus schemes.
travel and outsourced delivery activities.
Human rights and health and safety requirements Assessment parameters The Group is committed to the health and safety and the human Baseline year 2016 rights of its employees and communities in which it operates.
Consolidation approach Operational control Health and safety issues are monitored to ensure compliance with Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or all local health and safety regulations.
External health and safety under operational control advisors are available where appropriate.
Consistency with the The only variation is that leased Disabled employees FinancialStatements properties, under operational control, It is the Groups policy: to give full and fair consideration to are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all applications for employment from people who are disabled: to scope 3 emissions are off-balance sheet continue, wherever possible, the employment of, and to arrange emissions appropriate training for, employees who become disabled: and Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol environmental to provide opportunities for the career development, training and reporting guidelines promotion of disabled employees.
Intensity ratio Emissions per m of revenue Political donations Greenhouse gas emission source No political donations were made during the year 2017: nil.
2018 2017 tCO e tCO e 2 2 Post balance sheet events tCO e m tCO e m 2 2 Events arising after 30 September 2018 are set out in note 30 to the Scope 1: Combustion Groups Financial Statements.
of fuel and operation of facilities 700 1.8 700 1.8 Going concern Scope 2: Electricity, Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters heat, steam and cooling discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Directors purchased for own use 1,300 3.3 1,800 4.7 consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing this Annual Report and Accounts.
Total scope 1 and 2 2,000 5.1 2,500 6.5 Additional disclosures Scope 3: Business travel Additional information that is relevant to this report, and which is and outsourced activities 5,700 14.6 5,300 13.7 incorporated by reference into this report, including information required in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Total emissions 7,700 19.7 7,800 20.2 Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Corporate Governance Report pages 42 to 48 Auditor Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is Related party transactions note 29 no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is Waivers of dividends page 92 unaware, and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys statutory auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
76 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the The Companys AGM will be held at the Companys registered requirements of the Code, all serving Directors, with the exception office at 8 Bouverie Street, London, EC4Y 8AX on 1 February 2019 of Andrew Ballingal, offer themselves for election or re-election at 9.30 a. m. A separate circular comprising the Notice of Meeting, at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, in accordance with the together with explanatory notes, accompanies this Annual Report Code, before the election or re-election of a Non-Executive and Accounts.
Director, the Chairman is required to confirm to shareholders that, following formal performance evaluation, the Non-Executive Directors Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates Directors and Directors interests commitment to the role.
The membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors are given on pages 40 and 41 of the Corporate Directors indemnities Governance Report.
The Directors serving on the Board of the A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Company during the year were as follows: Companys Articles of Association and section 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company to each of its Directors.
Under the provisions of QTPI the Company Date appointed in the Date resigned in the year Director year if applicable if applicable undertakes to indemnify each Director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay Jan Babiak 1 December 2017 Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to Andrew Ballingal the Company if the Director is found guilty or, in an action brought Kevin Beatty 21 November 2017 by the Company, judgment is given against the Director.
John Botts 1 February 2018 On behalf of the Board Tim Collier 21 November 2017 Colin Day 5 March 2018 Tristan Hillgarth Colin Jones 15 June 2018 Imogen Joss 10 November 2017 Tim Bratton Wendy Pallot 16 August 2018 General Counsel & Company Secretary David Pritchard Andrew Rashbass 21 November 2018 The Viscount Rothermere 21 November 2017 Sir Patrick Sergeant 16 May 2018 Lorna Tilbian 1 January 2018 Paul Zwillenberg 21 November 2017 Details of the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company and of options held by the Directors to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 74.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Companys Articles of Association give power to the Board to appoint Directors from time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights of shareholders to remove a Director by ordinary resolution, the Board may also remove a Director where 75% of the Board gives written notice to such a Director.
The Articles of Association themselves may be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Governance Directors Report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Financial Directors confirmations Statements Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report pages 40 and 41 in the Annual Report and Accounts confirm that, and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law to the best of their knowledge: and regulation.
the Companys Financial Statements, which have been Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, adopted by the European Union and Company Financial and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, law.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the profit and cash flows of the Group and Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company review of the development and performance of the business and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that and the position of the Group and Company, together with a period.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces required to: On behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group Financial Statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed for the Company Financial Statements, Wendy Pallot subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Chief Financial Officer the Financial Statements 21 November 2018 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
78 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
