Annual report & accounts 2018 FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS How would you summarise the development of EVRAZ vanadium What were the main reasons for Russian economy growth issues in business in 2018, as well as its fit into the Groups overall strategy 2018 and for underperformance of steel demand, in particular?
In 2018, several factors negatively affected steel consumption in The vanadium business development was strongly affected by product Russia.
First, investment inflows into the Russian economy were lower prices, which surged from US$16 per kg FeV at the start of 2016 than expected.
Second, over the summer, when the football World Cup to peak at around US$120 per kg FeV in Q3 2018 amid a gradually took place, construction work in major Russian cities was suspended.
On the one hand, the deficit has been driven by supply limitations, including the closure of EVRAZ Highveld However, despite the overall market stagnation, EVRAZ domestic steel in 2015 and the imposition of environmental restrictions in China, product sales climbed by 3% to 4.2 million tonnes in 2018, driven by which together have reduced global vanadium production by 4 kmtV.
growing demand for several key products in the Groups portfolio.
For While new capacity launches are expected to add roughly 25 kmtV to example, railcar wheel consumption in Russia climbed by 29% due to global supply, this will not happen until 2022, when major Australian the ongoing major replacement cycle, boosting EVRAZ sales by roughly projects will be finalised.
On the other hand, demand for vanadium 40 thousand tonnes.
Another example is the beams market, where products could grow by some 5 kmtV 5-6% of global demand due despite the decline in demand for this product in Russia, the Groups to Chinas new high-strength rebar standard, which was approved sales increased by around 40 thousand tonnes, driven by EVRAZ last year and raised the use of vanadium by 0.03 kgV per tonne for efforts to further improve availability, logistics and shipment terms.
200 million tonnes of rebar production.
While vanadium prices settled at around US$70 per kg FeV by the end of 2018, this price level is still significantly higher than the historical average and prices are expected to remain somewhat elevated in the near future.
What is the rationale behind the Groups new investments in Russian steel assets?
The positive market dynamics in 2018 led to a strong financial performance by the vanadium business in the reporting period.
The key rationale behind EVRAZ new investment programme is the The Group believes that its vanadium assets will also be able to Groups aim to ensure profitability and achieve more stable long-term generate strong results on a longer-term horizon due to the structural development of its major assets.
One way to reach this goal is to competitive advantages of the business.
The vanadium-rich iron ore increase sales on the domestic market, where demand is more robust, mined at EVRAZ KGOK and the proprietary steelmaking technology being protected from negative global economic trends such as trade used at EVRAZ NTMK combine for one of lowest vanadium production protectionism and tariffs.
This will also provide significant savings on costs in the world.
Another way to do this is to increase the share of high valueadded products in EVRAZ portfolio, as they are expected to have higher In future, the Group plans to achieve a higher level of vertical and more stable margins in the long term.
integration in the vanadium business and increase vanadium recovery throughout the production chain, from iron ore processing to The flat rolling and casting facility at EVRAZ ZSMK with the capacity of ferrovanadium production.
2.5 million tonnes per annum will substitute slabs and billets that are currently exported.
The spread for hot-rolled coil produced at this facility is expected to be around US$90 per tonne and should be less volatile in the long term.
Similar changes will take place at EVRAZ NTMK, where the new rail and beam mill will help to replace semi-finished steel products for 230 thousand tonnes of beams and 50 thousand tonnes of sheet piles.
As a result, plants in Russia will be able to achieve a stronger and more stable financial performance.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information What was the impact of the additional import tariffs, quotas and What dividend payouts can EVRAZ shareholders expect in the duties imposed by the United States and Canada on EVRAZ North future?
America operations in 2018 and what effect is expected from them in 2019?
In 2018, the Group established a new dividend policy envisaging a minimum payout of US$300 million per annum.
The total amount of In 2018, EVRAZ North America operations faced tightening U. S. trade dividends paid in 2018 reached US$1.6 billion, which is around five times policy and increased trade barriers.
Trade measures included tariffs on higher than the minimum.
In 2018, net debt was close to the desired level steel products imported into the United States Section 232 tariffs, U. S. and the financial performance was strong, which led to a significant surge preliminary antidumping duties on imports of large diameter welded in the dividend payout.
pipe from Canada, and retaliatory tariffs imposed by the government of Canada on steel imported from the United States.
Future dividend payouts will depend primarily on three parameters: debt, CAPEX targets and EBITDA level.
In the medium term, EVRAZ will most While EVRAZ North America has worked to minimise tariff exposure, likely use the majority of the cash generated in excess of the needs for these policies have posed challenges and created increased costs in the the established CAPEX programme to pay dividends.
However, the payout segments cross-border markets in the United States and Canada.
might be lower if the markets experience a significant price correction that substantially weakens the Groups EBITDA.
In that case, EVRAZ will Tariffs on imported slab had a negative impact on EVRAZ Portlands prioritise cash management efforts and will seek to keep its net debt flat steel operations.
For tubular operations in Canada, trade actions EBITDA ratio below 2.0.
In a stress-case scenario, the Group might even presented challenges for cross border business with the United States.
consider a reduction in capital expenditures.
Although oil country tubular goods are primarily sold in Canada, largediameter and small-diameter line pipe primarily produced in Canada had significant volumes sold into the United States.
Likewise exports from Portland to Canada were reduced significantly due to retaliatory tariffs As ESG related matters is becoming increasingly important, does imposed by Canada.
The Group has a more positive outlook for 2019 as EVRAZ have any plans to enhance its disclosure of these aspects?
its large diameter pipe order book for the year has more sales into the Canadian market.
The Board and the Management acknowledge the increasing importance of ESG related matters and put a lot of efforts to enhance the EVRAZ work stream in these aspects.
EVRAZ is constantly improving the corporate social responsibility section of its Annual report, which What are the risks if the US impose sanctions on EVRAZ or its key provides an overview of the Groups policies and performance in key shareholders?
areas, including human rights, health and safety, the environment, human capital management and community engagement, as well as an EVRAZ considers the probability of sanctions on its business and outline of how EVRAZ intends to further improve its performance in the shareholders to be quite low.
However, the Group has undertaken years ahead.
several precautionary measures in terms of cash management, shareholder ownership structure and contract negotiations that Moreover, EVRAZ intends to prepare and publish its first Sustainability should help to minimise the potential impact on EVRAZ business in Report in the first half of 2019 in order to increase the disclosure case any sanctions are imposed.
At EVRAZ, we take immense pride in our leading positions in construction steel and coking coal in Russia.
Globally, we are first in rails and second in vanadium.
