Annual report & accounts 2018 Directors report INTRODUCTION In accordance with section 415 of the section of this report, together with The Company was incorporated Companies Act 2006, the Directors the sections of the annual report under the name EVRAZ plc as a of EVRAZ plc present their report to incorporated by reference.
As permitted public company limited by shares on shareholders for the financial year by legislation, some of the matters 23 September 2011 under registered ended 31 December 2018, which they normally included in the Directors number 7784342.
EVRAZ plc listed are required to produce by applicable Report have instead been included in on the London Stock Exchange in UK company law.
The Directors Report other sections of the annual report, as November 2011 and is a member of comprises the Directors Report indicated below.
Dividends The strength of the underlying cash flow generation and continuing success with deleveraging have allowed the Company to continue to pay dividends in line with its dividend policy.
Please see page 28 for details.
The Company paid an interim dividend of US$0.13 per ordinary share, totalling US$187.6 million, on 22 June 2018 to shareholders on the register as of 8 June 2018.
The Company paid a second interim dividend of US$0.40 per share, totalling US$577.34 million, on 6 September 2018 to shareholders on the register as of 17 August 2018.
The Company paid a third interim dividend of US$0.25 per share, totalling US$360.8 million, on 21 December 2018 to shareholders on the register as of 23 November 2018.
The Board of Directors have declared an interim dividend of US$0.40 per share, totalling US$577.3 million, to be paid on 29 March 2019 to shareholders on the register as of 8 March 2019.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including details on the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year.
As of 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares, of which 63,176,475 shares are held in Treasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company is 1,443,350,819.
On 10 July 2018, following approval from the Companys shareholders at a general meeting and subsequent confirmation by the High Court of England and Wales, the nominal value of each ordinary share in the Company was reduced from US$1.00 per share to US$0.05 per share.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the ordinary shares.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting preference shares or subscriber shares of the Company in issue.
Authority to Details of the Companys authority to purchase its own shares, which will be sought at the Companys forthcoming annual general purchase own meeting AGM, will be set out in the notice of meeting for that AGM.
shares and transfer On 4 May 2018, the Company transferred 11,297,476 ordinary shares out of treasury to the Companys Employee Share Trust, which of treasury shares represented 0.74% of the Companys issued share capital.
to Companys Details are set out in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee Share Trust Directors Biographies of the directors who served on the Board during the year are provided in the Governance section on pages 100103.
Directors The Board has the power at any time to elect any person to be a director, but the number of directors must not exceed the maximum appointment and number fixed by the Companys Articles of Association.
re-election Any person so appointed by the directors will retire at the next AGM and then be eligible for election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
For additional information about directors appointment and resignation, see the Corporate Governance Report on page 124.
All of the continuing directors will stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM to be held on 18 June 2019.
Directors interests Information on share ownership by directors can be found in this Report and in the Remuneration Report on page 125.
Directors As at the date of this report, the Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to each of its directors against any liability indemnities and that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act.
In addition, director and officer directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have been and continue to be covered by director and officer liability liability insurance insurance.
Powers of directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association contain specific provisions concerning the Companys power to borrow money and provide the power to make purchases of any of its own shares.
The directors have the authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company.
Further details of the proposed authorities are set out in the Notice of the AGM.
Major interests in Notifiable major share interests of which the Company has been made aware are set out in this Directors Report.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Research and EVRAZ is constantly engaged in process and product innovation.
EVRAZ research and development centres located at the Companys development production sites improve and develop high-quality steel products to better meet customers needs and to ensure that the Company remains competitive in the global and local markets.
For examples of the Companys efforts in research and development in different operations, please refer to the Business Review on pages 4269.
Sustainable The Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report focuses on the health and safety, environmental and employment development performance of the Companys operations, and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of sustainable development and development of community relations programmes.
Details of the Companys policies and performance are provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 7297.
Payments to EVRAZ published its 2017 report on payments to governments in June 2018.
The report provides citizens, authorities and governments independent users with information on payments made to governments where the Company conducts its extractive activities.
The report is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Instrument 2014 Report on payments to governments, issued by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
The report is available on the Companys website at www.
Political donations No political contributions were made in 2018.
Greenhouse gas In 2018, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2013, EVRAZ emissions undertook to assess full emissions of greenhouse gases GHGs from facilities under its control.
Details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 78.
Employees Information regarding the Companys employees can be found in the Our People section on pages 8489.
Overseas branches EVRAZ does not have any branches.
A full list of the Groups controlled subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 34 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial risk Information regarding the financial risk management and internal control processes and policies, as well as details of hedging management policy and exposure to the risks associated with financial instruments, can be found in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial and financial Statements, the Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Internal Control section on pages 106111, and the Financial instruments Review on pages 3033.
Going concern The financial position and performance of the Group and its cash flows are set out in the Financial Review section of the report on pages 3033.
Based on the currently available facts and circumstances, the directors and management have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
More details are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 153.
Auditor The Audit Committee conducted a tender for the external audit of the Group in July 2016.
Ernst & Young LLP were selected to undertake the audits for the financial years ended December 2017 and 2018 subject to shareholder approval at the respective AGM.
The Board has agreed that subject to satisfactory commercial terms being agreed with Ernst & Young LLP, no re-tender will take place until the conclusion of the 2020 financial year.
A decision on whether to re-tender will be taken thereafter.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Future Information on the Group and its subsidiaries future developments is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 639. developments Events since the The major events after 31 December 2018 are disclosed in Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 236. reporting date Annual general The 2019 AGM will be held on 18 June 2019 in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to put questions to the meeting AGM Board, including the chairmen of the Board committees.
Full details of the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained in the Notice of the AGM, which will be distributed at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website at www.
Electronic A copy of the 2018 annual report, the Notice of the AGM and other corporate publications, reports and announcements are available communications on the Companys website at the following links: http: www.
com investors information general meeting http: www.
com investors annual reports Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website instead of receiving paper copies.
Corporate The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance governance statement set out in a companys Directors Report.
statement In common with many companies, EVRAZ has an existing practice of issuing, within its annual report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirement of DTR 7.2 is located in the EVRAZ Corporate Governance Report and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
129 Annual report & accounts 2018 MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS 1 The Companys issued share capital as of 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019 was 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares, of which 63,176,475 shares are held in Treasury.
As of 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the Companys share capital were disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
Number of ordinary shares % of voting rights 2 Greenleas International Holdings Ltd. 440,528,064 30.52 3 Abiglaze Ltd 298,625,541 20.69 4 Crosland Global Limited 149,118,167 10.33 5 Kadre Enterprises Ltd 83,751,827 5.80 1 The number of shares differs from the figure in the Financial statements by the amount of shares held in Trust.
2 The Company understands that Roman Abramovich has an indirect economic interest in the 440,528,064 shares held by Greenleas International Holdings Ltd. 3 The Company understands that Alexander Abramov has an indirect economic interest in the 298,625,541 shares held by Abiglaze Ltd. 4 The Company understands that Alexander Frolov has an indirect economic interest in the 149,118,167 shares held by Crosland Global Limited.
5 Includes shares held by Gennady Kozovoy, Kadres shareholder, both indirectly through Kadre and directly.
The number of shares is as per TR-1 Form: Notification of major interest in shares dated 6 February 2013.
The Company is aware of the following individuals who each have a beneficial interest in three percent or more of EVRAZ plcs issued share capital in each case, except for Gennady Kozovoy, held indirectly as of 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019: Number of ordinary shares % of voting rights Roman Abramovich 440,528,064 30.52 Alexander Abramov 298,625,541 20.69 Alexander Frolov 149,118,167 10.33 Gennady Kozovoy 83,751,827 5.80 LISTING RULE DISCLOSURES For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Interest capitalised Waiver of future emoluments Contract of significance in which Shareholder waiver of future Note 9 to the Consolidated by a director a director is interested dividends Financial Statements None None None Publication of unaudited financial Non pre-emptive issues of equity Contracts of significance Agreements with controlling information for cash with a controlling shareholder shareholder Not applicable None Relationship Agreement section Relationship Agreement section on page 131 below Detail of long-term incentive Non pre-emptive issues of equity schemes for cash in relation to major Provision of services Note 21 to the Consolidated subsidiary undertakings by a controlling shareholder Financial Statements, Remuneration None None Report Parent participation in a placing Shareholder waiver of dividends Waiver of emoluments by a director by a listed subsidiary None None None 130 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information SIGNIFICANT to circumvent the proper application or breach any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreements, and will of the Listing Rules: CONTRACTUAL Transactions, relationships and agreements abstain from voting on, and will procure that the Controlling Shareholder Directors abstain between the Company and or its subsidiaries ARRANGEMENTS on the one hand and the Controlling from voting on, any resolution to approve a transaction with a related party as defined Shareholders shall be entered into and conducted on arms length terms in the Listing Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders or any member of the respective Relationship agreements and on a normal commercial basis, unless otherwise agreed by a committee comprising Controlling Shareholder group: In any matter that, in the opinion In the period between the end of the 2018 the non-executive directors of the Company financial year and the date of this report, whom the Board considers to be independent of an independent director, gives rise to a potential conflict of interest between the Company has entered into relationship in accordance with the UK Corporate agreements the Relationship Agreements Governance Code the Independent the Company and or any of its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Shareholder with each of Greenleas International Holdings Committee : Ltd. Abiglaze Ltd and Crosland Global The Controlling Shareholders shall, insofar Directors, the Controlling Shareholders or any member of the respective Controlling Limited the Controlling Shareholders that as it is legally able to do so, exercise regulate the ongoing relationship between their powers, and shall procure that each Shareholder group on the other, such matter must be approved at a duly convened meeting the Controlling Shareholders and the Company.
member of the respective Controlling This ensures that the Company is in compliance Shareholder group does the same, so that of the Independent Committee or in writing by a majority of the Independent Committee: with the provisions of the Listing Rules the Company is managed in accordance and capable of carrying on its business with the principles of good governance set For so long as Greenleas International Holdings Ltd. and its affiliates holds independently of the Controlling Shareholders, out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, and ensures that any transactions save as agreed in writing by a majority in aggregate an interest of 25% or more in the Company, Greenleas International and relationships between the Company of the Independent Committee: and the Controlling Shareholders are at arms The Controlling Shareholders will, and will Holdings Ltd. undertakes that it will not become, and will use its reasonable length and on normal commercial terms.
These procure as far as is reasonably possible that Relationship Agreements were last amended each member of the respective Controlling endeavours to procure that no other member Shareholder group will, treat as confidential of its group becomes, involved in any and restated or, in the case of Abiglaze Ltd, first entered into in January 2019 reflecting changes all information subject to certain exceptions competing business subject to certain acquired relating to the Company and its exceptions in Russia, Ukraine or the CIS in the Companys shareholder structure that took place in December 2018. subsidiaries: without giving the Company the opportunity The provision of, access to and use to participate in the relevant competing The Relationship Agreements terminate if of information pursuant to the Relationship business: Agreements is governed by applicable laws For so long as Abiglaze Ltd and Crosland the Controlling Shareholders cease to own or control directly or indirectly in aggregate relating to insider information, including, Global Limited and their respective affiliates without limitation, the Disclosure Guidance hold in aggregate an interest of 25% or more at least 30% of the issued ordinary shares in the Company or at least 30% of the aggregate and Transparency Rules: in the Company, Abiglaze Ltd and Crosland The Controlling Shareholders shall Global Ltd undertake that they will voting rights in the Company.
not, and shall procure, insofar as they not become, and will use their reasonable are legally able to do so, that each member endeavours to procure that no other member Under the Relationship Agreements, the Controlling Shareholders and the Company of the respective Controlling Shareholder of the respective Controlling Shareholder group shall not, take any action that precludes group becomes, involved in any competing agree that: The Controlling Shareholders have the right or inhibits the Company and or any of its business subject to certain exceptions subsidiaries from carrying on its business in Russia, Ukraine or the CIS without giving to appoint the maximum number of nonexecutive directors that may be appointed independently of the Controlling Shareholders the Company the opportunity to participate or any member of the respective Controlling in the relevant competing business.
while ensuring that the composition of the Board remains compliant with the UK Shareholder group: The quorum for any Board meeting The Board is satisfied that the Company Corporate Governance Code for so long as the Controlling Shareholders hold of the Company shall be three, of which is capable of carrying on its business at least one must be a Shareholder Director independently of the Controlling Shareholders in aggregate an interest of 30% or more of the Company or holds 30% or more appointed by Greenleas International Holdings and that the Board makes its decisions Ltd. at least one must be a Shareholder in a manner consistent with its duties of the aggregate voting rights in the Company with each appointee being a Shareholder Director appointed by Abiglaze Ltd and or to the Company and stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
Crosland Global Limited and at least one must Director: The Controlling Shareholders and their be a non-executive director whom the Board considers to be independent in accordance associates shall not take any action that would Other agreements have the effect of preventing the Company with the UK Corporate Governance Code: The Controlling Shareholders shall from complying with its obligations The change of control provisions contained under the Companies Act, the Listing not, and shall procure, insofar as they in several loan agreements with a total principal are legally able to do so, that each member Rules and the Disclosure Guidance amount of US$611 million outstanding and Transparency Rules: of the respective Controlling Shareholder as of 31 December 2018 specify that if group shall not, exercise any of their voting Neither the Controlling Shareholders nor any a change of control occurs, each lender of their associates will propose or procure or other rights and powers to procure any under these agreements has a right to cancel amendment to the Memorandum and Articles the proposal of any shareholder resolution their commitments and request prepayment that is intended or appears to be intended that would be inconsistent with, undermine of their portion of the respective loans.
131 Annual report & accounts 2018 ARTICLES OF shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right ASSOCIATION in relation to general meetings if any sum due from him or her to the Company in respect The Companys Articles of Association were of that share remains unpaid.
adopted with effect from June 2012 and contain, among others, provisions on the rights The trustee of the Companys Employee and obligations attaching to the Companys Share Trust is entitled, under the terms shares, including the redeemable non-voting of the trust deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect preference shares and the subscriber shares.
of the shares held on trust.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
TRANSFER OF SHARES The Companys Articles provide that transfers SHARE RIGHTS of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the transferor Without prejudice to any rights attached to any and, except in the case of fully paid shares, existing shares, the Company may issue shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor with rights or restrictions as determined by either shall remain the holder of the shares concerned the Company by ordinary resolution or, if until the name of the transferee is entered the Company passes a resolution, the directors.
in the Register of Members in respect of those The Company may also issue shares that shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares are, or are liable to be, redeemed at the option may be effected by means of CREST unless of the Company or the holder and the directors the CREST Regulations provide otherwise.
may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any such shares.
The directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
VOTING RIGHTS There are no other restrictions on voting rights AUDIT INFORMATION or transfers of shares in the Articles other than those described in these paragraphs.
Each of the Directors who were members Details of deadlines for exercising voting of the Board at the date of the approval rights and proxy appointment will be set out of this report confirms that: in the Notice of the 2019 AGM.
So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which At a general meeting, subject to any special the Companys auditors are unaware: rights or restrictions attached to any class He or she has taken all the reasonable of shares on a poll, every member present steps that he or she ought to have taken in person or by proxy has one vote for every as a Director to make him or herself share that he or she holds.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors A proxy is not entitled to vote where the member are aware of the information.
appointing the proxy would not have been entitled to vote on the resolution had The confirmation is given and should be he or she been present in person.
Unless interpreted in accordance with the provisions the directors decide otherwise, no member of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Alexander The EVRAZ Directors Report has been Frolov prepared in accordance with applicable UK Chief Executive Officer company law and was approved by the Board EVRAZ plc on 27 February 2019.
By the order of the Board 27 February 2019 132 www.
