Experian plc 20 Strategic report Our strategy Focused on a changing world We aim to be a trusted partner for consumers, businesses and other organisations, helping them to achieve their goals by providing them with the best tools to manage credit risk and protect against fraud.
We do this by combining data with analytics and software.
Our strategic ambition is to grow our presence across a number of industry segments and geographies by investing in these foundations.
Strategic planning Preliminary process steps March to May Management conference June Board Exploration review Review Evaluate progress January Review and approval from prior year of global strategy Group Identify top strategic Operating Final budget approval issues Committee March review Generate new growth meeting Financial Internal and external ideas and concepts planning and June communications prioritisation Alignment between business leaders October to Alignment November Board Alignment around mid-year Planning top priorities review Internal and external Strategic and financial July market drivers Internal assessment of options Regional priorities review Three-year financial Options for strategic September plan and budgets investment November to January Strategic Five-year strategic plans planning July to August Including two days of strategy presentations.
Strategic report 21 Strategic imperatives In uential market drivers Purpose Proliferation of data and analytics Data lies at the heart of our business.
We seek to build the most complete and Population and wealth accurate data les in the market.
We will continue to do this through organic investment in new sources of data, through Broaden and deepen acquisition, through minority investments our data assets and also by striking partnerships with other data owners.
Proliferation of data and analytics As data continues to proliferate, demand is growing to analyse and make decisions Automation and technology based on the data.
We plan to extend our leading market position by investing in Extend our lead systems which enable our clients to assess data in real time, build their own models, in analytics and conduct scenario analysis and make software solutions predictions based on the analysis.
We are also developing platforms which enable clients to combine datasets from multiple sources, so they can examine correlations between datasets, and to make it easy for our clients to visualise and manipulate the data.
Client digital norms We seek to combine capabilities from across our business.
We aim to connect diff erent Proliferation of data and analytics data sources, embed data and analytics Population and wealth within our product set and ensure our Exploit the breadth products are inter-operable.
This will allow Automation and technology us to continue to create more innovative of our capabilities Regulatory environment products and better service our clients, One Experian while also enhancing our own effi ciency.
Automation and technology Experian has a long and proud history of innovation and over recent years we have Proliferation of data and analytics invested to substantially increase the pace at which we bring new capabilities to market.
Accelerate the pace We are transforming our technology, moving to open systems and cloud computing, with of innovation the goal of continuing to enhance our speed, accuracy and exibility in handling data and improving our time to market.
Proliferation of data and analytics As the uses of data grow, opportunities open up for Experian in new industry segments.
Population and wealth Our data and analytics are often applicable to a wide range of clients and are often Scale in targeted scalable across diff erent markets.
By investing to expand into new industries and verticals and geographies we aim to extend our reach and geographies drive the next phase of growth.
Consumer digital behaviours Our vision is to become consumers first choice for managing their nances and Population and wealth protecting their identity across mobile and Regulatory environment digital channels in several of our markets.
Transform We plan to continue to transform and enhance the products, services and engagement with features, based on consumer needs.
consumers We also aim to attract more consumers to our sites by exploiting the strength of our brand and by establishing relationships directly with consumers.
For more on In uential market drivers see page 00 For more on in uential market drivers see page 12 Experian plc 22 Strategic report Our strategy continued What we have done this year Weve made signi cant progress implementing our strategy and investing back into the business.
Ascend sandbox Clarity acquisition IdentityWorks This year, we launched our second-generation In October 2017, we acquired Clarity Services, This year we launched our new identity analytical sandbox in North America called Inc. the market leader in non-traditional credit protection service, IdentityWorks, in North Experian Ascend.
Ascend allows clients to have reporting in the USA.
In an increasingly digitised world, real-time access to vast datasets so they can from sources such as low-income lenders, IdentityWorks gives consumers the tools build their own custom models, test lending FinTech and rent-to-own companies.
The to protect themselves against identity theft, criteria, perform trend analysis and make acquisition substantially expands our data for example, included in the off er is a free forecasts.
For example, a bank may wish coverage in our largest market, adding data dark web scan.
By March 2018, the paid to model how best to target a credit card on over 60 million thinle consumers to our membership base for IdentityWorks was campaign in a certain locality.
It has added data on consumers almost 200,000 consumers.
what used to take clients weeks or months, who were previously largely invisible to For more information can now take minutes.
Since launch we have traditional lenders because they had limited see page 36 signed contracts with several of our major or no credit history.
strategic financial services accounts and we For more information Text for Credit plan to roll the sandbox out to a wider range of see page 29 clients in North America over the coming year and to introduce it in other Experian regions.
Serasa Consumidor membership in Text for Credit is an award winning innovation For more information Brazil and the Serasa Truck which had its genesis in our data labs.
This see page 19 product uses device identi cation data and couples it with identity and credit information.
PowerCurve build-out In September, we introduced the Serasa Truck It delivers real-time off ers of credit to a mobile as part of a marketing campaign to raise device.
This allows consumers to apply for awareness of Serasa to promote financial credit when they visit a retail outlet simply At the end of the last financial year, we inclusion in the wider population and the by sending a text message.
It simpli es the launched a new module to extend our Serasa free score.
This has helped to drive process of applying for credit, while also agship credit risk management suite a signi cant increase in members for free ensuring that the retailer adheres to its PowerCurve, called PowerCurve Collections.
services in Brazil, Serasa Consumidor, credit risk and fraud prevention policies.
The new module helps clients to manage which more than doubled over the year For more information risk when credit quality starts to deteriorate.
from 11 million to over 22 million, or more see page 41 For example, they can formulate strategies than 10% of the entire population of Brazil.
which help them to reduce the cost of For more information collection while also delivering a positive see page 33 consumer experience.
We have signed key clients across several regions, contributing to strong growth in Decision Analytics.
For more information see page 24 Key to our strategy: Broaden and deepen our data assets Extend our lead in analytics and software solutions Exploit the breadth of our capabilities One Experian Accelerate the pace of innovation Scale in targeted verticals and geographies Transform engagement with consumers Strategic report 23 Future plans We continue to invest in the foundations that underpin our success.
Increase coverage of Scaling our fraud prevention Extend consumer services underbanked consumers and detection platform in other key markets We are looking at ways of using new We will continue to develop and invest We have plans to develop our nascent datasets to grow our coverage of the in the roll-out of CrossCore, our fraud services for consumers in Latin America, underbanked.
For example, by partnering detection and prevention platform.
India, Australia and South East Asia.
with telecoms providers, we can generate We plan to add new partners and We are introducing credit comparison credit scores using mobile data, enabling products, developing new capabilities services in Brazil and we are evaluating credit assessments to be made in markets to detect fraud, such as biometric data, plans to roll out identity protection where access to credit history data is as well as machine-learning to deliver services in more markets.
This can also help to promote real-time fraud scores.
New innovations in analytics Digitise mortgage journey Continue to invest in and decisioning for consumers information security We are  SaaS We are developing plans to transform Information security will continue to be enabling the entirety of our PowerCurve the process of applying for a mortgage.
We will suite and will launch these services during Our goal is to turn a currently arduous, continue to invest in enhancing and the next year.
SaaS-enablement of this manual and paper-based process into hardening our information security platform will allow us to support smaller a smooth, quick, digital journey.
We will environment and in promoting a strong organisations with our decisioning accomplish this by applying technologies culture of cyber security awareness software since it will be easier, quicker such as account aggregation, application within Experian.
and more cost eff ective to install.
programming interfaces APIs and authentication services.
Experian plc 24 Strategic report The thing that really distinguished PowerCurve Collections for us was the roadmap.
The vision that Experian has, the arti cial intelligence and the machine-learning, combined with Experians know-how in collections systems, was the real diff erentiator for us.
Rob Holt Chief Credit and Collections Offi cer, NewDay Strategy in action: Making debt Extend our lead in analytics and software solutions Exploit the breadth of our capabilities collection about Accelerate the pace of innovation the customer with Experians PowerCurve Collections Debt collection is a stressful A single, uni ed system Taking the stress out of time for both customers and debt collection We designed PowerCurve Collections to businesses bring together the data, the decisions, Convenient online access for and the collections work ow into a single, customers gives back to customers There are lots of reasons that people uni ed system for a business.
And it has the feeling of control and builds their miss a debt repayment.
It could be that an online portal to help customers to trust with businesses as aggressive theyve simply forgotten to pay or maybe negotiate and resolve overdue payments collections tactics are eliminated.
they are experiencing financial hardship.
in a discreet and convenient way.
Knowing the diff erence is important for Bad debt costs for the business are businesses.
Because when a business Its the final piece of the PowerCurve reduced and the likelihood of cash has manual, unconnected processes, or credit decisioning suite that helps recovery is increased, while ensuring incomplete data and potentially only one businesses solve their credit problems outcomes are sustainable.
way to process delinquent debts then it right across the customer journey: from Better quality data and work ows makes for a frustrating and stressful nding and acquiring new customers, identify when a customer falls behind experience for their customers.
In this to knowing existing customers and now in their payments and enable a digital age people expect a business to through to managing customers with personalised approach for each know their circumstances and respond overdue repayments.
The capabilities customer talking to them at the right to their needs accordingly, especially across the PowerCurve suite are huge, time, with the right message, using in the case of financial diffi culty.
It can with some of our clients making 100 the right channel helping to improve add up to higher costs for the business million customer decisions every day customer retention and ensure and possibly a failure to comply with using our products.
vulnerable customers are dealt increasing regulation, while potentially with appropriately.
losing the value of the relationship between them and their clients.
The fair treatment of customers and transparency in the collections process allows businesses to meet regulatory demands easily and cost eff ectively.
