Experian plc 14 Strategic report Business model Unlocking the possibilities that data holds Our structure and markets How we help We live in a world increasingly We are a global group with 16,500 employees Organisations use our data and decisioning driven by data: its use is becoming serving consumers and clients from offi ces in tools in the various interactions they have with more pervasive.
Our largest markets are the USA, their customers.
We help them at the point data has the potential to transform the UK and Brazil.
During this year we provided they acquire customers for the first time and services to consumers and our clients across to manage their customer base over time.
lives and societies, and to create our four business activities Credit Services, Data can help them to decide which product, a better tomorrow for everyone.
Decision Analytics, Marketing Services and and on what terms, is best for a customer.
To do this, data needs to be Consumer Services.
We manage our business In this way they can make more informed understood, interpreted and the by region and the performance of these is set decisions to help them grow their business, out in the North America, Latin America, UK lend more responsibly and prevent identity knowledge it holds acted on.
and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Paci c sections fraud and crime.
Individuals use our data of this report.
and services to take control of their credit We unlock the possibilities that and access financial services, for example, Because of changes to the shape of our business data holds to help people and activities we are making changes to our business to help buy a home or a car, or pay for a segment reporting format for the next financial organisations solve their challenges childs education.
More details can be and realise their ambitions.
found in the Change to our reporting segments section on page 18.
What makes us diff erent similar problems quickly and more We embed innovation into our culture Integrated approach eff ectively.
Businesses can rely on our data through investment in our employees We take an integrated approach to working and analytics to help them expand into new and new technologies.
and providing solutions for our clients.
markets, reach new customers and transact We connect our people and our expertise Employees are empowered to create with international suppliers.
across our business activities, and we compelling new ideas: they collaborate integrate the best, most comprehensive data, across the business, broadening the diversity Unrivalled scale with advanced analytics, innovative decision of ideas available and incubate these at the work ows and cutting-edge technology.
Our scale allows us to invest in research, team level.
We then assess and fund the best This approach allows us to serve clients leverage the breadth and depth of our data ones at the Group level.
Innovation helps us better, create faster, more innovative and develop products centrally that can drive long-term business performance and products and joined-up solutions, and be deployed locally and multinationally.
will continue to be a key focus for us.
allows clients to access everything they This reduces costs, standardises products, need from one provider.
and improves time to market.
Our clients Robust nancials bene t from easier access to data, higher Our stable growth and high cash generation quality tools and exible propositions that Global reach allows us to invest in training, innovation can be integrated across their operations.
By operating from multiple countries and and technology, seize growth opportunities organising ourselves centrally, we support and make strategic acquisitions, generating Innovative culture and serve both local and global clients, sustainable returns and preserving value and share best practice, technology and Innovation allows us to develop new for our shareholders.
products to meet the changing needs and practices of consumers and our clients.
We take the lessons from helping consumers and clients in one market and disseminate those into other markets, helping them solve Strategic report 15 Our resources and relationships The data we hold is varied, for example from Our people Technology how an individual or business may have repaid We have a unique way of working we call Technology drives our business.
We invest in credit in the past, to whether a car has been it The Experian Way.
It informs how our technologies to bring new, innovative products in an accident, to eligibility for healthcare people act and behave, which shapes our to market so we can better serve our clients services in the USA, and to an individuals culture.
It celebrates delighting our clients, and consumers, and to make our operations preferences on how they like to be contacted.
transformative thinking to drive innovation, more effi cient.
We use it to deliver data to working collaboratively, and requires that each clients more rapidly, to help them conduct Security and every employee acts as a guardian for the analysis on the data and to automate protection of data.
We also place signi cant decision-making in their organisations.
As a trusted steward of this data, the security emphasis on driving a high-performance We also use it to run our data centres, as well and integrity of data handling are a top priority culture, as well as on drawing talent from as to provide standard programme interfaces for us.
We operate within a strict data security many backgrounds to ensure our population so clients and our own developers can easily and risk management framework which is diverse and re ective of the communities connect systems and diff erent datasets.
includes policies, processes and controls on we work across.
data use, as well as continuous monitoring and testing.
We continually assess our data Read more about our people Data on page 25 security strategy to help us anticipate new Data lies at the heart of our business.
We hold threats and to develop responses where we and manage large datasets which include need to.
credit history and repayment data on over Read more about our data one billion people and 145 million businesses.
on page 34 We invest to increase the breadth and depth of our data, as well as in the accuracy of data.
Value created for our stakeholders Our clients and Our communities Our people Our shareholders Our clients and consumers their customers We help people to access We recognise that our We invest in our business credit and other financial work carries great to grow our position in We gather and combine We unlock opportunities services, which they can responsibility and how we our chosen markets, while many sources of data, for millions of consumers, use to improve their lives.
work is as important as driving strong financial turning it into useful and for thousands of When businesses do what we do.
In this information through the small, medium, large better, they can employ ensure we listen to what way we aim to create use of analytics and and multinational more people.
When there our people have to say, long-term shareholder software this enables organisations, including: is a transparent ow of sustain a positive, value.
Indirectly our people and businesses Individuals data, economies can empowering culture and shareholders also bene t to act on the knowledge Families ourish.
Our communities do all we can to make as the value created for held within, and it plays bene t both directly and Experian a great place consumers, clients and an increasingly essential Financial institutions indirectly from this.
We encourage the wider community and role in the data and Hospital and physician employees to use their economy lters through credit economy.
See the Our people and practices in the USA corporate responsibility skills to do interesting to shareholders other Throughout this report see section for further Automotive dealers work, learn new skills and investments.
examples of how we are information and nanciers helping consumers and progress their careers.
See the Financial review businesses We also ensure our people for further information on Retailers the value created this year get recognition for great Telecommunications for shareholders performance and feel and utility providers nurtured and supported in Insurance companies their careers at Experian.
FinTech and media See the Our people and corporate responsibility Government and the section for further public sector information Experian plc 16 Strategic report Business model continued Our business activities We manage our business by geographic region, Decision Analytics however its easiest to understand what we do as For example, when a person is in How we help described by our four main business activities.
a store and sees something they We help our customers to lend would like to buy, our software eff ectively and to minimise the and analytics can help them to risk of fraud by developing apply for credit by text.
They advanced software and models to simply text a code to the number analyse data.
We also help our provided by the retailer.
We check clients to deliver the customer the persons credit status, their experiences that people expect.
ability to repay the loan and that We help them to lend eff ectively, the person is who they say they to detect and minimise fraud are, we apply the stores lending and to comply with legal criteria and then reply back to requirements.
We help them them within seconds.
We have identify new opportunities, automated and simpli ed a including more effi cient ways process for the business and to run their businesses, meet made applying for credit easier customer needs and nd better for the customer there are Credit Services ways to cross-sell their products.
fewer forms to ll in and no embarrassment for the Our services By providing unbiased How we help customer if they are declined.
information on customers we Because we know data so well, We help organisations lend help ensure that people are we are experts at creating and Our market share responsibly and protect treated more fairly when developing analytical and themselves and their customers We hold leading positions in applying for credit, and access decisioning tools that make the from risk.
From our 18 consumer our key markets, except for the to credit is widened across best use of the data attributes.
and 11 business information USA where Fair Isaac is the society.
Our credit bureaux Our industry experts and data bureaux, we provide millions of market leader.
enable millions of people and scientists work collaboratively credit reports every day, enabling businesses to get the loans with our clients, listening to them, lending decisions to be made Our revenue generation they need, at a rate they can identifying problems and then fairly, responsibly and quickly better aff ord.
models helping to nd the best solutions for people and businesses.
for their needs, using advanced Scores and checks are sold on Our market share technologies.
We can combine a transactional, volume-tiered Our services our own data with data from our basis.
Software and system sales In our key markets of the USA, We collect and sort data from clients and third parties, organise include implementation fees, the UK and Brazil we are the thousands of sources, primarily and analyse this data, and turn it recurring licence fees and number one or number on the credit a person or into meaningful information our transactional charges.
business has applied for in the customers can act on using our past and how they have repaid it.
Our competitors Our revenue generation We turn this information into a Include Fair Isaac, IBM, SAS and model credit report.
Primarily a transactional, These credit reports are used by volume-tiered basis, per credit organisations such as banks, report delivered.
automotive dealers, healthcare providers and retailers to help Our competitors calculate credit scores, make decisions about lending and the We regularly encounter three terms on which to lend.
They can main competitors in our key quickly assess whether a loan markets: Equifax, TransUnion that a customer has applied for and Dun & Bradstreet.
is suitable for them and whether they can aff ord to repay it.
Because of changes to the shape of our business activities we are changing our business segment reporting format for the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
More details can be found in the Change to our reporting segments section on page 18.
Strategic report 17 Consumer Services Identity protection How we help For our clients, we constantly We help people to take control of monitor the information in their their credit so they can better credit reports for suspected manage their financial position, fraud patterns.
We also protect and we help them to compare peoples identities by scouring credit off ers so they can nd the internet in real time, off ers which are most relevant monitoring websites, blogs and to them.
We also help them to chatrooms to identify the illegal protect themselves from identity trading of personal information, theft and fraud.
so we can notify people to take immediate action.
If people do Our services become victims of fraud, we are Financial education Marketing Services on hand to help working with Being able to access their them to contact banks and Experian credit report and organisations, and even freezing Because people and their How we help Experian score online means that their credit until we have helped preferences are always changing, We help businesses to identify millions of people in the USA, them reclaim their identity.
were constantly checking and and understand their customers, the UK and Brazil can view their updating data, linking records for We also white label our services as well as to manage the quality credit history and get an idea of our clients and enhancing client for businesses, allowing them to of the data they keep inside how lenders may view them.
records by combining their data use these products to provide their organisations.
We use our This, along with our online tools with ours.
We update millions of additional value to their existing strengths in data management and call centre experts, can help customer pro les for our clients customers, help them to obtain and analytics to help provide a people better understand their every year.
This way our clients new ones and reduce churn.
clear picture of a customer and data.
We believe the more people can be sure their data is as of their needs, so organisations learn and understand about accurate, up-to-date and Our market share can interact with them, and send credit, the more power they relevant as possible.
them more relevant off ers and have to manage it and make We hold leading positions in the communications.
themselves eligible for better USA and the UK.
Our market share credit deals.
We hold leading positions in Our services Our revenue generation Better credit off ers targeting and data quality in We use our strengths in data models We off er comparison services our key markets.
management and analytics to Monthly subscription and which show people credit card, create a picture of what people one-off transaction fees personal loan, mortgage and Our revenue generation are interested in, what theyre not from consumers, revenue or other deals that, based on their models interested in, and what they need.
pro t share on white-label credit information, they are This picture helps our clients Revenue is a mix of transactional, partnerships, and referral more likely to be accepted for.
understand their customers data licences and subscription fees for pre-approved We rank off ers for them in the better, and more eff ectively plan, fees.
credit off ers from financial order that best matches their build and deliver their marketing services providers.
They can increase Our competitors Debt resolution customer retention by rewarding Our competitors Include Acxiom, Epsilon, loyalty, nd new customers to In Brazil, our recovery portal GB Group, Oracle and Trillium.
Include Credit Karma, CallCredit, interact with, build relationships makes it easier for consumers Equifax, Fair Isaac, TransUnion with them, and measure how to see their debts in one place, and other niche providers.
talk to their lenders and set achievable repayment plans.
Bringing our services together for our clients Contracts with our B2B clients may be for a one-off service, be renewed yearly or on a multi-year basis.
Increasingly we are bundling together capabilities from across the Experian portfolio to provide more powerful and better tailored solutions.
This is translating into longer and more persistent contractual relationships with our clients.
