Experian plc 100 Governance Directors report The directors present their report and the Share capital Appointment and removal of directors audited financial statements for the year Details of the Companys share capital and Both the Company, by ordinary resolution, ended 31 March 2018.
The report has been changes during the year ended 31 March 2018 and the directors may elect any person to be prepared in line with the UK Companies are set out in note O to the Company financial a director.
The number of directors shall not Act 2006, and the Corporate governance statements.
exceed the maximum number xed by the report and the Shareholder and corporate Companys articles of association.
Any person information section form part of this Directors appointed by the directors shall only hold offi ce Political donations report.
The Strategic report contains certain until the next AGM and shall then be eligible Experian did not make any political donations information equivalent to that required in a for election.
The offi ce of a director shall be during the year ended 31 March 2018. report of the directors.
vacated on the occurrence of any of the events listed in article 92 of the Companys articles of Going concern Financial and operational information association.
The Company may, in accordance Details of the adoption of the going concern with its articles of association, remove any Results and dividend basis in preparing the Group financial director from offi ce and elect another person statements are set out in note 2 to the Group The Group income statement shows a in their place.
financial statements and are incorporated into pro t for the year ended 31 March 2018 of this report by reference.
The directors Annual General Meeting have announced the payment of a second The Companys 2018 AGM will be held at interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, Directors The Shelbourne Hotel, 27 St Stephens Green, of 31.25 US cents per ordinary share 2017: Dublin 2, D02 H529, Ireland, at 9.30am on Information on directors holding offi ce 28.5 US cents to be paid on 20 July 2018 to Wednesday 18 July 2018.
Shareholders shareholders on the register of members in the year who are unable to attend may submit on 22 June 2018.
A first interim dividend of The directors names, biographical details questions beforehand via email to 13.5 US cents per ordinary share was paid and skills and experience are shown in the agmquestions@experianplc.
com or on the on 2 February 2018, giving a total dividend Board of directors section.
Mike Rogers was prepaid card sent to shareholders with the for the year of 44.75 US cents per ordinary appointed as a non-executive director on notice of meeting.
The questions will be share 2017: 41.5 US cents.
1 July 2017 and Dr Ruba Borno was appointed addressed at the meeting, via the Companys as a non-executive director on 1 April 2018. website at www.
com or Innovation individually as appropriate.
The notice of Particulars of directors remuneration, service Innovation, supported by our talented people, meeting has been circulated to shareholders contracts and interests in the Companys and by research and development, plays a and can also be viewed on the Companys ordinary shares are shown in the Report on key role in supporting Experians business website.
Details of such activities are changes in the directors interests in the given in the Strategic report.
Share capital information ordinary shares between the end of the financial year and 16 May 2018.
Acquisitions and disposals Rights and obligations In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Information in respect of acquisitions and The rights and obligations attaching to the all directors with the exception of Roger Davis, disposals made during the year is contained ordinary and deferred shares are set out in who will retire from the Board with eff ect from in note 39 and note 41 respectively to the note O to the Company financial statements the conclusion of the 2018 AGM on 18 July Group financial statements.
and in the Companys articles of association, 2018, being eligible, will off er themselves for a copy of which can be obtained from the election or re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Registered branch evaluation of the performance of the Board, The Companys articles of association may The Company has a branch registered in its committees and individual directors was be amended by passing a special resolution.
Ireland under branch number 905565. carried out during the financial year.
The Board is satis ed that all directors seeking election ADR programme Post balance sheet events or re-election contribute eff ectively and The Company has a Level 1 American demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Details of events occurring after the end of the Depositary Receipt ADR programme in the The Corporate governance report contains reporting period are contained in note 45 to the USA, for which the Bank of New York Mellon further details of the evaluation process.
The ADRs are traded on the highest tier of the US over-the-counter market, Insurance and third-party Financial risk management, objectives OTCQX, with each ADR representing one indemni cation and policies Experian plc ordinary share.
Further details During the year and up to the date of are given in the Shareholder and corporate Descriptions of the use of financial instruments approval of this Annual Report, the Company information section.
and Experians treasury and risk management maintained liability insurance and third-party objectives and policies are set out in note 7 to indemni cation provisions for its directors the Group financial statements.
Governance 101 Unless the directors determine otherwise, On 18 May 2017, 400,302 ordinary shares in Substantial shareholdings members are not entitled to vote personally the Company were transferred from treasury The Companys articles of association oblige or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, or to Global Shares Ireland Limited, the shareholders to comply with the noti cation to exercise any other members right in administrator of Experians share plans, for nil obligations contained in the UK Disclosure relation to shareholders meetings, in consideration, to be used to meet obligations Guidance and Transparency Rules Sourcebook.
respect of any share for which any call under employee share plans.
As at 16 May 2018, the Company had been or other sum payable to the Company noti ed of the indirect interest below in its As at the date of approval of this Annual remains unpaid.
issued ordinary share capital or voting rights.
Report, the Company holds 61,958,503 2017: Unless the directors determine otherwise, 62,358,805 of its own shares as treasury Restrictions on transfers of shares members are not entitled to vote personally shares, and had an unexpired authority to or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, or purchase up to 77,770,229 of its own shares.
and or voting rights to exercise any other members right in The Company is not aware of any agreements Details of the new authority being requested relation to shareholders meetings, if the between shareholders that may result in at the 2018 AGM are contained in the circular member fails to provide the Company restrictions on the transfer of securities and or to shareholders, which either accompanies with the required information concerning voting rights and, apart from the matters this Annual Report and or is available on the interests in those shares, within the described below, there are no restrictions on Companys website at www.
prescribed period after being served with the transfer of the Companys ordinary shares a notice under the Companys articles Details of the shares in the Company and or voting rights: of association.
purchased by and held under The Experian plc Certain restrictions on transfers of shares Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK The Companys articles of association may from time to time be imposed by, Approved All Employee Share Plan are set out state that, except for certain limited for example, share dealing regulations.
in note P to the Company financial statements.
circumstances, if the number of shares In certain situations, directors and certain in the Company bene cially owned by employees are required to seek the Signi cant agreements change residents of the USA exceeds a fide ned Companys approval to deal in its shares.
of control permitted maximum and the directors give Some of Experians share-based employee notice to the holder s of such shares, the The Group is party to a number of agreements incentive plans include restrictions on the shares do not give their holder s the right that take eff ect, alter, terminate, or have the transfer of shares, while the shares are to receive notice of, attend or vote at the potential to do so, upon a change of control subject to the plan concerned.
of the Company following a takeover bid.
These agreements are as follows: As described in the Report on directors Details of deadlines in respect of voting for remuneration, non-executive directors the 2018 AGM are contained in the notice The Groups banking facilities contain receive a proportion of their fees in shares, of meeting that has been circulated to provisions which, in the event of a change until the value of their shareholding equals shareholders and which can also be viewed of control, could result in their renegotiation their annual fee.
These shares may not at the Companys website.
normally be transferred during their period The Groups Euronotes allow holders to of offi ce.
Purchase, cancellation and holdings require repayment of the notes, if a rating of own shares Where participants in a share-based agency re-rates the notes to below employee incentive plan operated by The existing authority for the Company to investment grade, following a change Experian are the bene cial owners of the purchase its own shares was given at the AGM of control.
shares but not the registered owner, the held on 20 July 2017.
It permits the Company All of Experians share-based employee voting rights are normally exercised by to purchase 94,133,811 of its own shares in incentive plans contain provisions relating to the registered owner at the direction of the market.
Outstanding awards and the participants.
On 18 May 2017, the Company announced its options would normally vest and become Shares carry no voting rights while they are intention to repurchase shares, through a exercisable, subject to satisfaction of any held in treasury.
performance conditions at that time.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the The deferred shares in the Company carry The Group is party to a limited number of Company purchased 26,614,287 of its own no voting rights.
operational arrangements which can be shares, at a cost of US$544m with 9,754,406 terminated or altered upon a change of shares purchased before the 2017 AGM.
control of the Company, but these are not 496,299 shares have been purchased by the considered to be individually signi cant Company since 31 March 2018.
All shares to the Groups business as a whole.
purchased under this programme were In certain cases, it is considered that their cancelled.
disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Substantial shareholdings Percentage Number of of issued ordinary shares share capital Date of noti cation Shareholder voting rights voting rights 11 January 2018 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 46,504,061 5.06% Experian plc 102 Governance Directors report continued The directors also con rm that, to the best of Employment information Independent auditor their knowledge, the financial statements are The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated its Employment of people with disabilities prepared in accordance with the applicable set willingness to continue in offi ce and a of accounting standards, give a true and fair People with disabilities have equal resolution that it be re-appointed as the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position opportunities when applying for vacancies.
Companys auditor will be proposed at and pro t of the Company and the Group In addition to complying with legislative the AGM.
taken as a whole: and the Strategic report requirements, the Group has procedures contains a fair review of the development and to ensure that it treats disabled employees Statement of directors performance of the business and the position fairly and carefully manages their training responsibilities of the Company and the Group taken as a and career development needs.
The policies The directors are responsible for: whole, together with a description of the are considered to operate eff ectively.
principal risks that they face.
The Group supports employees who Preparing the Annual Report, the Group become disabled during the course of their and Company financial statements and In addition, each of the directors considers that employment, by off ering re-training or the Report on directors remuneration, the Annual Report and financial statements, re-deployment, to enable them to remain in accordance with applicable law taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and with the Group whenever possible.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Preparing financial statements which give Employee involvement Groups position and performance, business a true and fair view of the state of aff airs at model and strategy.
Experian is committed to employee the balance sheet date, and the pro t or loss involvement throughout the business.
The for the period then ended of a the Group By order of the Board Group is intent on motivating staff, keeping in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for them informed on matters that concern them use in the European Union, and b the in the context of their employment, and Company in accordance with UK Accounting involving them through local consultative Standards including FRS 101 Reduced Charles Brown procedures.
Where there are recognition Disclosure Framework.
agreements with trade unions, the consultation Company Secretary Keeping proper accounting records which process is established through national and 16 May 2018 disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any local trade union representatives and through time the financial position of the Group and joint consultation committees.
the Company and enable them to ensure Employees are kept well informed on matters Corporate headquarters: that the Group financial statements comply of interest and the financial and economic with applicable law.
Newenham House factors aff ecting the Groups performance.
Northern Cross Taking such steps as are reasonably open This is done through management channels, Malahide Road to them to safeguard the assets of the conferences, meetings, publications and Dublin 17 Company and the Group, and to prevent intranet sites.
More detail on employee D17 AY61 and detect fraud and other irregularities.
engagement, together with information on Ireland corporate responsibility, diversity, succession The maintenance and integrity of the Registered offi ce: planning and talent development, can be found statutory and audited information on the in the Our people and corporate responsibility 22 Grenville Street Companys website.
Jersey legislation and section of the Strategic report.
St Helier UK regulation governing the preparation Jersey and dissemination of financial statements Experian supports employee share ownership JE4 8PX may diff er from requirements in other by providing, whenever possible, employee Channel Islands jurisdictions.
share plan arrangements which are intended to align employees interests with those In addition, the directors consider that, of shareholders.
in preparing the financial statements: suitable accounting policies have been Auditor information selected and applied consistently Relevant audit information judgments and estimates made have been reasonable and prudent As at 16 May 2018, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information, the Group financial statements comply being information needed by the auditor in with IFRSs as adopted for use in the connection with preparing the audit report, European Union of which the auditor is unaware, and each the Company financial statements comply director has taken all steps that he or she with UK accounting standards including ought to have taken as a director in order FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish it is appropriate that the Group and that the auditor is aware of that information.
Company financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Financial statements 103 Financial statements In this section: Page Page 104 Independent auditors report 142 24.
Trade and other payables GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 26.
Net debt non-GAAP measure 109 Group statement of comprehensive income 145 28.
Financial assets and liabilities 110 Group balance sheet 148 29.
Fair value methodology 111 Group statement of changes in total equity 30.
Contractual undiscounted future 112 Group cash ow statement cash ows for financial liabilities 149 31.
Share incentive plans NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 150 32.
Corporate information and related risks 2.
Post-employment bene ts IAS 19 information 3.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments 157 36.
Called-up share capital and share premium account 121 6.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements 37.
Retained earnings and other reserves 122 7.
Notes to the Group cash ow statement 124 8.
Assets and liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale 129 10.
Labour costs and employee numbers continuing operations 162 41.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor 43.
Principal subsidiary undertakings adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT and related party transactions continuing operations 165 45.
Events occurring after the end 132 14.
Net finance costs of the reporting period 133 15.
Group tax charge COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 16.
Discontinued operations 166 Company pro t and loss account 135 17.
Earnings per share disclosures Company statement of comprehensive income 136 18.
Goodwill 167 Company statement of changes in total equity 138 20.
Other intangible assets 168 Notes to the Company financial statements 139 21.
