Strategic report 09 Investment case Market trends Consumer digital norms Population and wealth The data and analytics explosion A unique Automation and technology Regulatory environment proposition Read more on page 12 Experian is a unique investment proposition We also provide capabilities for the detection Our strategy operating at the heart of the data and and prevention of fraud.
Broaden and deepen analytics revolution.
Growing demand for our services has led us our data assets Our roots lie in providing credit information to expand beyond our roots in the UK and Extend our lead in analytics in the assessment of risks associated with USA, and today we operate in 39 countries, and software solutions lending.
While this remains a cornerstone of employing 16,500 people.
our business, today we do much more.
As well Exploit the breadth of We see signi cant potential to grow further as acting for lenders, we serve individuals, our capabilities by investing in our people, data and the science telecommunications companies, governments, of interpreting data, aided by recent advances Accelerate the pace of the automotive sector, US hospitals and many in technology such as arti cial intelligence innovation other industries.
Scale in targeted verticals Every day, the world creates vast quantities By putting our clients first and investing in and geographies of data.
We help people and organisations to new tools and technologies we aim to build derive meaning from data to drive better Transform engagement on our strong financial record and create outcomes for their businesses or in the way with consumers further opportunities for all our stakeholders.
We collect, aggregate and analyse substantial amounts of data, and develop Read more on page 20 sophisticated software platforms to aid analysis and decision-making based on data.
Market-leading global information business with strong market positions Signi cant growth potential Strong financial track record We are the market leader, holding the We continually invest in new product The revenues we generate typically number one or two position across our innovation to address new market have a recurring pro le and this, largest markets the USA, Brazil and opportunities.
coupled with successful growth the UK.
investment, has meant we have We are expanding our position with averaged organic revenue growth We have a diversi ed portfolio of existing clients and adding new ones of 5% each year since we became businesses across diff erent sectors in our more developed markets.
Our aim is and geographies.
We have considerable potential to to consistently grow organic revenue O ur business model is scalable, which introduce and expand our services at a mid-single-digit rate.
means we can grow the business in emerging markets.
We are a highly cash generative, quickly with low incremental cost.
We are expanding our services in low capital intensity company.
W e drive signi cant synergies across new industry segments, such as Our Benchmark EBIT to Benchmark our operations by combining data US healthcare.
operating cash ow conversion rate sources, integrating analytics and has averaged 99% since demerger using technology to secure competitive from GUS plc.
We make the best use of cash we generate, balancing the need for organic investment in innovation, acquisitions, and returns to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Please refer to note 6 to the Group financial statements for fide nitions of organic revenue growth and Benchmark EBIT to Benchmark operating cash ow conversion.
