Experian plc 60 Strategic report Viability statement The table of principal risks in the Strategic In making their assessment, the directors have Assessment of prospects report summarises the risks that could taken account of the strongly cash-generative The context for the assessment prevent the Group from executing its strategy.
nature of our business, our robust capital As explained below, we have considered a solvency position, our ability to raise new Our business model and strategy continue to number of these risks as part of our finance in most market conditions, and be central to understanding our prospects, and assessment of the Groups viability.
potential mitigating actions such as restricting details of these can be found in the Strategic acquisitions, capital investment and, in report.
We conduct a regular cycle of strategic considering scenarios which aff ect viability, Assessment of viability planning, budgeting and forecasting, which reducing dividend payments.
considers current year business performance The directors have concluded that the most and our future prospects.
The process relevant time period for this assessment The results of the stress testing showed that, appraises Group revenue, Benchmark EBIT, remains the three-year period of our normal due to the Groups diversi ed nature, the cash ows, dividend cover, committed and strategic planning cycle.
While our scenario resilience of the core business, its substantial forecast funding, liquidity positions and other analysis is based over three years, this year free cash ows and its strong investmentkey financial ratios, including those relevant we have considered if there are any relevant grade rating, the Group would withstand the to maintaining our investment-grade credit factors over a ten-year period that could considered scenarios, were these to occur ratings.
Our track record over the last decade impact the financial stability of the Group.
during the forecast period, assuming has been consistently robust, even as changes One example is recognising our longer-term mitigating actions were taken.
have occurred in the economic cycle or in the investments.
Viability statement Although the strategic plan re ects the Our strategic aims are to focus on our core directors best estimate of the Groups future Based on their assessment of prospects and areas of competitive strength and develop prospects, the directors have also assessed viability, the directors con rm that they have growth opportunities in our key markets.
the potential impact of a number of scenarios a reasonable expectation that the Group will Our plans for the Groups core operations over and above those included in the plan.
This be able to continue in operation and meet its therefore include organic strategic initiatives has been achieved by quantifying the financial liabilities as they fall due over the three-year and acquisitions.
impact of the scenarios and considering them period ending 31 March 2021.
Looking further alongside the detailed financial forecasts.
forward, the directors have considered whether they are aware of any speci c The assessment process and These scenarios, which are based on aspects relevant factors beyond the three-year horizon keyassumptions of the principal risks highlighted above, that would threaten the long-term financial We assess our prospects through our planning represent severe but plausible circumstances stability of the Group over a ten-year period process and review our growth expectations that we could experience.
and have con rmed that they are aware and the external environment annually, as part The scenarios tested included: of none.
of the strategic planning process.
The Board participates in this process, using the January loss or inappropriate use of data or Strategy meeting each year to focus on the systems leading to serious reputational Groups strategy.
We then develop our annual and brand damage, legal penalties and budget plus a further two-year financial plan.
We assessed The key assumptions in the latest financial the maximum credible extent of a data forecasts, presented to the March 2018 breach, and modelled the likely financial Board meeting, re ect the approved strategy impacts through loss of revenue, dispute and include: and regulatory actions, and the costs of remediation good Benchmark EBIT growth at constant Strategic report exchange rates adverse and unpredictable financial markets This Strategic report was approved by a or scal developments in one of our major continued strong cash ow conversion duly authorised committee of the Board of countries of operation resulting in signi cant directors on 16 May 2018 and signed on its gearing ratio Net debt Benchmark EBITDA economic deterioration, currency weakness behalf by: in the range of 2.0 to 2.5 or restriction.
Speci c consideration has been given this year to modelling the eff ect broadly stable eff ective tax rates before the Charles Brown of a hard Brexit impact of changes of legislation over the Company Secretary medium term new legislation or changes in regulatory enforcement, changing how we operate 16 May 2018 use of excess cash for acquisitions and our business.
Governance 61 Governance In this section: Page 62 Chairmans introduction 64 Board of directors 66 Corporate governance report 76 Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report 78 Audit Committee report 82 Report on directors remuneration 100 Directors report
