Experian plc 18 Strategic report Change to our reporting segments From 1 April 2018 for the financial year ending 31 March 2019 Since Experian shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2006, the shape of our business and the way we operate have changed.
Our aim is to represent our operating structure accurately.
We have therefore simpli ed our business segment reporting from 1 April 2018.
The new reporting format will be adopted for the financial year ending 31 March 2019 FY19.
These changes will help reduce complexity, improve transparency and better present the business according to how it is managed.
Over the past year we have also started to Consumer Services will remain as a separate Operating segments no change report organic revenue growth for these business-to-consumer segment.
In total, We will continue to organise and manage three businesses together.
there will be two business segments.
our business by geographic region and we will continue to group these into the four With the divestment in recent years of a large Within B2B there will be two sub-divisions: segments of North America, Latin America, portion of the Marketing Services business Data and Decisioning.
Data will include: Credit UK and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Paci c for segment, including the Email Cross-Channel Services: and Targeting from Marketing reporting purposes.
Marketing CCM business, the remaining Services.
Decisioning will include: Decision Marketing Services businesses are more Analytics: Data Quality from Marketing aligned to activities within Credit Services Services : and Health from Credit Services Business segments simpli ed and Decision Analytics.
given the nature of solutions it provides.
Historically we have reported, on a voluntary basis, results across four business segments This gives Experian an opportunity to The chart below provides a revenue to help investors understand the diversity of reduce its reporting complexity and reconciliation of the main movements from our business mix.
Increasingly, a signi cant improve transparency.
the old reporting format to the new one.
majority of Experians B2B products and Going forward, for FY19, we will consolidate services from across Credit Services, Credit Services, Decision Analytics and Decision Analytics and Marketing Services Marketing Services into a single Business-toare now bundled, blurring the distinction Business B2B segment.
FY18 business segments FY19 business segments FY18 revenue reconciliation Year ended 31 March 2018 US$m Data 1. Credit Services 1.
Business-to-Business Old Credit Services 2,606 consisting of two sub-divisions: plus Targeting from old 2 Data Marketing Services 296 2.
Decision Analytics 2 Decisioning less Health 342 less Other 9 Total Data 2,551 3.
Marketing Services Decisioning Old Decision Analytics 668 plus Data Quality from old 4.
Consumer Services Marketing Services 161 no change plus Health 342 plus Other 9 Total Decisioning 1,180 Total B2B 3,731 Consumer Services 926 Total revenue 4,657 Revenue from ongoing activities.
1 Business-to-Business disclosures will be of revenue, Benchmark EBIT and Benchmark EBIT margin.
2 Disclosures for the Data and Decisioning sub-divisions will be on a revenue-only basis.
Strategic report 19 As one of the original big data companies weve always been pioneers and now weve opened up the data frontier for our clients.
Vijay Mehta Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology Group, Experian Strategy in action: Extend our lead in analytics and software solutions Exploit the breadth of our capabilities Opening up the next Accelerate the pace of innovation data frontier with Experians Analytical Sandbox We liberated our data from our legacy Finding new markets is much easier for Accessing and analysing large IT architecture putting it into a cloud example, a bank operating in one US state datasets was very manual and environment, with data encrypted in transit can look at data of a neighbouring state to time consuming and at rest, to create Experians Analytical nd people who meet the banks lending Historically the process of moving, ingesting Sandbox built on Experians new big data criteria.
The bank can then quickly and analysing data for businesses was very platform Ascend.
develop a compelling marketing strategy laborious and took a long time.
For example, aligned with its risk tolerances to capture It is an industry first, a self-serve, fullle, physically moving 16 years of credit card new market share.
analytical environment for credit data.
It data on millions of people could take six or gives businesses: near real-time access to Fresher data helps minimise risk for more months.
16 years of anonymised credit data on over instance, if a banks delinquency rates So the data available to perform 220 million people in the USA: easy-to-use are increasing, data visualisation quickly analyses could often be limited to only an tools to help analyse the deep layers of allows the bank to see the increase and organisations own data and sub-sets of content, and on-demand access in one place potential cause.
The sooner they can other databases.
Data could go through via a secure, online interface.
address the causes and reduce losses, many teams, moving from the analytics the more they save.
team to the production team, to operations With the Sandbox, businesses can More relevant off ers for consumers and marketing, before nally reaching the fresher data means companies can make better decisions, faster end-user.
identify the most appropriate time to Access to data is much faster instead What each team did with that data might give someone a credit line increase, for of taking months to determine data also be revalidated and recoded by another instance, before they shop elsewhere.
requirements, order archives and team, duplicating work.
Data was spread process les, users can access data Keep a pulse on indicators to stay ahead across diff erent platforms, with inconsistent on demand and make a decision the of the game so clients can adapt quickly access and formats.
to changing economic situations and regulatory changes.
Time to market is hugely reduced through Weve created a game-changer integration into the Ascend production for strategic analysis environment.
For example, a credit card A team of more than 100 people from company can quickly analyse all its around Experian worked for nine months existing customers to develop more to build the credit platform of the future.
timely and competitive credit line increases, balance transfers and retention off ers.
