Managers Review Peter Ewins, Lead Manager This was another year of progress for the portfolio and the NAV beat the Benchmark with a sterling total return of 9.3% compared to 7.9%.
While these are lower numbers than in the previous year, equity markets have again delivered returns far in advance of inflation.
Smaller company investing is based around individual company threat of a Catalonian break-away from Spain, inconclusive election analysis but in the last couple of years geo-political matters have results in both Germany and Italy, terrorism and the risk of a military become harder to ignore.
What is happening in the US is always conflict with North Korea to name but a few.
However, its easy important for financial markets and perhaps rarely more so than in to over-emphasise the negatives, and the fact is that the global the last year.
The Trump administration, having failed to achieve its economy has actually been thriving, allowing many companies to proposed reform of the health system, moved on to push through deliver record profits.
Encouragingly, the expansion has been more ambitious changes to corporate and personal taxation in December.
balanced between regions and unemployment has been falling Lower tax rates payable by companies with US operations enhanced almost everywhere.
the near-term earnings outlook, and not just for US listed companies.
However, the up-front cost of funding the cuts created some unease From a sector stand-point, technology shares have been among in bond markets and investors started to anticipate a more meaningful the best performers in the markets.
The leading internet stocks rise in interest rates.
This is coming at a time when the Federal such as Amazon and Alphabet the parent of Google, have established incredibly powerful franchises which are disrupting Reserve Bank is also moving to reduce its holdings of Treasury bills.
businesses in legacy consumer areas such as retail and media as Higher interest rates are usually not welcomed by equity markets, more and more of our daily business is transacted online.
In our not least because they will tend to depress profits for companies engagements with management teams, we try to assess the extent with debt and increase the competing attraction of holding cash.
to which companies may be susceptible to disintermediation and The fact remains however that interest rates remain low.
In most pricing pressure going forward, and its certainly not just consumer countries they are still well below inflation reducing the incentive for orientated companies that need to have a credible approach to investors to leave money in the bank.
One of the advantages that smaller companies have is the ability to take decisions more rapidly than larger, more bureaucratic companies and this is arguably of greater importance President Trump also acted to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium entering the US, with the target being to reduce the high trade nowadays in the rapidly evolving trading environment.
deficit, most critically with China.
It is hard to assess how this will eventually play out, and markets will clearly remain sensitive to Our technology weighting fell a little as we took some profits in the IT developments on this front in the coming months.
We have no material exposure to loss-making technology or biotechnology stocks.
These stocks There have been many other things going on in the world that are difficult to evaluate and can be somewhat binary in terms of have influenced the markets: the protracted Brexit process, the outcome.
We took some profits in industrials.
Many stocks in this Table of returns 1 year 3 years 5 years Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark UK 18.8% 7.1% 58.8% 33.1% 128.1% 73.8% Europe 4.0% 11.6% 36.2% 56.4% 90.9% 109.9% North America 5.8% 4.8% 49.1% 47.0% 93.5% 97.2% Japan 15.7% 16.4% 58.9% 68.6% 106.8% 94.2% Rest of World 6.4% 10.4% 23.6% 26.4% 24.3% 41.4% Rest of World performance is compared against the MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific ex Japan Small Cap Index Source F&C, sterling total returns 16 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Industrial classification of the investment portfolio stayed underweight and slightly cut the number of holdings in the as at 30 April 2018 UK as the Brexit process rumbled on.
In relation to gearing, the Board has been keen to maintain effective gearing at around the 5% level, ending the year at 5.1%.
As the Chairmans statement outlined we are looking at the options in relation to additional borrowing facilities, given that the CULS issue only runs to July 2019.
The reviews that follow run through the details of performance across the regional portfolios.
In all cases, stock market index performances are shown as sterling total returns, whereas individual share price performances highlighted are expressed in capital only local currency terms.
UK Review One year Portfolio Performance 18.8% Numis UK Smaller Companies excluding investment companies Index 7.1% The percentages in brackets are as at 30 April 2017 FTSE All-Share Index 8.2% Source: F&C Smaller stocks slightly lagged the overall market against the backarea of the market tend to be cyclical, have performed well and drop of Brexit driven uncertainty.
Our UK portfolio enjoyed a strong are highly rated with historically extended margins.
We remained year, recording an eighth successive year of outperformance by the underweight to real estate within financials.
This sector often lags as widest margin of recent years.
By contrast, we added a little to our healthcare exposure, an area where there are some interesting small cap The UK economy grew by 1.7% in 2017, almost the same pace of growth stocks to choose from.
expansion as in the previous calendar year.
The fall in sterling post the Brexit vote helped the manufacturing and export side of the We slightly increased our exposure to energy during the year as the economy which also benefited from stronger global demand.
We also took holdings in some US companies number of people in employment continued to grow to record levels.
supplying services or products into the US onshore market.
Consumer spending has however been under pressure as wage These appeared to offer better valuation upside compared to US increases have struggled to keep up with the pick-up in inflation.
production companies, many of which remain highly financially This has been consistently above the Bank of Englands 2% target, leveraged.
We sold out of several companies in other parts of the portfolio with large borrowings, including two US based telecoms Currency movements relative to sterling stocks.
It is in the US where leverage concerns us the most, with in the year ended 30 April 2018 some companies still buying in their own highly priced equity using debt to drive short term earnings accretion.
US Dollar Euro Japanese Yen Coming back to performance, the table on the previous page shows 110 Currency strengthening the returns made from the five segments of the portfolio in sterling against Sterling total return terms.
Looking at the last year, returns were positive in all parts of the portfolio and importantly we were ahead of the local 105 small cap indices in the two largest parts of the portfolio, namely North America and the UK.
Our performance in Europe and to a lesser extent with the funds that we hold for exposure to the Rest 100 of the World has been disappointing more recently and we will be seeking to do better in the next year.
95 In terms of asset allocation, there were no major adjustments.
We did however feel that US share valuations were looking extended Currency weakening notwithstanding the earnings boost from the corporate tax cut, and against Sterling 90 therefore the exposure to this market was reduced.
Our exposure Apr Aug Dec Apr to Japan and Asia within the Rest of World segment was increased, 17 17 17 18 though we continue to monitor the trade war threat closely.
We Source: F&C Report and Accounts 2018 | 17 Collective investments 22.2% 19.5% Industrials 19.8% 21.7% Financials 15.8% 16.2% Consumer services 13.3% 12.7% Health care 8.5% 8.0% Consumer goods 7.0% 8.2% Technology 6.6% 7.3% Basic materials 3.8% 3.3% Oil & gas 2.5% 1.4% Utilities 0.5% 0.0% Telecommunications 0.0% 1.7% brands in the UK and developed its presence in Scandinavia, while tonics supplier Fevertree Drinks continued its amazing expansion.
We eventually reluctantly sold our holding given the extent of the run-up in the shares.
For several years we have been cautious on retail stocks on the basis that the trend towards online shopping was likely to prove painful for many high street operators.
A number of well-known retail shares in the small cap sphere fell sharply.
Carpets supplier Victoria might have been expected to suffer given a more sluggish demand backdrop but astute assimilation of a number of acquisitions and international expansion has thus far proved successful in countering these pressures.
Veterinary supplies company Dechra Pharmaceuticals continued to do well, with the shares rising 62.2% and we supported a placing to fund the purchase of complimentary businesses in Europe.
Specialist foams supplier Zotefoams shares rose as its results beat expectations and the company announced an important deal with sports footwear supplier Nike.
Electronic components business DiscoverIE Group shares were up 64.7% as organic growth re-emerged.
John Laing Group is an investor in a project to build and operate new rail lines in the Denver area in the US.
We added to our energy investments and benefited as the oil price rallied.
The best contributor was Faroe Petroleum.
This North Sea and as a consequence in November 2017, the first increase in base focused company has a risk averse business model with a strong rates in more than a decade was announced.
Sterling rose against technical team who have proved adept at finding new reserves and the dollar and yen during the year but was weaker versus the inthen realising value from them.
This, plus the promise of impending favour euro.
production growth, has attracted the attention of a peer which has taken a near 30% stake in company.
This was not the only company The financial sectors produced several of the best performers of the subject of third party interest, and we gained from bids for the year.
AFH Financial Group shares rose 82.8% as the company challenger bank Aldermore and specialist electronics supplier Laird, continued to successfully execute its business plan to consolidate the latter coming after a rescue fundraising which we had supported small IFA businesses.
Fund management businesses with steady in the prior year.
inflows usually do well and Premier Asset Management shares which only floated in 2016, ended the year at nearly double the IPO Huntsworth, the media agency and communications company, had price on the back of some excellent inflows into its multi-asset and an excellent year as its health sector related business grew strongly.
Shares in Draper Esprit, a venture capital Less positively our holdings in TLA Worldwide and Ebiquity suffered.
investment firm specialising in digital technology investing were The formers shares were suspended for a protracted period following up 33%.
A placing of new shares gave management the scope to news of fraud and disappointing results, and we decided to sell invest more in existing and new opportunities and the companys out when they resumed trading as confidence in management was NAV benefited from several profitable disposals and valuation uplifts.
Marketing analytics business Ebiquity shares fell 40.5% as the Draper owns stakes in some very interesting private companies and company missed expectations and made a dilutive disposal.
we are optimistic that a number of these could prove to be lucrative.
Profit warnings are a fact of life in small cap investing as things In the software sector our holding in Craneware, the Scottish dont always go to plan.
During the year Luceco, Carclo, McBride, based supplier of billing services to the US hospitals market made Greencore and Ultra Electronics Holdings all disappointed the the largest individual contribution to outperformance on the whole market with downgrades.
All were negatively affected by the impact portfolio, rising by 53.6%.
US hospitals are under pressure to of a stronger pound on overseas earnings but other stock specific improve their efficiency and Cranewares revenue management issues were the prime cause of share price weakness.
We decided software tools are seeing increased adoption as a result.
to retain the latter four as we felt the share price reactions to the Computacenter pleased the market by outperforming expectations downgrades were over-done, but in Lucecos case we decided to and making a large return of capital to investors.
exit after contact with management failed to convince us that there would not be more trouble on the horizon.
While consumer spending has been sluggish, some business franchises have continued to thrive.
On The Beach Group, an The UK portfolio turnover was lower than in previous years.
We did online travel agent, performed excellently against legacy larger participate in several IPOs, but with a number we ended up taking 18 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT profits after the shares surged on listing.
On the selling side its is now exhibiting solid levels of growth with falling unemployment.
sometimes sad to exit holdings that have served us well such as This thesis however broke down as advertising expenditure stalled.
engineers Hill & Smith initially purchased more than a decade ago We consequently sold the positions on the view that this slowdown and Bodycote, brewer Fuller Smith & Turner, and the aforementioned in TV advertising is due to a structural audience shift to non-linear Fevertree Drinks.
However, it is important to avoid falling in love with television services such as Netflix.
investments and to look at valuations dispassionately.
We also had a number of other stock specific disappointments.
Fortunately, as has been demonstrated for many years, the UK portfolio One of our newer holdings, Lenzing, the Austrian specialist is not as UK centric as was once the case.
It seems unlikely that UK chemical company, fell by 43.4%.
The company is a leading viscose interest rates will move much in the coming period given recent data producer, having a quasi-monopoly position in the production of indicating inflation easing back and a growth slowdown in early 2018. certain specialist materials.
Investors have become concerned The UK does face an uncertain period ahead while the exit from the EU that additional capacity that is scheduled to come onto the market is negotiated and we need to be ready to adjust the portfolio and our will dampen profits.
We are more sanguine and believe that the weighting as the terms and implications become clearer.
proportion of speciality products in their revenues, growth in the end markets and challenges related to building production capacity, will mean profits are more resilient.
We have therefore been selectively European Review One year adding to the position.
One of our Swedish holdings, Inwido, Portfolio Performance 4.0% Europes largest wooden window producer, also had a challenging Euromoney Smaller Europe Ex UK Index 11.6% year and the shares dropped 40.0%.
During the year increased FTSE All World Developed Europe ex UK Index 6.9% demand led to some bottlenecks in their supply chain resulting in increased costs.
While investors in European equities must by now be used to political uncertainty, the prospect of French, German and Italian On a more positive note, as in the UK, a number of our holdings elections would have caused some concern heading into the year in the financial sectors did well, benefitting from the powerful under review, despite the improving economic environment.
The combination of improving earnings and re-ratings.
Scandinavian eventual election of Mr Macron, and the ultimate re-election of companies, Sparebank, the Norwegian bank, Ringkjoebing Ms Merkel as German leader, in combination with an economic Landbobank, the regional Danish bank, and Storebrand, the recovery that became increasingly broad-based, ultimately meant an Norwegian life insurance and pensions business, were up by 17.3%, encouraging back-drop for investing in European smaller companies 13.0% and 21.4% respectively.
Some of our holdings in the sector and the index made good returns.
This was despite the turmoil in have built strong capital positions, and with improving earnings Catalonia and the success of populist parties in the Italian elections prospects, are beginning to pay back capital to shareholders, while more recently.
Disappointingly the portfolio lagged this strong market.
When looking at our sector performance we fared particularly badly in technology.
The sector had a strong year as in other markets and we were hurt by both an underweight position and poor performance from our holdings.
Our low weighting in the sector does not however indicate any particular antipathy towards technology companies, more the results from our research which has led to caution against some areas of the sector that appear particularly expensive.
Turning to our holdings, both ASM International, the Dutch semi-conductor equipment supplier and Lectra, the French software and equipment company, gave back some of their large historic gains, falling by 10.0% and 9.4% respectively.
Unfortunately, this happened entirely in the last part of the year in reaction to some lacklustre near-term results for both companies.
The share price moves seemed to be somewhat overdone and we would expect both shares to recover over time.
Our consumer holdings also had a challenging year, with the holdings in the Spanish TV companies Mediaset Espana and Atresmedia struggling.
The principle reason we owned these Tomra is a world leader in the market for machines used in the collection of cans companies was because they operated in a duopoly which was and bottles for recycling.
set to benefit from the recovery of advertising in an economy that Report and Accounts 2018 | 19 some are beneficiaries of the trend towards higher bond and general The market didnt move much in the early part of the financial interest rates.
year but rose over the October to January period, with investors responding favourably to a pick-up in corporate earnings growth Our top performer, however, was Vidrala, the glass bottling business and the signing into law of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
This which has operations across Iberia and the UK.
The shares were legislated for a material reduction in corporate tax rates, and also up 61.4% as the company strengthened its already leading position reduced personal taxes, thereby providing further stimulus to the US in Portugal by acquiring its most aggressive competitor, thereby stock market and economy, arguably at a time when this was not benefiting not only from increased scale but also from a more benign what was needed.
Another Iberian based company Fluidra, was a new holding in the year.
The company manufactures and distributes After an unusually long period of calm in the financial markets, equipment for the construction and maintenance of residential volatility returned in February 2018.
Inflation had gradually risen and commercial swimming pools.
The market in Europe is now towards targeted levels, and the ten year bond rate responded by recovering after a cyclical downturn, and the companys decision to moving close to 3%.
The Federal Reserve had started the process of merge with a similar US business was well-received by investors.
reducing its balance sheet in October 2017 and over the course of the year raised interest rates three times in an attempt to show the Tomra Systems, the Norwegian recycling company also made market that inflation would not be allowed to get out of control.
It is the market leader by some distance in technology for reverse vending machines, which recycle plastic bottles.
Whilst Over the year the best performing sectors within the market were health operationally the company delivered strong profit growth the shares care, technology and consumer discretionary, while the laggards were performed particularly well following the British governments consumer staples, utilities and materials and processing.
decision to introduce a plastic bottle deposit scheme.
The portfolio outperformed, helped significantly by positive stock Two of the larger sales from the portfolio in the year were Amer selection in the technology sphere.
GTT Communications, a Sports and Christian Hansen.
We have held these stocks for a telecommunications services company, made good progress with number of years, but with the market conditions for sports goods its acquisition strategy, announcing several accretive deals that suppliers becoming tougher in common with many other consumer broadened the companys product portfolio.
WEX, a diversified products, we decided to take profits in Amer Sports, which had payments and transaction processing business with a large part bounced after a tricky 2016 17.
The valuation of ingredients of its earnings generated from its fuel card segment gained 59.6% business Christian Hansen had run up to an extended level and so due to the recovery in gasoline prices.
Total Systems Services, a we decided to sell this long-standing holding as well.
provider of payments and transaction processing services continued to see a healthy level of activity in its US credit card issuing business In terms of outlook, while the recent changes in governments in Italy and the shares rose 46.7% as it benefitted from acquisition and Spain create uncertainty, we continue to be optimistic with regard synergies and lower costs.
CSRA, an IT services provider to the US to the European economy.
Consumer confidence has improved and government, received a takeover bid from General Dynamics at a corporate profit prospects still look positive given the earlier stage in the healthy premium, while golf and country clubs company Clubcorp cycle that Europe stands at compared to the US for example.
whilst a portfolio of smaller companies will naturally be closer aligned with local economic performance, at the margin we are shifting away Health care has been a tricky sector to assess given the potential from some of the more globally exposed industrials where we feel the reforms that the Trump administration had been looking to enact, demand cycles look extended and valuations are no longer supportive.
but our stock selection here also added value.
A management shake-up at Molina Healthcare was well-received by investors with the shares rising 67.2%.
The long-standing CEO and CFO North American Review One year were replaced by a new team that have subsequently restructured Portfolio Performance 5.8% the business.
Shares in The Ensign Group rose 55.3% as the Russell 2000 Index 4.8% companys performance turned for the better with facility occupancy S&P 500 Composite Index 7.3% rates improving and our holdings in contract research company ICON and sterilisation services company STERIS also did well as The Russell 2000 smaller companies Index was up but modestly results impressed.
lagged the larger cap S&P 500 Composite Index.
Relative earnings growth prospects of larger companies which typically generate more As ever not everything worked out as planned.
Franklin Financial of their profits abroad were helped by the weakening of the US dollar Network, a Tennessee based bank, fell by 16.9% as it suffered from against other currencies.
The more technology oriented NASDAQ margin degradation because of a flattening yield curve, increased Composite Index delivered yet another strong year, rising by 11.9% competition for deposits and higher expenses incurred to build in sterling total return terms.
Volumes at Martin Marietta Materials, a producer of construction materials, were impacted by 20 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT adverse weather, contractor labour constraints and a slower than distributor of energy related products, primarily serving the US and expected pace of public contract awards.
The shares were down Canadian onshore markets.
The business had been hurt by lower 11.5% as a result.
Nuance Communications, a provider of speech levels of drilling activity but now the companys strong balance sheet related software and services, found the process of adapting its core should put it in good stead to capture market share as the industry medical offering to the needs of other sectors such as automotive, recovers.
We also added some other recovery situations including longer and more difficult than initially expected.
Same store sales PRA Group which purchases, manages and collects on defaulted growth at The Michaels Co, a retailer of arts and crafts products, loans.
As the credit cycle turns, the company should be able to faced the headwinds of tough yearly comparisons and increased purchase more portfolios at better prices resulting in improved price competition leading to a 20.3% fall in the share price.
Avnet is a global distributor of technology machines business Cardtronics suffered from increased regulation components.
A new management team have addressed several in its pay to use ATM business and we decided to sell the holding at issues at the business that led to elevated customer attrition: growth a loss.
and profitability should improve as a result.
Purchases in the year included two compounders.
These are high Our sales were mostly instances where companies performed well quality businesses with strong competitive advantages that offer and reached their price targets or where we had grounds to believe reliable long-term growth.
Spectrum Brands owns several pet, home that our original investment thesis was broken.
In the former camp, and garden and auto-care brands.
Free cash-flow per share should five examples would be the aforementioned GTT Communications, grow at this company through price increases, several organic growth Roper Technologies a holding company that owns several niche initiatives, operating leverage and sensible capital deployment.
Dolby technology and industrial businesses, defence and transport Laboratories is a provider of highly regarded software and intellectual services company Cubic, IT consultancy business ICF international property to the consumer electronics industry.
We anticipate growth and insurer WR Berkeley.
We felt that our original investment thesis should come from increased involvement with new platforms at for Zayo Group Holdings, an owner of telecommunication assets, existing customers and operating leverage.
was broken as the company lost its strategic direction and failed to reduce its balance sheet leverage.
We have become increasingly Despite being in the ninth year of an economic expansion we are still conscious of the risks in over-leveraged stocks given the outlook for finding some cyclical stocks to invest in.
One such area is industries higher interest rates, and we made several intra-sector switches into serving the energy sector.
Kirby is the largest operator of inland companies with lower debt profiles.
and coastal tank barges in the US.
Excessive capacity building during the shale boom led to a collapse in industry spot rates The near-term outlook for the US economy seems to be one of solid and utilisation.
These should recover as the industry consolidates growth in a somewhat late cycle environment.
The employment with Kirby leading the way and demand comes back.
NOW is a situation is healthy with the unemployment rate now below 4% Kirby is the largest US tank barge operator, benefitting from improving activity in the energy sector.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 21 and wages edging upwards.
Manufacturing has been helped by a As elsewhere, technology related stocks led the way with robotics pick-up in global growth and recovery in the commodities sectors.
and automation key themes, and growth stocks in general did better Housing and construction continues to recover but has recently than value ones.
This was unhelpful for our holding in the Eastspring been volatile because of supply constraints.
Government spending Investments Japan Smaller Companies Fund, which has an is now increasing because of more certainty over the budget.
The un-ashamed bias towards value stocks.
This investment approach, recently enacted tax cuts as well as increased optimism amongst applied consistently by an experienced team, has worked well over businesses has led to a pick-up in capital investment.
the long term, and we remain confident that it will continue to do so in the future.
Corporate earnings growth has accelerated significantly in 2018 to date because of tax reform and a rebound in energy sector The other fund that we own for exposure to the market is managed profits.
Several risks are however on the horizon: valuations still by Aberdeen.
This has more of a focus on quality growth stocks, look stretched, corporate leverage is high and political risk is still and given the underlying market dynamic, this did better than very prevalent, not least in relation to trade policy.
Furthermore, the Eastspring fund, reversing the pattern from the prior year.
We inflationary pressures appear to be building and this could accelerate continue to review potential other funds that we could supplement monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve at a time when bond the existing two holdings with.
issuance is rising due to a higher fiscal deficit.
We will continue to focus on companies with strong balance sheets and where we have In recent years, political risk in Japan has been lower than elsewhere, confidence in their ability to pass rising costs through.
with Shinzo Abes LDP winning re-election in October 2017, this looked likely to continue.
More recently however speculation has risen that Abe could call another election as the opposition has been Japanese Review One year causing parliamentary grid-lock to halt the advance of talks about Portfolio Performance 15.7% changing the constitution.
While this does create some uncertainty, MSCI Japan Small Cap Index 16.4% we suspect that concern could prove unfounded.
Topix Index 13.8% Corporate earnings projections for the March 2019 fiscal year This was a good year for Japanese equities, with smaller company appear to be being set conservatively, which hopefully provides shares doing particularly well.
The portfolio delivered a strong return scope for another year of positive surprises to come.
The yen albeit ended a little behind the MSCI Japan Small Cap Index.
remains at a competitive level, though the country would clearly be impacted if the US Chinese trade spat worsens.
We are presently In a year when events elsewhere have tended to dominate the overweighting Japan in our asset allocation, taking comfort from headlines, Japans economy enjoyed a solid year, in so doing lower valuation metrics in the market compared with elsewhere.
At recording the longest successive quarterly period of expansion a time when interest rates around the world are gravitating upwards, since the Japanese economic bubble period.
As a large exporting Japans corporate tradition of strong balance sheets is another country, there have been clear benefits from the global pick-up in advantage.
The labour market continued to improve with unemployment very low at less than 4%, and more of the working age population Rest of World Review One year is now actively seeking employment, important given the negative Portfolio Performance 6.4% demographic drivers.
MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific ex Japan Small Cap Index 10.4% MSCI EM Latin American Small Cap Index 11.3% While still below the target of the Bank of Japan, inflation is now comfortably in positive territory and the recent rise in commodity prices could drive it up further.
The Bank of Japan recently indicated This part of the portfolio covers a large number of individual markets that it was assessing how it should go about ceasing quantitative and as usual there was quite a dispersion of returns in the year.
easing, but for now some 80 trillion yen of assets are still being Unfortunately our portfolio underperformed the overall Asian and bought each year, providing support to financial asset prices.
Latin American small cap indices this year.
The equity market was lifted by a generally positive performance As with the previous financial year, the second half proved more from companies, with profits tending to come in well ahead of difficult than the first for emerging markets.
While this was partly due to cautious guidance stemming from President Trumps moves to impose tariffs mentioned from companies a year earlier, there have been some genuinely earlier on, served to dampen investor sentiment towards Asia, encouraging results coming through.
The slow grind towards a although in overall terms there were net inflows into the markets over more shareholder friendly culture in Japan is continuing, with more the year as a whole.
management teams recognising the need to deliver better returns, though there is still a long way to go at many companies.
While many Asian countries are less dependent than they once were on the US with inter-regional trade becoming more important, 22 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT the threat of a reduction in export business to the worlds largest increase our holding in this well-managed fund as it is closed to economy was not good news.
It remains to be seen how this plays new investment to prevent the investment team from having liquidity challenges in managing the assets.
out but given the increasingly sophisticated and global supply chains that exist across many industries, its hard for investors to know how to factor this in to their deliberations.
The North Korean nuclear Underperformance in the year was mainly the result of weaker testing programme also had an impact on markets from time to performance from our two investment trust holdings.
The Scottish time, but hopefully risks here have diminished more recently.
Oriental Smaller Companies Trust portfolio has been repositioned to a higher conviction approach with fewer holdings after a change Underlying economic growth across Asia if anything firmed in the last of lead manager.
Thus far results have been underwhelming, but year with Chinas published data suggesting that it was growing at a we still think the team operate a prudent and sensible approach solid and relatively stable rate.
The Chinese economy is undergoing to investing in the region and hope for better results in the new a rebalancing with services as opposed to manufacturing becoming year.
The Utilico Emerging Markets fund also lagged with its more important, and issues such as pollution, health and education sector skew working against it.
We remain positive on the medium are becoming more relevant in policy making.
With the US dollar term outlook here given the ongoing need for more infrastructure weak for much of the year, central banks in Asia did not need to spending in many emerging markets.
respond to the move up in US interest rates, although more recently a revival in the dollar has prompted some fears of a run on some of We continue to have regular dialogue with the fund managers of our the perceived weaker local currencies.
holdings and may introduce new positions in the coming year given the relatively disappointing performance of late.
The more recent The best performing markets in Asia during the year included China, recovery in the US dollar is not overly helpful for these markets based Thailand, Singapore and Korea, while weaker markets included the on historical performance, bringing the risk that some countries may Phillipines, Indonesia and Australia.
need to lift their own interest rates.
We remain optimistic that good fund management teams with a diligent approach to investment can Latin American markets followed a similar path to Asia, with a unearth attractive opportunities in these markets.
Brazil, the largest market by far, had a good year as the economy moved out of recession at last.
The country is Outlook benefitting from buoyant exports into China of agricultural products Its always hard to call the near term outlook for markets.
Corporate and iron ore, and during the year moderating inflation allowed the earnings are rising in most markets but we remain conscious that central bank to slash interest rates.
Corruption scandals continued to equity market valuations are potentially vulnerable at a point of time undermine confidence in politicians as the country approaches fresh when interest rates are moving up and when net bond buying by Presidential elections in the Autumn.
Other markets were mixed with central banks is set to turn to net selling.
The extent of the impact Mexico impacted by fears of reduced trade with the US and damage of the global economy from US trade policy is unclear at this stage from earthquakes, while more recently the Argentinian currency has though we would hope that tensions moderate.
The months ahead slumped following a policy error to cut interest rates in January.
will hopefully provide greater clarity around the Brexit process, while European politics will also be interesting to watch given the new Our investments in Asia and Latin America are made through administration now in place in Italy.
holdings in seven individual funds.
These mainly focus on Asia, as The progress of the fund will as ever, mainly depend on the we feel that the underlying universe of small cap companies here is superior to those in South America.
During the year, the best individual stock selections that the team make.
We are optimistic performing fund was managed by Manulife, with an overweight about the outlook for the portfolio and will continue to look for new stance to technology and growth stocks in general paying off opportunities in the year ahead.
We added to our holding in the fund during the year.
Our holding in the HSBC managed fund also performed well in the second year that we have been invested.
Unfortunately, we cant Peter Ewins 19 June 2018 Report and Accounts 2018 | 23
