Strategic Report We aim to secure a high total return for our shareholders over the longer term.
We do this by selecting well-managed publicly listed smaller companies with growth potential and market capitalisations that fall into the generally accepted local definition of a smaller company.
This strategy has produced investment out-performance over the longer term.
Business model particularly well suited to long-term investment in these smaller less The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company.
As an investment company with no employees, we believe that the optimum basis for doing this and achieving our objective is a Our appointed Manager places particular focus on fundamental strong working relationship with our appointed Manager, FCIB, a analysis of the opportunities in the North American, UK and subsidiary of F&C.
Within policies set and overseen by the Board of European stock markets.
The emphasis is on meeting individual Directors, the Manager has been given overall responsibility for the companies and understanding the quality of their management, management of the Companys assets, asset allocation, gearing, their position in their targeted market and their strategy for growth.
stock and sector selection and risk.
Engagement on environmental, Importantly, assessment is made on each individual companys social and governance ESG matters are also undertaken by F&C.
financial strength and cash flow dynamics.
The aim is to invest in high quality companies at attractive prices with the potential to In most parts of the world, smaller company equities have historically deliver strong returns.
We use funds to gain exposure to companies delivered strong longer term returns to investors ahead of overall in areas where our Manager lacks dedicated smaller company equity market returns.
As an investment trust, the Company is investment management resource, such as in Japan, Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Exposure to the different geographic markets is adjusted within specific ranges in the light of the attraction of local valuations and the outlook for currencies, but stock selection is the main driver of the Companys overall returns.
A full list of investments appears on pages 26 to 28.
The Board remains responsible for decisions over corporate strategy: corporate governance: risk and control assessment: setting In the year under review, policies detailed on pages 10 and 11: setting limits on gearing F&C engaged with and asset allocation: monitoring investment performance: and setting and monitoring marketing budgets.
companies held in ESG impact the portfolio and had As the Company has no employees and no premises, the Board has concluded that the direct impact of its activities is minimal.
voted at 202 company The Companys indirect impact occurs through the large range of meetings on a range of organisations and businesses in which it invests.
The Company aims to mitigate their impact through the implementation of F&Cs ESG issues.
Responsible Ownership policy, which encourages investee companies to focus on ESG matters.
F&Cs statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages and supports F&C on its voting policy and its stance towards 8 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT ESG issues.
The statement is available on F&Cs website at Managing risks and opportunities http: www.
We look to make good use of our corporate structure and the investment opportunities that lead to long-term growth in capital and Our ESG policies are aligned towards the delivery of sustainable income for our shareholders.
Like all businesses, these opportunities investment performance over the longer term and are set out on do not come without risks and uncertainties and so the performance page 11. of the Manager is monitored at each Board meeting on a number of levels.
In addition to managing the investments, the ancillary functions Manager evaluation of administration, secretarial, accounting and marketing services Investment performance and responsible ownership are fundamental are all carried out by the Manager.
They provide reports on the to delivering sustainable long-term growth in capital and income for investment portfolios: the wider portfolio structure: risks: compliance our shareholders and therefore an important responsibility of the with borrowing covenants: income, dividend and expense forecasts: Directors is exercising a robust annual evaluation of the Managers errors: internal control procedures: marketing: shareholder issues, performance.
This is an essential part of the strong governance that including the Companys share price premium discount to diluted is carried out by the Board of Directors, all of whom are independent NAV: and accounting and regulatory updates.
Shareholders can assess our financial performance from the Key The process for the evaluation of the Manager for the year under review Performance Indicators that are set out on page 13 and, on page and the basis on which the decision to reappoint them for another year 14, can see what the Directors consider to be the Principal Risks are set out on pages 33 and 34.
FCIBs fee as Manager is based that we face.
The risk of not achieving the Companys objective, on the net assets of the Company.
or of consistently under-performing the Companys Benchmark or competitors, may arise from any or all of: poor stock selection: Lead Manager and the specialist management teams inappropriate asset allocation: weak market conditions: ineffective As Lead Manager on behalf of F&C, Peter Ewins is responsible or expensive gearing: poor cost control: loss of assets: and service for the allocation of the assets on a regional basis and for the provider governance issues.
In addition to continually monitoring the construction of the investment portfolio including the selection of Managers performance, their commitment and available resources any smaller company investment funds utilised.
F&C has a team and their systems and controls, the Directors also review the services of smaller company investment managers that support the Lead provided by other principal suppliers.
These include the Custodian Manager in the selection of stocks for the North American, UK and and Depositary in their duties towards the safeguarding of the assets.
The policies applied in running the Company are set out in detail on Shareholder communication and marketing the following page, whilst the Lead Managers review of activity in We foster good working relationships with our key stakeholders: the year can be found on page 16.
In the light of the Companys our Manager, as described above, and our shareholders.
With a strategy, investment processes and control environment relating significant proportion of our shareholders being retail investors and to both the oversight of the Companys service providers and the savings or execution-only platforms representing an increasingly effectiveness of the risk mitigation activities, the Board has set out significant and growing element of the shareholder base, we remain on page 15 its reasonable expectation that the Company will focused with our Manager on the optimal delivery of the Companys continue in operation for the next five years.
All available channels are used including the internet and social media as well as the F&C Savings Plans, which remain a cost effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
