Strategic Report We aim to secure a high total return for our shareholders over the longer term.
We do this by selecting well-managed publicly listed smaller companies with growth potential and market capitalisations that fall into the generally accepted local definition of a smaller company.
This strategy has produced investment out-performance over the longer term.
Business model particularly well suited to long-term investment in these smaller less The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company.
As an investment company with no employees, we believe that the optimum basis for doing this and achieving our objective is a Our appointed Manager places particular focus on fundamental strong working relationship with our appointed Manager, FCIB, a analysis of the opportunities in the North American, UK and subsidiary of F&C.
Within policies set and overseen by the Board of European stock markets.
The emphasis is on meeting individual Directors, the Manager has been given overall responsibility for the companies and understanding the quality of their management, management of the Companys assets, asset allocation, gearing, their position in their targeted market and their strategy for growth.
stock and sector selection and risk.
Engagement on environmental, Importantly, assessment is made on each individual companys social and governance ESG matters are also undertaken by F&C.
financial strength and cash flow dynamics.
The aim is to invest in high quality companies at attractive prices with the potential to In most parts of the world, smaller company equities have historically deliver strong returns.
We use funds to gain exposure to companies delivered strong longer term returns to investors ahead of overall in areas where our Manager lacks dedicated smaller company equity market returns.
As an investment trust, the Company is investment management resource, such as in Japan, Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Exposure to the different geographic markets is adjusted within specific ranges in the light of the attraction of local valuations and the outlook for currencies, but stock selection is the main driver of the Companys overall returns.
A full list of investments appears on pages 26 to 28.
The Board remains responsible for decisions over corporate strategy: corporate governance: risk and control assessment: setting In the year under review, policies detailed on pages 10 and 11: setting limits on gearing F&C engaged with and asset allocation: monitoring investment performance: and setting and monitoring marketing budgets.
companies held in ESG impact the portfolio and had As the Company has no employees and no premises, the Board has concluded that the direct impact of its activities is minimal.
voted at 202 company The Companys indirect impact occurs through the large range of meetings on a range of organisations and businesses in which it invests.
The Company aims to mitigate their impact through the implementation of F&Cs ESG issues.
Responsible Ownership policy, which encourages investee companies to focus on ESG matters.
F&Cs statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages and supports F&C on its voting policy and its stance towards 8 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC
