Policy Summary Investment is not considered an issue as the Company has sufficient liquid The Company invests in smaller companies worldwide in order to resources to fund any likely level of dividend payment.
Risks to the secure a high total return.
It pursues this investment objective by dividend policy include: worldwide financial and political instability investing in a large number of stocks in various industry sectors leading to significant deterioration in the level of income received globally.
It seeks attractively valued investment opportunities by the Company: and unforeseen and significant changes to the wherever they may be without constraint to specific sector or Companys regulatory environment.
Taxation Investment is made mainly in publicly listed equities including The Board is fully committed to complying with applicable legislation those on the Alternative Investment Market.
Investment can also and statutory guidelines, including the UKs Criminal Finance Act be made in other types of securities or assets including collective 2017, designed to prevent tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
The policy is based upon a risk assessment investment funds.
No more than 10% of the total assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended investment companies, unless undertaken by the Board and professional advice is sought as and such investment companies have themselves published investment when deemed necessary.
policies to invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other closed-ended investment companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The Company complies at all times with Section 1158 of the Investments in unlisted securities require prior Board approval.
No Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158 such that it does not transaction can be made which would increase the value of any suffer UK Corporation Tax on capital gains: ensures that it submits holding of the Company to exceed 10% of the value of the total correct taxation returns annually to HMRC and settles promptly any portfolio.
taxation due: and ensures that it claims back in a timely manner, where possible, all taxes suffered in excess of taxation treaty rates The Company can borrow in either sterling or foreign currencies.
Effective gearing is limited, in normal circumstances, to a maximum of 20% of shareholders funds.
Derivative instruments, such as Marketing futures, options, and warrants, can be used for efficient portfolio F&C promotes investment in the Companys shares, which are management up to a maximum of 10% of the NAV at any one time.
suitable for retail distribution in the UK as well as professionally The Board, with advice from the Manager, considers the foreign advised private clients and institutional investors.
The Board works exchange outlook, as this can affect both the asset allocation and closely with F&C to ensure optimal delivery of the Companys borrowing strategy, and can hedge the portfolio against currency investment proposition through all available channels including the movements.
No such hedging has been undertaken in the period internet and social media.
The F&C Savings Plans remain a cost under review.
effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
Borrowing Premium Discount The Board issues shares at a premium to the diluted NAV per The Company has the flexibility to borrow over the longer term and to use short-term borrowings by way of loans.
Borrowings, which can share helping to prevent an excessive build-up of demand for the be taken out either in Sterling or foreign currency, would normally be shares and to reduce premium volatility.
Such issues are only made expected to fall within a range of 020% of shareholders funds.
The when the Companys shares are trading at a premium and they are Board believes that structural gearing throughout the investment cycle therefore accretive to the NAV.
is appropriate for the enhancement of future shareholder returns.
In the event that the shares revert to trading at a price lower than Dividend the NAV, the Board would aim to keep the discount with the diluted The Companys revenue account is managed with the objective NAV per share excluding current period income at no more than 5% in normal market conditions.
The Board would do this by utilising its of continuing its record of delivering a rising income stream in real terms for shareholders.
Prudent use of revenue reserves established shareholder authority to buy back shares.
over many years is made whenever necessary to help meet any revenue shortfall.
In either scenario, this strategy has the benefit of enhancing NAV per share for continuing shareholders.
In determining dividend payments, the Board takes account of timely income forecasts, brought forward distributable reserves, prevailing inflation rates, the Companys dividend payment record and Corporation Tax rules governing investment trust status.
Liquidity 10 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC
