Dir Directors ectors Anthony Townsend Josephine Jo Dixon Chairman Jo was appointed to the Board on 11 February was appointed to the Board on 2015.
She is a non-executive director of 24 September 2004 and is chairman of Strategic Equity Capital PLC, JPMorgan the Nomination Committee.
He has spent European Investment Trust PLC, Standard over 45 years working in the City of London Life Equity Income Trust PLC, BB Healthcare and was chairman of the Association of Trust PLC and Ventus VCT PLC.
Shared Investment Companies from 2001 to 2003. directorships with other Directors: He is chairman of Baronsmead Second JPMorgan European Investment Trust PLC Venture Trust PLC, Finsbury Growth & with Andrew Adcock Income Trust PLC, Gresham House PLC and Miton Global Opportunities PLC.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None David Stileman David was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2015.
He is an operating partner of Corsair Andrew Adcock Capital LLP, a member of the Advisory was appointed to the Board on 31 July 2007.
Boards of FTV Capital LLP and BizEquity He was, until mid-2009, vice chairman of LLC and a senior advisor at CamberView Citigroup Corporate Finance and managing Partners LLP.
He is chairman of The Garden partner of Brompton Asset Management Bridge Trading Company Ltd and Chichester Limited until July 2011.
He has more than Art Trust Limited.
He is an executive director 30 years experience in the City of London of Stileman Consulting Limited and an and is chairman of Majedie Investments PLC, Honorary Trustee of the Royal Academy VPC Specialty Lending Investments PLC, of Arts.
Shared directorships with other JPMorgan European Investment Trust PLC Directors: None and Panmure Gordon & Co Ltd.
He is also a non-executive director of Foxtons Group PLC.
Shared directorships with other Directors: JPMorgan European Investment Jane Tozer Trust PLC with Jo Dixon Senior Independent Director was appointed to the Board on 13 June 2005.
She is a non-executive director and senior independent director of StatPro PLC Anja Balfour and a non-executive director of Nominet UK, Interim Chairman of the Audit and Asthma UK and Citizens Advice in Three Management Engagement Committee Rivers Ltd. She is also a member of the was appointed to the Board on 1 June Warwick Business School Advisory Board.
She is a non-executive director She previously worked at IBM and then as of Schroder Japan Growth Fund PLC, CEO of a software development company.
Martin Currie Asia Unconstrained Trust and Shared directorships with other Directors: British Empire Trust, and sits on the board None of mutual Scottish Friendly Assurance.
Previously Anja spent over 20 years as a fund manager, running Japanese and International Equity portfolios for Stewart Ivory, Baillie Gifford and latterly, Axa Framlington.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None All Directors are members of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
