OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION GOVERNANCE REPORT Dir Directors ectors Report Report The Directors submit the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2018.
The Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report and the Report of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee all form part of this Directors Report.
Statement regarding Report and Accounts The Company has received approval from HMRC as an investment The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit and trust under section 1158 and has since continued to comply with Management Engagement Committee, the Report and Accounts, the eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements of that section.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Accounting and going concern position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit The Financial Statements, starting on page 52, comply with and Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the draft current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the Report and Accounts for the purposes of this assessment.
The Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of outlook for the Company can be found on pages 6 and 23.
Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
Principal risks can be found on page 14 with further information The significant accounting policies of the Company are set out on financial risks in note 24 on the accounts.
There are no instances in note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified independent auditors where the Company is required to make disclosures in respect of opinion on the Financial Statements appears on page 46.
4R, other than in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 7 R Shareholders will be asked to approve the adoption of the Report concerning the allotment of shares.
This disclosure is on page 32. and Accounts at the AGM Resolution 1.
Results and dividends As discussed in note 23 on the Accounts, the Directors believe that, The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The in light of the controls and monitoring processes that are in place, recommended final dividend of 10.00 pence per share is payable the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational on 8 August 2018 to shareholders on the register of members on existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of 13 July 2018 subject to approval at the AGM Resolution 4.
In considering this, the Directors took together with the interim dividend of 4.40 pence per share, makes a into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities total dividend of 14.40 pence per share and represents an increase which can be used to meet short-term funding commitments, and of 17.6% over the comparable 12.25 pence per share paid in the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing respect of the previous year.
Accordingly, it is reasonable for the financial statements to continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The Companys Company status longer term viability is considered in the Five Year Horizon The Company is registered as a public limited company in terms of Statement on page 15. the Companies Act 2006 the Act and is an investment company as defined by Section 833.
The Company is registered in England Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors and Wales with company registration number 28264 and is subject Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK and European her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant legislation and regulations including company law, financial reporting to the preparation of the Report and Accounts of which standards, taxation law and its own articles of association.
 LLP PwC or the auditors is unaware and he or she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be Taxation expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and As set out in note 7 on the Accounts, the Company is exempt from to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
UK Corporation Tax on its worldwide dividend income and from UK Corporation Tax on any capital gains arising from the portfolio of Reappointment of auditors investments, provided it complies at all times with section 1158 of PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors the Corporation Tax Act 2010 section 1158.
Dividends received to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and from investee companies domiciled outside the UK are subject authorising the Audit and Management Engagement Committee to taxation in those countries in accordance with relevant double to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to taxation treaties.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 31 shareholders at the AGM Resolutions 11 and 12.
Further information During the year, the Company issued shares on 49 separate in relation to the reappointment can be found on page 43. occasions.
A total of 1,222,500 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 305,000 were issued at an average price of 1331.12 pence per Capital structure share for a total consideration of 16,273,000 before the deduction The Companys issued share capital at 30 April 2018 consisted of of issue costs.
1,375,218 new ordinary shares were also issued as 59,732,792 ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, with a result of the CULS conversions during the year.
No further shares voting rights and 22.2 million nominal of CULS.
The CULS are have been allotted since the year end, up to 14 June 2018. listed on the London Stock Exchange and are tradeable assets.
As at 14 June 2018 being the latest practicable date before Details of the allottees are set out in the following table: publication of this report the number of ordinary shares in issue was Number Price Total 59,732,792.
Number of shares range consideration Allottee of issues issued pence 000s All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and distributions 1290.3 to Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited 9 411,000 5,492 and carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning 1379.8 the transfer of securities in the Company, no special rights with 1290.3 to regard to control attached to securities, no agreements between Winterflood Securities Limited 3 148,000 1,984 1373.3 holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company 1286.0 to and no agreement which the Company is party to that affects its Numis 37 663,500 8,797 1388.0 control following a takeover bid.
Details of the capital structure can be found in note 15 on the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Holders of CULS 2 1,375,218 977.697 Company including accumulated revenue reserves are available for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Subject to annual shareholder approval, the Company may also Upon a winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the purchase its own shares when trading at a discount to diluted NAV surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders pro rata to their per share.
The shares can either be cancelled or held in treasury holdings of ordinary shares.
Full details are set out in the Companys to be sold as and when they return to a premium or to a narrower articles of association.
discount than the weighted average discount at which they had been bought back and in any event at no more than a 5% discount to the On 9 August 2017, 2,774,368 units of CULS were converted into prevailing diluted NAV per share.
At the annual general meeting held 283,752 ordinary shares and on 12 February 2018, 10,671,434 on 27 July 2017 shareholders gave the Board authority to buy back units of CULS were converted into 1,091,466 ordinary shares.
up to 14.99% of the Companys shares 8,606,000 shares during the In accordance with the terms of the CULS issue, the conversion following 15 months.
No shares have been purchased either during price of the CULS was determined at 977.6970 pence per 1 the year under review or since the year end and to the date of this nominal of CULS for one ordinary share.
CULS holders are entitled report.
No shares are held in treasury.
to convert their CULS, in whole or in part, into ordinary shares on each 31 January and 31 July until 31 July 2019.
Holders of CULS Voting rights and proportional voting are entitled to receive interest at a rate of 3.5% per annum payable At 14 June 2018 the Companys 59,732,792 ordinary shares in issue semi-annually on 31 January and 31 July in each year.
Any CULS represented a total of 59,732,792 voting rights.
As at 30 April 2018 not previously redeemed, purchased or converted will be repaid by and since that date no notifications of significant voting rights have the Company on 31 July 2019 at its nominal amount together with been received under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure interest accrued up to but excluding the date of redemption.
On a winding-up of the Company, the nominal amount of the CULS Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote on all resolutions which would rank ahead of the ordinary shares but would be subordinated are proposed at general meetings of the Company.
Each ordinary to the Companys other borrowings and creditors.
Therefore, the shareholder is entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a rights and remedies available to the CULS Trustee and CULS poll, to one vote for every ordinary share held.
CULS holders have holders may be limited by applicable winding-up, insolvency, rethe right to receive notice of, but not to attend, annual general organisation, moratorium or similar provisions relating to or affecting meetings of the Company.
CULS holders have the power by Extraordinary Resolution to Issue and buyback of shares sanction any modification, abrogation or compromise of or At the annual general meeting held on 27 July 2017, shareholders arrangement in respect of their rights against the Company and to gave the Board authority to issue up to 10% of the Companys assent to any modification of the provisions of the Trust Deed.
shares 5,741,000 shares until the next AGM in July 2018 and the power to allot such shares for cash without first offering them to Approximately 52% of the Companys share capital is held on existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
behalf of non-discretionary clients through the F&C Savings Plans.
32 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT For those planholders who do not return their voting directions, registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The the nominee company will vote these shares in proportion to the Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
directions of those who do proportional voting.
Implementation of this arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% of Safe custody of assets the shares held in the savings plans being voted.
A maximum The Companys listed investments are held in safe custody by limit of 77,000 shares that any one individual investor can vote, JPMorgan Chase Bank the Custodian.
Operational matters being approximately 5% of the minimum threshold, also applies.
with the Custodian are carried out on the Companys behalf by Any shares voted by an investor in excess of the maximum limit the Manager via F&C in accordance with the provisions of the remain valid, but do not form part of the proportional voting investment management agreement.
The Custodian is paid a basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude their shares from the variable fee dependent on the number of trades transacted and proportional voting arrangement.
location of the securities held.
The investment in Australian New Horizons Fund is not held by the Custodian but the Board has Borrowings satisfied itself that adequate custodial arrangements exist.
At the year end, 22.2 million nominal of CULS remained in issue.
The Company entered into a two-year 30 million multi-currency revolving Depositary credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc in September JPMorgan Europe Limited the Depositary acts as the Companys 2017.
An overdraft arrangement is available to the Company by the Depositary in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Custodian for settlement of investment trades if necessary.
The Depositarys responsibilities, reference is made on page 6 and in note 12 on the accounts.
which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys website, include: cash monitoring: ensuring the proper Remuneration Report segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments The Remuneration Report, which can be found on pages 39 that are held by the Custodian: and monitoring the Companys and 40 provides detailed information on the remuneration compliance with investment and leverage limits requirements.
The arrangements for Directors of the Company.
Shareholders will be Depositary receives for its services a fee of one basis point per asked to approve both the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report annum, based on the Companys net assets, payable monthly in on Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors re-elections Although the Depositary has delegated the safekeeping of all assets The names of the Directors of the Company, along with their held within the Companys investment portfolio to the Custodian, in biographical details, are set out on page 30 and are incorporated the event of loss of those assets that constitute financial instruments into this report by reference.
All the Directors held office throughout under the AIFMD, the Depositary will be obliged to return to the year under review.
All the Directors will stand for re-election the Company financial instruments of an identical type, or the by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Resolutions 5 to 10. corresponding amount of money, unless it can demonstrate that the Anthony Townsend the Chairman, Andrew Adcock and Jane Tozer loss has arisen as a result of an external event beyond its reasonable have each served as a Director for more than nine years.
control, the consequences of which would have been unavoidable despite all reasonable efforts to the contrary.
The Nomination Committee has considered each Director and the Board has concurred with the Nomination Committees assessment The Managers fee that each Director is independent, continues to make a valuable and The Manager earns a management fee of 0.55% per annum of the effective contribution and remains committed in the role.
net assets managed by F&C and a reduced management fee of 0.275% of the market value of investments in third party collective Directors interests and indemnification funds.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly.
The amount payable There were no contracts to which the Company was a party and was 3,885,000, an increase of 19% from 3,262,000 last year in which a Director is, or was, materially interested during the year.
reflecting the increase of the Companys average net assets during There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors the year.
Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed information in concerning compensation for loss of office.
relation to the management fee.
Performance fees are no longer paid to the Manager.
The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as Manager evaluation process Directors of the Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise F&Cs performance is considered by the Board at every meeting to a third party for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
This with a formal evaluation by the Audit and Management Engagement deed of indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision as defined Committee in June each year.
In evaluating the Managers by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been in force performance, the Board considers a range of factors including the throughout the period under review and remains in place as at the investment performance of the portfolio as a whole, performance date of this report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys of the various regional sub-portfolios and the skills, experience and Report and Accounts 2018 | 33 depth of the team involved in managing the Companys assets.
The the annual general meeting in 2019 or, if earlier, 15 months from the UK, US and European fund management team present to the Board passing of the resolution.
The Board measures the overall relative success of the Company against the Benchmark, with each regional subResolution 14 empowers the Directors to allot such securities for portfolio being measured against relevant local small capitalisation cash, other than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis and indices.
It also considers the resources and commitment of the also to sell treasury shares without first offering them to existing Manager in all areas of its responsibility, including the marketing and shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an aggregate administrative services provided to the Company.
nominal amount also of 1,493,250 representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 14 Manager reappointment June 2018.
Resolution 16 specifically authorises the Directors The annual evaluation of the Manager by the Audit and Management to sell treasury shares if the price is at a narrower discount than Engagement Committee took place in June 2018 with a the weighted average discount at which the shares had been presentation from the Lead Manager and F&Cs Head of Investment bought back and in any event at no more than a 5% discount to Trusts.
This focused primarily on investment performance and the the prevailing NAV per share.
Resolution 16 does not preclude the services provided to the Company more generally.
With regard to Directors selling treasury shares at a premium.
As at 14 June 2018 performance, the Shareholder return remained comfortably ahead of no shares were held by the Company in treasury.
the Benchmark over the last decade.
These authorities and powers provide the Directors with a degree of The Audit and Management Engagement Committee met in closed flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new session following the presentation and, in light of the long-term shares or the sale of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies investment performance of the Manager and the quality of the overall set out on page 10 or should any other favourable opportunities service provided, it concluded that in its opinion the continuing arise to the advantage of shareholders.
appointment of FCIB as Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Board ratified this The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use them to satisfy recommendation.
demand from participants in the F&C Savings Plans when they believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Companys AGM shareholders to do so.
Under no circumstances would the Directors The AGM will be held on Thursday 26 July 2018 at 12 noon at the use them to issue new shares unless the shares were trading at a Chartered Accountants Hall, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA.
The Notice of Meeting appears on pages 76 to 79, including a map of the venue.
The Lead Manager will give a presentation and Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Shareholders will be Resolution 15 able to meet the Directors and the Lead Manager informally over Resolution 15 authorises the Company to purchase up to a maximum refreshments afterwards.
of 8,953,000 ordinary shares equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital in the market at a minimum price of 25 pence Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury per share and a maximum price per share exclusive of expenses of not Resolutions 13, 14 and 16 more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Official List for the five business days immediately before the date of In addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders purchase, reflecting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the before allotting new shares or granting rights over shares for cash Listing Rules.
or selling shares out of treasury without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
In the event that the Companys shares return to a discount, the Directors intend to use this authority with the objective of keeping Resolutions 13, 14 and 16 are similar in content to the authorities the discount at no more than 5% in normal market conditions as and power given to the Directors at previous annual general well as enhancing the NAV per share for continuing shareholders.
Any shares that are purchased will either be cancelled or placed into treasury.
The authority will continue until the expiry of 15 months Resolution 13 gives the Directors the necessary authority to allot from the date of the passing of the resolution unless it is varied, securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,493,250 revoked or renewed prior to that by the Company in general meeting 5,973,000 ordinary shares, being equivalent to approximately 10% by special resolution.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such of the Companys current issued share capital calculated exclusive authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
of any treasury shares being held by the Company as at 14 June 2018, being the latest practicable date before the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The authority and power expires at the conclusion of 34 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Notice period for meetings Resolution 17 All proxy appointments should in any event be returned or lodged so The Act and the Companys articles of association provide that as to be received not later than 48 hours before the time appointed all general meetings other than annual general meetings can be for holding the AGM.
However, one of the requirements of the Shareholder Rights Directive is that all general meetings must be Form of direction and proportional voting held on 21 clear days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter If you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings Plans you will have notice period.
The Board is of the view that it is in the Companys received a form of direction for use at the AGM and you will also interests to have a shorter notice period which complies with the have the option of lodging your voting directions using the Internet.
provisions of the Act and the Companys articles allow all general The Manager operates a proportional voting arrangement, which is meetings other than an annual general meeting to be called on 14 explained on pages 32 and 33. clear days notice.
The passing of resolution 17 would constitute shareholders agreement for the purposes of the Shareholder Rights All voting directions should be submitted as soon as possible in Directive which agreement is required annually and would therefore accordance with the instructions on the form of direction and, in preserve the Companys ability to call general meetings other than any event, not later than 12 noon on 19 July 2018, so that the an annual general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
The Board nominee company can submit a form of proxy before the 48 hour would utilise this authority to provide flexibility when merited and period begins.
would not use it as a matter of routine.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
Voting recommendation Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the VOTING AGM are in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Form of proxy Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of each resolution, as is the intention of the Directors in respect of their proxy for use at the AGM.
You will also have the option of lodging own beneficial holdings.
your proxy vote using the internet.
For shares held through CREST, proxy appointments may be submitted via the CREST proxy voting system.
Please either complete, sign and return the form of proxy in the envelope provided as soon as possible in accordance with the instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy vote via the Internet By order of the Board or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be F&C Investment Business Limited, Secretary present at the AGM.
This will not preclude you from attending and 19 June 2018 voting in person if you wish to do so.
