Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Theres more to Ferguson Our business model is simple.
We source, distribute and sell specialist plumbing and heating products.
We provide customers with the right range of products at competitive prices with great availability and multiple order and delivery options.
These are the basics of our business.
Our customers return to us day after day for our expertise and relentless focus on service.
We listen to our customers challenges and help them deliver a wide variety of projects from small residential repair jobs to major new construction work.
We support them when they are bidding for work and help them manage their projects.
Customers trust in our people, processes, advice and commitment to help make their businesses thrive.
Fergusons enduring commitment to service is the foundation for long-term partnerships with our customers.
Read more over the following pages.
Examples of how we support our customers: After sales Pick-up Delivery Product Branch support options options information services Credit 24 7 secure access Call off options Technical data Product advice tobranches order book and rich content No hassle returns Emergency out Scheduled forward Multiple delivery of hours support Warranty support delivery dates locations Project-based billing One hour call check Same day delivery and collect service Specialist delivery e. g. crane trucks Bidding and Customised Showroom Sales Sourcing tendering solutions consultancy channels Project-specific Valve actuation Bespoke catalogue Inside sales Own brand choices tendering order service Fabrication E-commerce Exclusive distribution Take-off software Appliance Commercial Electronic Data Sourcing of installation services Value engineering water heaters Interchange non-stock items using expert Project management Pre-assembled kits Outside field product knowledge Design services sales support to enhance Call centres customer bids Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 01 More time Residential trade: Using technology to help Kevin Cohen Plumbing deliver better customer service Residential and commercial plumber Kevin Cohen was in search of a more efficient way of replenishing his fleet of trucks with the products his technicians needed.
Sara Ferschweiler, e-commerce specialist for Oregon, was able to identify his needs during a sales call and discussed a solution utilising acustomised product book with a barcode scanner for each of his 16 trucks.
Sara created a book for each truck which contained about 950 products, images and technical details, including barcodes, to make it as efficient aspossible for the team to replenish their inventory.
Today, each technician scans the material required throughout the day which goes through an approval process before being sent to Ferguson where the order is fulfilled.
Since implementing the new solution in May 2018, Kevin Cohen Plumbing has submitted half of all its product orders through Ferguson.
$560m US revenue from Will-Call, one hour reserve and collect service.
23% Percentage of US revenue generated from e-commerce.
02 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Image: Kevin Cohen, owner of Kevin Cohen Plumbing, using a scannable inventory book.
Location: Eugene, Oregon This book gives us the ability to order quality parts and supplies much more quickly, allowing us to provide the highest level of service our customers expect.
Were proud to have you as partners with KevinCohen Plumbing.
Kevin Cohen Owner, Kevin Cohen Plumbing Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 Image: Candace White, owner of the White House Collection and Jacob Wilson, Ferguson showroom consultant, discuss a current customer project.
Location: Portland, Oregon The service they provide is world class and I have a fantastic relationship with them that I really value.
They continually go out of their way to make my life easier.
Candace White Owner, The White House Collection 04 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 870 showroom consultants who work closely with the client and their architect contractor providing advice and project management support.
More advice Residential showroom: Providing a total solution for The White House Collection remodelling projects Candace White, who owns The White House Collection, a custom home design company, relies on Ferguson showroom consultant Jacob Wilson to advise her customers on product specifications for all their remodelling requirements.
Often working from architectural drawings, Jacob discusses available options with Candace and her customers, keeping in mind style, product design and customer budget.
Candace brings the majority of her customers to Fergusons large Portland showroom and has been working with us for over five years.
Here, customers can see and touch a wide range of alternatives in-situ from our kitchen, bathroom and lighting range so they can better visualise their projects.
Jacob produces acustomised colour catalogue for each customer with photographs, prices and product specifications to help finalise the designs.
Once product selection is agreed Jacob then ensures all aspects of the project are delivered, staying in touch with the various tradespeople to co-ordinate deliveries, ensuring specialist installation is done properly and resolving problems quickly if they arise.
$1.9bn US revenue generated through showrooms including: consultation, design, project management, sizing, sourcing, stock holding, two person white-glove delivery and installation.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 Image: The Whittle School & Studios More wins Commercial: Supporting Shapiro & Duncan and Superior Mechanical to win a vital bid Shapiro & Duncan and Superior Mechanical came to Ferguson for help on a high-end plumbing fixtures project for a large commercial school.
The Whittle School & Studios in Washington DC is a large and ambitious project which will eventually provide educational, recreational and residential space for over 2,500 students on a 14 acre site.
The school wanted to create a campus reflecting their belief that everything in a school is a lesson.
The joint bid therefore required more than standard, builder grade plumbing fixtures and the contractors needed help choosing high specification products and devising a delivery schedule based on the demanding construction timeline.
Originally over budget, the Ferguson team came up with various solutions to achieve the look the school required.
To achieve this, and to stay within the budget, the team changed the product mix adding in our own brand products from the Mirabelle range which were chosen as they are visually striking, highly durable and cost effective.
Our support enabled Shapiro &Duncan and Superior Mechanical to win the bid in a highly competitive process.
$8.0bn 48% of US revenue is generated from bidding and tendering work.
2,000 US outside sales associates support customers in bidding and tendering, project management and advice to make their businesses more successful.
06 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Image: Ferguson outside sales associate Dustin Johnson right with Michael Canter, fabrication manager, Shapiro & Duncan left.
Location: Washington, DC Ferguson helped us identify the areas where we could improve our bid.
Understanding our needs and having in-depth product knowledge meant we could make a competitive, and ultimately, winning bid.
Michael Canter Fabrication manager, Shapiro & Duncan Mechanical Contractors Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 More resources Industrial: Helping HollyFrontier minimise down-time for site turnarounds Our Industrial business is one of the largest suppliers of quality products and technical solutions to the industrial market in the USA.
We supply pipes, valves and fittings PVF and maintenance, repair and operations MRO products to a broad range of industries including industrial manufacturing, oil and gas, chemical, power, pulp and paper and mining.
In addition to the daily MRO requirements of our customer HollyFrontier Tulsa Refining LLC, a petroleum refinery based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the plant performs turnarounds periodically.
During this time, a portion of the plant shuts down between 30 and 60 days for maintenance and upgrades.
Our teams will be on-site during each turnaround stocked with most commonly used PVF and related material.
Supplying and supporting plant turnarounds differs from traditional service.
In the oil industry, refinery downtime can cost up to $200,000 an hour, soit is critical to our customers to limit that downtime as much as possible.
For HollyFrontier turnarounds, Ferguson associates will be on-site 24 7 for 45-to-60 days to support the turnarounds.
For example, the upcoming Tulsa plant turnaround in the Winter requires us to manage three staging areas with $1.7bn three jobsite trailers each, plus staged material to dispense to the various trades of non-stock items were during the turnaround.
supplied to customers HollyFrontier Tulsa Refining LLC, Petroleum Refining and Lubricants during 2017 18.
50% e-commerce penetration within our Industrial business the majority of which is electronic data interchange, an automated inventory replenishment system.
08 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Image: Scott Baber, turnaround superintendent, HollyFrontier right and Philip Martin, area sales manager, Ferguson left at the HollyFrontier oil refinery.
Location: Tulsa, Oklahoma The on-site support Ferguson provided was vital to the success of our turnaround.
With a 24 7 operation, their sales teams ability to secure material at any time of day or night was valuable.
They sourced those items, placed orders and made sure they were at the right place at the right time.
Scott Baber Turnaround superintendent, HollyFrontier Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Image: Mark Heilala, a Robert B.
Our Co. associate on a customer jobsite.
Location: Harwich, Massachusetts Ferguson really went above and beyond to help fix this potential disaster.
We needed the right parts as soon as possible and we dont believe any other supplier could have done what they did.
We couldnt have done it without them!
Our Co. 10 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 2,882 medium and heavy trucks in the US.
Some orders require specialist delivery vehicles to deliver large, heavy, cumbersome products for example, stake trucks.
More support Waterworks: Providing emergency support for Robert B.
When a sewer-main pipe broke in the middle of a snow storm that caused three million gallons of raw sewage to be dumped into Nantucket Harbor, an area of outstanding natural beauty, our Waterworks business was instrumental in the emergency response.
Our Co. the site and utility construction company hired to make the emergency repair, contacted us to help devise a plan.
The primary way to get to the island of Nantucket, 30 miles off the coast of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, is by ferry.
When our team was ready to send the materials to cover the break, ferries travelling to Nantucket had been cancelled due to the deep freeze.
The team drafted the Otis Air National Guard and used a Blackhawk Helicopter to fly members of the construction company and materials to the island.
During the weekend, our associates worked tirelessly to gather the required repair parts from our inventory, manufacturers and local Water Departments, exhausting all resources they had available.
It took another three days before an ice breaking barge could clear the way so the ferry could run and the remaining products were shipped over and the pipe fixed.
154 branches across the US can respond 24 7 to emergency situations like these.
We also have a 24 7 hotline for emergency replacement of commercial water heaters.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
