STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Independent Review Committee Report Terms of Reference The IRC operates under terms of reference prepared with input from its legal advisers and has been approved by the Board.
These authorise the IRC to review and progress all matters relating to or arising from the charitable donations made to the Charity by the Group, including: reviewing the initial discrepancies in the copy bank statements brought to the attention of the Board and determining the action and further review needed as a result of the explanations provided by the Charity: gaining assurance over the use of the Groups funds donated to the Charity including where possible the end recipients of the donations and the purposes for which the donations have been used.
The Group has made donations to the Charity over the last six years totalling US$110 million: Vitalii Lisovenko, Chairman reviewing the relationship and transactions between the Charity and Khimreaktiv LLC an entity connected with Rosava which in turn is controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago, the Chief Executive Officer and ultimate majority shareholder of the Group : determining whether any significant influence as defined under IAS 24 may exist between Ferrexpos CEO and the Charity: and considering any potential legal or regulatory exposures of the On 4 February 2019, Ferrexpo announced an independent review Group and assessing what claims if any the Group may have the Independent Review into matters relating to the Groups against third parties or other persons relating to the matters donations to a charity called Blooming Land which operates arising from the Groups relationship with the Charity.
through three sub-funds the Charity.
The IRC operates independently of the Groups CEO.
An Executive Blooming Land coordinated the Groups CSR programme on a Director will attend a meeting of the IRC only when formally national basis in Ukraine, alongside Ferrexpos local CSR requested to do so by the IRC, and in cases where the IRC programme which supports communities and individuals considers that the Executive Director can provide additional surrounding the mines.
information which is relevant to the IRCs decision making process.
The Independent Review is being conducted by a sub-committee Activity of the IRC of the Board IRC with assistance from external advisers.
The Since its formation, the IRC has met regularly.
The activities of IRC is chaired by Vitalii Lisovenko and its other members are Steve the IRC have included defining the scope of the Independent Lucas, Mary Reilly and Bert Nacken.
Review, appointing appropriately qualified independent forensic accountants BDO and legal counsel in the UK Herbert Smith Further detail on the background to the Groups relationship with Freehills and Ukraine Arzinger and Asters and reviewing interim the Charity is set out in Principal Risks, 3.2 Counterparty Risks on reports provided by the before mentioned advisers.
Additionally, page 45. the IRC through its advisors has conducted interviews with key Group personnel, reviewed key documents and approvals Steps Resulting in the Establishment of the IRC including the copy bank statements provided by the Charity The Board suspended donations to the Charity in May 2018 as a to Deloitte, and secured electronic documents for review and result of continued delays in receiving information surrounding the undertaken visits to some of the sites of the charitable events.
Charitys activities, which the Charity regarded as beyond the normal requirements expected of a Ukrainian charity, and whilst it awaited the outcome of a review into the 2017 audited financial statements of the Charity.
As part of the half year review, transactions between the Charitys sub-funds and Khimreaktiv LLC, a related party of the Groups Chief Executive Officer, were identified.
These were clarified and the funding flows were disclosed in the half year accounts.
For further information see Note 33 of the Financial Statements.
As part of the full year audit process, later in August 2018, a number of irregularities were reported to the Board including inconsistencies in copy bank statements provided by the Charity to the Groups auditors.
These inconsistencies were reviewed by the Committee of Independent Directors CID and the Board, however, the explanations provided by the Charity were considered incomplete and unsatisfactory and could not be independently verified.
Following an inability under local law, in the view of the Charity, to provide the original bank statements, the Independent Review was established in February 2019 led by the IRC.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Independent Review Committee Report The IRC has considered the relationship of the CEO and the Groups executive management with the Charity, including the CEOs business network, and concluded, based on the interim findings of the Independent Review to date and representations from the Chief Executive Officer, that neither the CEO nor the Groups executive management control or exercise significant influence over the Charity as defined under applicable accounting standards or under chapter 11 of the listing rules and as a result the Charity is neither a related party of the CEO nor of the Groups executive management.
The IRC has made progress in receiving explanations regarding the differences contained in the copy bank statements, together with explanations for other inconsistencies identified by BDO, which might provide credible explanations for some of the differences and inconsistencies.
However, the credibility of these explanations can only be assessed by access to certified bank statements.
As at the date of this report, the Company has not yet been provided access to these.
The IRC has also received third party evidence including governmental confirmations to explain some but not all of the possible discrepancies identified by BDO in the application of funds by the Charity.
The IRC is undertaking further work to corroborate this evidence and to evaluate those discrepancies.
At this stage, the IRC cannot conclude as to the ultimate use of all of the funds by the Charity, however, there are indications that some could have been misappropriated.
Further work is required before any final conclusions can be drawn.
Vitalii Lisovenko Chairman of the Independent Review Committee For further information See Chairmans Statement page 18, Principal Risks page 45, Responsible Business page 59, Corporate Governance Report page 63, Audit Committee Report page 71, and Note 7 page 121, Note 29 page 155, Note 33 page 161 and Note 34 page 161 to the financial statements.
