Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Accountability Directors Report other disclosures 2018, 8,807,827 ordinary shares of 1053 66 pence and 370,382 11227 563 Articles of Association pence were purchased for a combined consideration of 500 million The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special $675 million representing 3.63 per cent of the issued share capital resolution of the shareholders.
All shares purchased were held in Treasury.
Five shares held in Treasury were cancelled as part of Appointment and removal of Directors the share consolidation referred to in the Share capital and voting The Board may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the rights section on page 68.
Additional details concerning the Buyback limitations of the law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Programme can be found in note 26 to the consolidated financial The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, statements.
Details of shares that were acquired by the Company either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Under the Articles in previous financial years that were held or disposed of during the of Association any such Director shall hold office only until the next financial year ended 31 July 2018 are provided in note 26 to the Annual General Meeting AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
consolidated financial statements on page 135.
In addition, the Articles require that at each AGM at least one-third In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to of the current Directors must retire as Directors by rotation.
All those purchase its own ordinary shares and the Company seeks authority on Directors who have been in office for three years or more since their an annual basis to renew the Directors limited authority to purchase last appointment shall retire at that AGM.
Any Director may at any AGM the Companys ordinary shares in the market pursuant to Article 57 of retire from office and stand for re-election.
However, in accordance the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
It is intended that a special resolution with the provisions of the Code, the Board has agreed that all will be proposed at the 2018 AGM to grant authority for the Company continuing Directors will stand for annual election at the 2018 AGM.
to purchase up to approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the Authority to allot shares publication of the Notice of AGM.
The special resolution will set the At the 2017 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot new minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 18,147,602.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority to purchase intend to propose at the 2018 AGM to seek authority to allot and the Companys shares but will keep the matter under review.
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares up to The Directors will use this authority only after careful consideration, an aggregate nominal amount representing approximately two-thirds taking into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, of the Companys issued share capital excluding Treasury shares, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Company.
The authority will enable the Directors to continue to be able Notice of AGM, but of that amount only one-third of the Companys to respond promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider issued share capital excluding Treasury shares, calculated at the that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, may and would be in the best interests of the Company.
In accordance be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue Allotment with the Companys Articles of Association, the Company is allowed to Authority.
If approved, the Allotment Authority will expire at the hold shares purchased by it as Treasury shares that may be cancelled, conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share plans.
The Allotment Authority and Authority to Disapply Pre-Emption apply Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors will equally to shares to be held by the Company as Treasury shares and also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities for to the sale of Treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for cash or to sell or transfer shares out of Treasury other than pro rata these general authorities to be available to provide flexibility in the to existing shareholders, until the 2019 AGM Authority to Disapply management of the Companys capital resources.
This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of no more Capitalised interest than approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the The Group does not have capitalised interest of any significance on Notice of AGM as well as an additional 5 per cent, which may only its balance sheet.
be used for an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or which has taken Change of control significant agreements place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take announcement of the issue in accordance with the Pre-Emption effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover Groups Statement of Principles.
except for the $450 million US Private Placement Bonds issued on 30 November 2017, $800 million US Private Placement Bonds issued Authority to purchase shares on 1 September 2015, the 800 million multi-currency revolving At the 2017 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to purchase credit facility agreement dated 3 June 2015, the $290 million multithe Companys ordinary shares.
As a result of the share consolidation currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 2 December approved at the General Meeting on 23 May 2018, this authority 2016, the amended $600 million receivables facility agreement was renewed and the Directors were given authority to purchase up originally entered into on 31 July 2013 and the $281 million US to 23,479,800 of the Companys ordinary shares of 11 227 563 pence Private Placement Bonds issued on 16 November 2005 which could with such purchases being subject to minimum and maximum price become repayable following a relevant change of control.
This authority to purchase the Companys shares will no agreements between the Company and any Director that would expire at the 2018 AGM.
provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control following atakeover bid, except that provisions of On 3 October 2017, the Company announced a 500 million the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted $675 million share repurchase programme the Buyback under such plans to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys Programme.
The purpose of the Buyback Programme was to share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
reduce the issued capital of Ferguson plc.
The Buyback Programme Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become was completed during the year.
From 5 October 2017 to 14 June Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Accountability Directors Report other disclosures continued exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions to the maximum extent following a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company permitted by English law were granted to all Directors in office by not being an internal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules the then holding company now known as Wolseley Limited and concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
these remain in force as at the date of this report.
When Ferguson plc registered in Jersey became the new holding company, additional Conflicts of interest third-party indemnity provisions were granted by the Company, and it has granted indemnities in accordance with Jersey law to all Directors Processes and procedures are in place which require the Directors to and the Company Secretary appointed since November 2010. identify and declare actual or potential conflicts of interest, whether matter-specific or situational.
These notifications are made by a There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal Director prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
All Directors have action against the Directors and officers.
Neither the Companys a continuing duty to update any changes.
The Board may authorise indemnities nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent potential conflicts which can be limited in scope, in accordance that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
with the Companys Articles of Association.
These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
During the year, all conflict management Independent Auditors and audit information procedures were adhered to and operated efficiently.
In respect of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2018, the Directors in office at the date of this Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant The relevant disclosures concerning capitalised interest and dividend audit information of which Deloitte LLP Deloitte are unaware and waiver can be found on pages 67 and 96 of this Annual Report and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken Accounts respectively.
The remaining disclosures required by the as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to above Listing Rule are not applicable to the Company.
establish that Deloitte are aware of that information.
Deloitte is willing to act as auditors of the Company, and resolutions Employees concerning their appointment and the determination of their The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
our current and future success and places particular importance on keeping employees regularly informed about the Groups activities Political donations and financial performance and on matters affecting them individually No political donations or contributions to political parties under the and the business generally.
This can be through informal bulletins, Companies Act 2006 have been made during the financial year.
in-house publications and briefings, as well as via the Groups The Group policy is that no political donations be made or political intranet sites.
Group companies regularly engage with employees expenditure be incurred.
through consultation forums and the annual engagement survey.
Further information on how the Group engages with employees can Restrictions on transfer of shares be found on page 25.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the All employees are offered a range of benefits depending on their Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the local environment.
Where possible, they are encouraged to build Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying a stake in the Company through the ownership of shares through special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company participation in the Companys all-employee share plans.
is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting Employment policies rights with the exception of any awards granted under the Long Term Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people and we Incentive Plan 2015 to Executive Directors.
Such awards must be believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a held for a two-year period following vesting.
For more information on this, see pages 25 and42.
Share capital and voting rights The Group also has policies in place relating to the continuation of employment of, and appropriate retraining for, employees who On 11 June 2018, following a shareholder vote, the shares of become disabled, for giving full and fair consideration to applications Ferguson plc were consolidated on a 18 for 19 basis.
Details of the for employment by disabled persons, having regard to their particular authorised and issued share capital, together with any movements in attributes and abilities, and for the training, career development and the issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 26 to the promotion of disabled employees.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Going concern statement without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares The Groups principal objective when managing cash and debt is to or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights and safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for the restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine foreseeable future.
The Group retains sufficient resources to remain or as the Board shall determine.
Copies of the Companys Articles of in compliance with the financial covenant of its bank facilities with Association can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey, or by substantial headroom.
The Directors consider it appropriate to continue writing to the Group Company Secretary.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme in the USA for which Deutsche Bank Trust Indemnities and insurance Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are traded on the US incurred as a result of their office in accordance with its Articles of over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents one-tenth Association and to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
68 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Substantial shareholdings it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue As at 31 July 2018, the Company had received the following in business.
notifications on the dates specified below pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5 In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting and the Companys Articles of Association.
No further notifications Standard 1 requires that Directors: were received between 31 July 2018 and the date of this report.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Percentage of issued Date notification present information, including accounting policies, in a 1 Name of holder voting share capital received manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and BlackRock 9.64% 13 December 2013 understandable information: FIL Limited 4.95% 15 February 2010 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Norges Bank 3.61% 10 October 2017 requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 1.
As at the date of disclosure.
Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company may have changed.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue Further disclosures asagoing concern.
Further disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that found on the following pages of this Annual Report and Accounts the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law andare incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Page Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Details of the Companys proposed final dividend payment and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
fortheyear ended 31 July 2018 13 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, the corporate and financial information included on the Companys liquidity and cash flow risks 125 to 129 website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging 125 to 129 dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Viability statement 45 other jurisdictions.
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 43 The Directors of Ferguson plc as at the date of this Annual Report The management report for the year 1 to 69 and Accounts areas follows: Information concerning post-balance sheet events 139 Gareth Davis, Chairman Future developments within the Group 1 to 49 John Martin, Group Chief Executive Details of the Groups profit for the year ended 31 July 2018 30 Michael Powell, Group Chief Financial Officer Shares issued during the year 135 Kevin Murphy, Chief Executive Officer, USA Alan Murray, Senior Independent Director Directors responsibilities statement Tessa Bamford, Non Executive Director The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Darren Shapland, Non Executive Director Accounts and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Nadia Shouraboura, Non Executive Director law and regulations.
Jacqueline Simmonds, Non Executive Director Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Each Director confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in the management report includes a fair review of the development accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and performance of the business and the position of the Company Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are uncertainties that they face: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
balanced and understandable and provide the information In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and are required to: performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Directors Report, comprising pages 13 to 96 was approved by make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Board and signed on its behalf by: and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Graham Middlemiss Group Company Secretary 1 October 2018 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69
