Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 62 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Nikolay Goroshko Jason Keys Nikolay Kladiev Viktor Lotous General Director, FYM Chief Marketing Officer Chief Financial Officer, FPM Chief Operating Officer and Head of Managing Board, FPM Nikolay became Acting Jason has significant industry Nikolay spent several years Viktor became Chief Engineer in Group Chief Financial experience in the European as an audit manager with 1997 and General Director and Officer in April 2007, and and Asian iron ore markets.
He Ernst & Young and CFO of Chief Operating Officer in April Chief Commercial Officer in was previously global marketing a large Russian factory.
A graduate of Kryvyi Rih charge of the Groups Growth manager for Iron Ore at BHP Chartered Accountant UK : Mining and Ore Institute, and Projects in December 2007.
Billiton for five years, and for the Masters in International Economic of the Kiev National Economic A graduate of the Kiev National 12 years prior to that he held Relations from the Kiev National University, specialising in Finance.
Economic University, specialising senior sales and marketing roles Economic University.
within BHP Billiton Coal and Rio Tinto Coal and Iron Ore. Certified Professional Accountant: Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Western Australia.
Chris Mawe FCA Jim North Greg Nortje Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Executive Officer Jim was COO of London Mining Greg joined Ferrexpo in January For more information For more information PLC before joining Ferrexpo 2014.
He previously held a variety See page 60 for details See page 61 for details in November 2014.
He has of international Human Resource wide-ranging operational mining leadership positions with Anglo experience at a senior level American and BHP Billiton.
with Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Advanced management Mount Isa Mines in Africa, South qualifications from the University America and Australia covering of Stellenbosch Business School commodities including iron ore, and the Gordon Institute of coal, base metals and aluminium.
Business Science: Bachelor of Advanced Diploma in Metallurgy: Arts degree and postgraduate Degree in Business Administration.
Diploma in Education from the University of the Witwatersrand.
