Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 48 VIABILITY STATEMENT The principal risks include those that would The scenario analysis includes severe The Board monitors threaten the Groups business model, situations outside the normal course of future performance, liquidity or solvency.
business, such as a breakdown in the the Groups risk linkage between the movements of the Time Horizon iron ore price with other commodity management and The Board has reviewed the long-term prices, notably the oil price which forms a prospects of the business, which remain significant component of the Groups cost internal control systems aligned with Ferrexpos life of base or an appreciation of the Ukrainian mineassumptions.
Hryvnia when the iron ore price is weak.
on an ongoing basis, and For the purposes of assessing the Mitigating actions include a reduction or confirms that during the Groups viability in the medium term, the cancellation of discretionary expenditure Directors have chosen a five-year time such as capital investment, repairs year it carried out a period given the long-life nature of mining and maintenance, dividends or other assets, including the period required operating costs, adjusting capital thorough assessment of to invest in such assets and taking into allocation, reducing working capital account the cash flows generated by requirements, altering mining schedules the principal risks facing those assets, as well as the cyclical and accessing additional funding.
nature of the commodities industry.
the Group, their potential As such, a five-year time period was The Directors take comfort in the Groups considered an appropriate length for historical cash generation ability, particularly impact and the the Boards strategic planning period.
in 2015 and 2016 at a time when the iron ore price was trading at a cyclical low.
mitigating strategies in Stress Testing Since 1 January 2016, the Group has place, as described on In determining the viability of the business, reduced its net financial indebtedness the Directors have stress tested the by over US$500 million and it currently pages 38 to 47. individual risks and combination of risks has a strong financial profile.
that could materially impact the future viability of the business.
Viability Statement Based on the results of this analysis, the The Group is primarily exposed to changes Directors have a reasonable expectation in global iron ore prices the 65% Fe that the Group will be able to continue to iron ore fines CFR China price and the operate and meet its liabilities as they fall pellet premium and cost inflation.
Based due over the five-year period of on 2019 expected production volumes thisassessment.
of approximately 10.6 million tonnes, a US$5 per tonne fall in the Groups Prospects received price would, if not mitigated, The Directors, having assessed the reduce the Groups underlying EBITDA principal risks related to the Groups by US$5 per tonne.
While a general business model, believe the long-term production cost increase of 10% would prospects of the Group remain sound.
decrease Group underlying EBITDA by Principally this is due to Ferrexpos US$4.8 per tonne and a 5% decrease competitive cost position on the iron ore in production volumes would decrease cost curve, its high quality product that underlying EBITDA by US$2.6 per tonne.
commands a price premium in a niche market with high barriers to entry, a first Other stress test scenarios included class customer portfolio, a well invested operational incidents that have a asset base and favourable industry significant impact on production volumes, dynamics supporting pellet consumption.
a deterioration in the Groups longterm cost position on the industry cost curve or other operating constraints due to Ukrainian country risk.
