11 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of Cautious a focus on managing downside risk creates a the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers strong foundation for long term outperformance.
Review on pages 2 to 8 also form part of the Strategic Report.
The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively Business and Status valued companies which show good long term structural growth The Company carries on business as an investment company prospects and which he believes can grow their dividends over and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by the next few years, as he believes these are likely to outperform HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the over time.
Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will for the following main characteristics: satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
Positive fundamentals structural growth, disciplined use of The Company is registered as an investment company under capital, proven business models: Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a Cash generative often a good indication of future close company and has no employees.
dividend growth: Objective Strong balance sheet ensures ability to grow dividends is Shareholders approved the change to the Companys objective not jeopardised: and at the AGM on 14 May 2018 from that of achieving long term capital growth principally from the stockmarkets of continental Attractive valuation good quality at a reasonable price.
Europe to: The Portfolio Manager draws upon the extensive research The Company aims to achieve long term growth in both generated by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when capital and income by predominantly investing in equities researching companies.
This first hand research is fundamental to and their related securities of continental European seeking success stories of the future.
A great deal of importance is companies.
placed on attending company meetings.
Being a bottom-up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to generate outperformance Strategy through company selection, on a three to five year investment In order to achieve this objective, the Company operates as an horizon, rather than through sector or country positions.
investment company and has an actively managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of continental European equities.
Investment Policy As an investment company it is able to gear the portfolio and the The Company invests predominantly in continental European Board takes the view that long term returns for shareholders can companies with a view to achieving long term growth in both be enhanced by the use of gearing in a carefully considered and capital and income for shareholders.
The portfolio is selected monitored way.
by the Investment Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual situations and with As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the a typical focus on larger companies which show prospects for management of the portfolio and certain other services to sustainable long term dividend growth.
The Portfolio Manager aims to achieve a total return overall exposure to individual countries and industry sectors is on the Companys net assets over the longer term in excess of monitored, the portfolio is not restricted in terms of size, industry, the equivalent return on the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, or geographical split, although certain investment restrictions the Companys Benchmark Index.
The stock selection approach apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving this objective.
The Board takes the view that Investment Restrictions investing in equities is a long term process.
A minimum of 80 per cent of gross assets will be invested in companies from countries which are included in the The change in the Companys objective on 14 May 2018 did not Benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
affect the strategy and principal activity of the Company and these have remained unchanged throughout the year ended A maximum of: 31December 2018. a 20 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of European countries which are not included in the Investment Management Philosophy, Style and Process Companys Benchmark Index.
This will include investing in The Portfolio Managers three principles for investing in equities UK companies, defined as companies in the FTSE All-Share are: Index: and Bottom up stock selection with a focus on dividend growth: Eur opean country for the purposes of this paragraph means a country included within the FTSE All-World Europe Index and non-European is to be Long term a long term view improves performance and construed accordingly.
reduces costs: and INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 12 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued b 5 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of nonThe Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and European countries where those stocks have some exposure sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts to, or connection with Europe.
Any investments in this are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported category will count towards the 20 per cent maximum limit in regularly to the Board.
The limits are: paragraph a above.
The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets including as a result of borrowing and the use of derivatives, may be invested in the aggregate of: but excluding hedging, will not exceed 130 per cent of total net assets a gearing level of 30 per cent at the time at a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and which any derivative contract is entered into or a security acquired.
b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to 20per cent or more of the equity capital of any listed The aggregate exposure of the Company under short company.
derivatives, excluding hedges and covered call options, will not exceed 10 per cent of total net assets at the time at The Company will not invest more than 10 per cent of gross which any derivative contract is entered into.
assets in any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered A maximum of 5 per cent of the Companys gross assets may call options, being the notional exposure of the calls, will be held in unquoted securities in aggregate at any onetime.
not exceed 20 per cent of total net assets at the time at which any derivative is entered into.
The notional exposure of The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held covered call options is the number of contracts written x the by the Company will be 25 per cent of the Companys notional contract size x the market value of the underlying total net assets, but this limit will not include any cash or share price.
cash equivalent paid as collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the cash position will normally be The majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be much lower.
through direct investment, not through derivatives.
In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies and groups will The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the up to 10 per cent of the Companys total net assets.
securities to which any derivative is providing exposure.
The Board reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way Gearing of currency.
The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or may be invested in the securities of other investment through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected companies including listed investment trusts.
The effect of gearing is to magnify the consequence of market movements on the portfolio and if Derivative Instruments the portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including indexbut if it falls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board linked notes, futures, contracts for difference CFDs, covered is responsible for the order of magnitude of gearing in the call options, put options and other equity-related derivative Company while the Investment Manager decides gearing on instruments on a limited basis as a tool to meet the investment a day-to-day basis within a range set by the Board.
Gearing is objective of the Company.
They are used principally in the reviewed at each Board meeting.
following ways: Performance As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
The The Companys performance for the year ended 31 December Company would enter into long CFDs which would achieve 2018, including a summary of the years activities and indications an equivalent effect to buying an asset financed by bank of trends and factors that may impact the future performance of borrowing but often at lower financing costs.
the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 to 8.
The Portfolio Listing, the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Attribution Analysis, the Ten To hedge equity market risks where suitable protection can Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts are set out be purchased to limit the downside of a falling market at a on pages 16 to 23. reasonable cost.
Results and Dividends To enhance the investment returns by taking short exposures The Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are on stocks that the Investment Manager considers to be overset out in the Income Statement on page 44.
was 6.94 pence and the capital loss was 18.96 pence, giving a total loss of 12.02 pence per ordinary share.
To enhance returns through writing covered call options and writing put options.
13 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.28 pence per In addition to these KPIs, the Board regularly reviews the share for the year ended 31 December 2018 to be paid on Companys performance against its peer group of investment 17 May 2019 to shareholders who appear on the register as companies.
Long term performance is also monitored and the at the close of business on 29 March 2019 ex-dividend date Ten Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts on 28 March 2019.
This includes 1.79 pence per share as a result pages 21 to 23 show this information.
of the additional revenue from the change in the allocation of management fees and finance costs see details in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management Chairmans Statement on page 3.
As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process Key Performance Indicators for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the and uncertainties faced by the Company, including those that performance of the Company and which are comparable to would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency those reported by other investment companies are set out below.
The Board, with the assistance of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager FIL Investment Services UK Limited the Manager, has developed a risk matrix which, as part of Year ended Year ended the risk management and internal controls process, identifies 31 December 31 December the key risks that the Company faces.
The risks identified are 2018 2017 placed on the Companys risk matrix and graded appropriately.
% % This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed regularly in the form NAV per Ordinary Share total 1 of comprehensive reports considered by the Audit Committee.
return -4.8 20.0 The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is 1 Share Price total return -6.8 26.2 willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
FTSE World Europe ex UK Index The Manager also has responsibility for risk management for the total return -9.5 17.5 Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the Discount to NAV 10.7 8.6 principal risks and uncertainties and to ensure that the Board can continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
2 Ongoing Charges 0.88 0.93 The Board considers the following as the principal risks and 1 Alternative performance measures.
See Note 20 on page 64. uncertainties faced by the Company.
There have been no 2 The Board regularly considers the costs of running the Company to ensure they changes to these since the prior year except for the addition of are reasonable and competitive.
Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore Market risk market related such as market downturn, interest rate movements and exchange rate movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
Risks to which the Company is exposed in the market risk category are included in Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 57 to 62 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires Performance risk the application of risk such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The emphasis is on long term performance as the Company may experience volatility of performance in the shorter term.
There is a risk that the Manager has an inadequate succession plan for key individuals, Key person risk particularly with investment trust expertise.
The loss of the Portfolio Manager or key individuals could lead to potential performance, operational or regulatory issues.
The Manager identifies key dependencies which are then addressed through succession plans.
Fidelity has succession plans in place for portfolio managers and these are discussed regularly with the Board.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 14 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The Company may be impacted by economic and political risks, including from the UKs Economic and departure from the European Union Brexit.
The Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the political risk Portfolio Managers Review on pages 7 and 8 provides more detail.
The Board regularly reviews economic and political risks.
The price of the Companys shares and its discount to NAV are factors which are not within the Discount control risk Companys total control.
The Board continues to adopt an active discount management policy.
Some short term influence over the discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices within the parameters set by the Board.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities or to use CFDs Gearing risk to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that the Portfolio Manager may fail to use gearing effectively, resulting in a failure to outperform in a rising market or to underperform in a falling market.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing is inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company currently has no bank loans and gears through the use of long CFDs which provide greater flexibility and are significantly cheaper than bank loans.
The Board regularly considers the level of gearing and gearing risk and sets limits within which the Manager must operate.
Derivative instruments are used to provide both protection and enhancement of investment Derivatives risk returns.
There is a risk that the use of derivatives may lead to a higher volatility in the NAV and the share price than might otherwise be the case.
The Board has put in place policies and limits to control the Companys use of derivatives and exposures.
These are monitored on a daily basis by the Managers Compliance team and regular reports are provided to the Board.
Further details on derivatives risk is included in Note 17 on pages 57 to 62.
The risk from cybercrime is significant as it continues to be subject to emerging threats.
Cybercrime risk Cybercrime threats evolve rapidly and consequently the risk is regularly re-assessed and the Board receives regular updates from the Manager in respect of the type and possible scale of cyberattacks.
The Managers technology team has developed a number of initiatives and controls in order to provide enhanced mitigating protection to this ever increasing threat.
are all subject to a risk-based programme of internal audits by Other risks facing the Company include: the Manager.
In addition, service providers own internal control Tax and Regulatory Risks reports are received by the Board on an annual basis and any There is a risk to the Company of not complying with tax and concerns are investigated.
Continuation Vote A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could A continuation vote takes place every two years.
There is a risk lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company that shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation of the being subject to tax on capital gains.
Company during periods when performance of the Companys NAV and share price is poor.
At the Companys AGM held on The Board monitors tax and regulatory changes at each Board 15 May 2017, 99.84% of shareholders voted in favour of the meeting and through active engagement with regulators and continuation of the Company.
The next continuation vote will take trade bodies by the Manager.
place at this years AGM on 13 May 2019.
Operational Risks Viability Statement The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects It is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers of the Company over a longer period than the twelve month control systems and those of its service providers with regard period required by the Going Concern basis.
The Company to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, is an investment trust with the objective of achieving long term accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and growth in both capital and income.
The Board considers long legal requirements.
The Registrar, Custodian and Depositary term to be at least five years and accordingly, the Directors 15 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC believe that five years is an appropriate investment horizon The Fidelity group of companies including the Manager, to assess the viability of the Company, although the life of the FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments Company is not intended to be limited to this or any other period.
International encourages Environmental, Social and Governance ESG factors in its investment decision making process.
It has In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Board has considered the following: Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual report detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in prevailing market conditions: The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it The Company's NAV and share price performance: has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
As an investment company, the Company does not provide The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company goods and services in the normal course of business and has no and their potential impact: customers.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Company is The future demand for the Companys shares: not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Companys share price discount to the NAV: The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
The level of income generated by the Company: and Future income and expenditure forecasts.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas The Companys performance has been strong for the five year or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable reporting period to 31 December 2018, with a NAV total return of carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and 50.8%, a share price total return of 50.4% and a Benchmark Index FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon total return of 34.4%.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by investment policy and considers whether it remains appropriate.
Board has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Socially Responsible Investment as they fall due over the next five years based on the following The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial considerations: returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good The Managers compliance with the Companys investment business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance objective and policy, its investment strategy and asset investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes allocation: social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in The portfolio mainly comprises readily realisable securities the Managers view, these have a material impact on either which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary: investment risk or return.
The Boards discount management policy: and Corporate Engagement The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs and take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which income which are considered reasonable in comparison to it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their the Companys total assets.
It delegates the responsibility for corporate In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability engagement and shareholder voting to the Manager who to operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going updates the Board on any issues and activities.
These activities Concern Statement in the Directors Report on page 25.
The are reviewed regularly by the Managers corporate governance Company is also subject to a continuation vote at the AGM team.
Further details of the Managers policy on corporate on 13May 2019 and based on the factors mentioned above, engagement can be found at www.
the Going Concern Statement on page 25 and the Companys performance, the Board has a reasonable expectation that this Future Developments vote will be approved.
Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are common to many investment companies together with the impact Board Diversity of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect the Companys The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of future development, performance and position are set out in the objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
31December 2018, there were two female and three male Directors on the Board.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Employee, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues Secretary The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non- 14 March 2019 executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to make in respect of employees.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
