05 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Portfolio Managers Review Question What has the market environment been like in the year under review?
Answer The Chinese market had a strong bull run from early 2016 through to early 2018 supported by solid earnings growth on theback of a clear pick-up in economic growth.
Supply-side reform cut excess capacity in troubled sectors like steel, leading to better pricing, in turn feeding through into improved earnings.
There were also clear policy shifts aimed at reining in unbridled credit growth, particularly in so-called shadow banking which Iview as positive for the long-term health of the financial system.
Ongoing strength in consumption trends also supported the market.
Leading the pack were the larger internet stocks like Alibaba and Tencent, both of which enjoyed exceptional growth, with able and innovative management teams capitalising on rapid structural change in the economy.
A marked pick-up in flows through Stock Connect, the trading scheme linking Shanghai and Shenzhen with Hong Kong, also served to boost markets.
With valuations becoming stretched in some parts of the market, Itook steps to reduce the portfolios level of net gearing.
Towards the end of the reporting period we saw increased volatility and in February, a market correction, against a backdrop of growing concerns over trade wars with the US.
More recently, net gearing Ultimately stock selection drives has started to move up reflecting increased investment in areas that in my view had been unduly punished.
performance and the portfolio has benefited from strong Question contributions from holdings such And how has the Company performed as Yihai, Kingdee International over this period?
Answer Over the period under review, the Companys NAV per share was up 22.2% in UK sterling terms and the share price was up by 23.6%, but slightly lagged the MSCI China Index which returned 23.8% in part due to the relative underperformance of the small and mid-cap section of the market on which I focus as shown in the chart on the following page.
With the valuation gap now relatively wide in a historic context, I feel positive about the potential for small-caps to start closing the performance gap going forward.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 06 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Portfolio Managers Review continued A challenging year for Chinese smaller companies Over 90% of the portfolios underlying revenue streams come from China including Hong Kong and Macau.
Revenues from the US 160 160 make up only around 1% of the portfolios total revenues.
150 150 That said, growth in global trade has been a major factor in global growth for decades and if this trend is truly set to reverse 140 140 then it will have implications for growth in all countries.
I take the 130 130 view that this scenario is unlikely given the obvious drawbacks for all players.
120 120 One concern for me is how China might react to the US and 110 110 whether it too might increase tariffs.
Ultimately this could push up 100 100 input costs for Chinese companies, which will be passed on to consumers or eat into profits, neither of which is a good outcome 90 90 for investors.
This is something we continue to analyse for the Jul Sep Apr May Jun Aug Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar companies in the portfolio.
2017 2018 MSCI China Index MSCI China Small Cap Index Question Source: Datastream.
The inclusion of A-shares in the Ultimately stock selection drives performance and the portfolio Benchmark Index has received a lot of has benefited from strong contributions from holdings such as Yihai a hot pot seasonings and sauce producer, Kingdee coverage.
What are your thoughts on this?
International Software an enterprise management and e-commerce software company and Noah Holdings a wealth Answer and asset management company.
Tarena professional Without a doubt A-share inclusion is a positive step towards education services, Clear Media a media company and CT the opening up of Chinas capital markets.
Not only does it Environmental an environmental protection company conversely, acknowledge the considerable development in the countrys equity were among the names that weighed on returns over the period.
markets, but it also puts China firmly on the radar for investors.
Question I have had significant exposure to the A share market for years and believe it will continue to provide a fertile hunting ground for Have there been any major changes to stock-pickers like me.
The market is under-researched despite a wide range of compelling opportunities.
That said, one needs to your strategy?
be aware that it is relatively volatile with a significant portion of the market driven by retail investors.
Answer Despite a small cap bias in the portfolio, of greatest interest to me No, the portfolios main focus continues to be on companies likely at the moment are the larger cap A-shares which often seem out to benefit from the structural rise of consumption in China.
Ways of of favour with the standard domestic Chinese investor, who tends getting exposure to this theme remain varied and include direct to be attracted by the very high growth blue-sky businesses for consumption, consumption via the internet, as well as areas of future which valuations are often excessive.
In general, I find the relative increasingly affluent consumer focus, like healthcare and services.
valuation of the larger-cap names far more attractive.
It is this part of the economy often dubbed New China that is driving the change in the countrys growth engine as China takes Question its next step of development.
What about the unlisted positions in the I believe this trend will grow in importance as the government attempts to reduce investment spending as a source of growth.
The future of trade as a growth driver will inevitably come underincreased scrutiny amid heightening trade war tension Answer withthe US.
One unlisted position was added during the reporting period Question resulting in a total of four unlisted positions in the portfolio.
Jiguang is a leading app developer service provider and big How have President Trumps proposed data platform in China which as at the end of 2017, served over 707,000 apps in China and worked with 300,000 developers, trade tariffs impacted the portfolio?
holding a dominant position in the App Push Notification Service segment in China.
Answer Jiguang should benefit from the fast-growing mobile software To date there has been no direct impact on the Company.
It is as a service and big data application market.
It also enjoys first worth emphasizing that the portfolios holdings are chiefly related mover advantage in this field, with its depth and unique data to Chinas domestic structural growth in areas like consumption.
We have seen the value of this company double after 07 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC a new round of external funding.
Our analysts believe that there Lower levels of gearing in the period under review is a good chance Jiguang will IPO within the next 12 months.
130% 500 On the other unlisted holdings, the position in China Internet Plus formerly Meituan an online platform for a range of 126% 450 services including food delivery was revalued following market transactions at significantly higher valuations.
122% 400 Didi, Chinas dominant player in ride-sharing, has also seen lots 118% 350 of news flow due to new funding deals with companies such as Softbank.
300 114% Question 250 110% 200 106% What have been the major changes to the portfolio over the period?
Answer Total Net Market Exposure of Securities Derivatives MSCI China Index I have been increasing my allocation to healthcare, especially pharmaceutical distributors such as Sinopharm and China Resources Pharmaceutical.
Regulations have changed in China Question designed to streamline distribution.
While this has been disruptive for the market it will ultimately drive industry consolidation and it will be the strongest players, with the broadest networks that will What is your outlook for the next survive and ultimately come out even stronger.
Elsewhere in the sector I have been looking at private health as I see significant government appetite for shifting the financial burden Answer of the healthcare system away from the state.
I have been increasing my allocation to China Resources Phoenix Healthcare.
I remain highly encouraged by the long-term prospects for The portfolio has also seen an increase in financials over the the Chinese equity market.
The secular drivers of growing period.
This is largely due to increasing life insurance exposure consumption, rising wealth and technological change remain as through China Life Insurance and China Pacific Insurance.
As people get wealthier they inevitably look to savings and Challenges remain with the debt growth still outpacing insurance products to protect and grow their wealth.
China is at a overall growth in the economy.
While the Chinese government very early stage in life insurance and this market offers significant increasingly appears to be taking steps to tackle this situation it growth potential.
The insurance sector has lagged the market is essential that it continues to make progress, implementing an due to policies limiting growth in more savings-type products.
This effective package of reforms in areas such as shadow banking.
I has created buying opportunities and the shift to more protectionexpect the pace of economic growth to slow due to the impact of type products will ultimately create more value for the companies.
reform and efforts to slow credit growth.
Conversely, I have been taking profits from the automobile sector, especially Brilliance, which has a joint venture with BMW.
The sector However, this is less of an issue for companies benefiting from has seen strong growth, but I see a cyclical slowdown ahead.
the structural growth trends discussed above.
In both the public and private markets, I continue to see activity with companies Question displaying creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship to capitalise on these shifts.
I remain confident in the very rich Can you explain how gearing has opportunity the Chinese market continues to afford me as a stock picker and continue to be personally invested in the Company.
changed over the reporting period?
Dale Nicholls Answer Portfolio Manager As illustrated in the following chart, I have reduced gearing 11 June 2018 over the year as markets have fallen.
I focus on the net market exposure of securities and derivatives.
This has generally been coming down over the year as the market has rallied.
This is an outcome of profit taking from some of my long positions which have rallied and adding more single stock and Index option shorts as the markets have gone up.
Volatility had fallen over the year leading to options being relatively cheaply priced.
I remain positive, however, given the long-term investment opportunities in the market.
Mar 14 Jun 14 Sep 14 Dec 14 Mar 15 Jun 15 Sep 15 Dec 15 Mar 16 Jun 16 Sep 16 Dec 16 Mar 17 Jun 17 Sep 17 Dec 17 Mar 18 Net Returns, UK sterling terms INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
