25 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the Directors and Officers Liability Insurance audited Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended In addition to the benefits under the Managers global Directors 31 December 2018. and Officers liability insurance arrangements, the Company maintains additional insurance cover for its Directors under its The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. public limited company on 16 August 1991 under the registered Going Concern Statement number 2638812 and was launched as an investment trust on The Directors have considered the Companys investment 5November 1991. objective, risk management policies, liquidity risk, credit risk, capital management policies and procedures, the nature of its Management Company portfolio being mainly securities which are readily realisable FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL is the Companys and its expenditure and cash flow projections and have appointed Alternative Investment Fund Manager the concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue AIFM Manager.
FISL, as the Manager, has delegated the to adopt the going concern basis for at least twelve months from portfolio management of assets and the role of the company the date of this Annual Report.
The prospects of the Company secretary to FIL Investments International the Investment over a period longer than twelve months can be found in the Manager.
Viability Statement on pages 14 and 15.
The Company is also subject to a continuation vote at this years AGM on 13 May 2019 The Alternative Investment Fund Management and Secretarial and based on the factors mentioned above and in the Viability Services Agreement the Management Agreement will Statement on pages 14 and 15, as well as the Companys continue unless and until terminated by either party giving to performance, the Board has a reasonable expectation that this the other not less than six months notice in writing.
However, vote will be approved.
it may be terminated without compensation if the Company is liquidated, pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles Auditors Appointment of Association of the Company.
The Management Agreement A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the may also be terminated forthwith as a result of a material Company will be proposed at the AGM on 13 May 2019. breach of the Management Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may Disclosure of Information to the Companys Auditor terminate the Management Agreement by sixty days notice if the As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited.
Director in office as at the date of this report confirms that: FIL Limited has no beneficial interest in the shares of the a so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Company 2017: same.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and b each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have The Board reviews the Management Agreement at least annually been taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of and details are included in the Corporate Governance Statement any audit information, and to establish that the Companys on page 30.
Auditor is aware of that information.
Fee Arrangements for the quarter to 31 March 2018 Corporate Governance For the three months to 31 March 2018, the fee for investment The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of this report, management services to the Company was a quarter of the and can be found on pages 28 to 31. annual fee rate of 0.85 per cent of the Companys net assets excluding the value of any investment in any fund which is Registrar, Custodian and Depositary Arrangements managed by the Manager.
There was no additional company The Company has appointed Link Asset Services as its Registrar secretarial fee.
to manage the Companys share register, JPMorgan Chase Bank as its Custodian, which is primarily responsible for safeguarding Revised Fee Arrangement from 1 April 2018 the Companys assets, and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its For the period beginning 1 April 2018, fees were renegotiated Depositary, which is primarily responsible for oversight of the with the Manager and the Board agreed a new tiered fee custody of investment funds and the protection of investors structure.
The previous annual fee rate of 0.85 per cent will interests.
Fees paid to these service providers are disclosed in apply to the first 400 million of the Companys net assets and Note 5 on page 51. a lower rate of 0.75 per cent will apply to net assets in excess of 400 million.
There continues to be no additional company Share Capital secretarial fee.
The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each which are fully listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board As at 31 December 2018, the issued share capital of the All Directors served on the Board throughout the year ended Company was 416,447,910 ordinary shares 2017: 416,447,910 31 December 2018 and up to the date of this report.
description of all serving Directors is shown on page 24 and Shares in Treasury do not have voting rights, therefore, the total indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 26 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Directors Report continued Premium Discount Management: Enhancing Shareholder Value An analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2018 is detailed The Board recognises the importance of the relationship between in the table below.
the Companys share price and the NAV per share and monitors this closely.
It seeks authority from shareholders each year to % of voting issue shares at a premium or to repurchase shares at a discount Shareholders as at 31 December 2018 share capital to the NAV, either for cancellation or holding in Treasury.
The Board will exercise these authorities if deemed to be in the best Private Investors 69.15 interests of shareholders at the time.
Details of the Boards new Mutual Funds 24.10 discount management policy as of this year can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 3.
Insurance Funds 3.24 Pension Funds 3.07 Share Issues No ordinary shares were issued during the year to 31 December Trading 0.44 2018 2017: nil and none have been issued since the year end and as at the date of this report.
Total 100.00 Includes Fidelity Platform Investors 17.08%.
The authorities to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights expire at the AGM on 13 May 2019 and therefore resolutions to Additional Information required in the Directors Report renew these authorities will be put to shareholders at this AGM.
Information on proposed dividends, financial instruments and greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Strategic Report on Share Repurchases pages 11 to 15.
During the year to 31 December 2018, the Company repurchased 3,029,351 ordinary shares for holding in Treasury 2017: 150,000.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING No shares have been repurchased since the year end and as at the date of this report.
THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
The authority to repurchase ordinary shares expires at the AGM on 13 May 2019 and a resolution to renew the authority to If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, purchase shares, either for cancellation or to buy into Treasury, you should seek your own personal financial advice from will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Substantial Share Interests Act 2000.
As at 31 December 2018 and 28 February 2019, notification had been received that the shareholders listed in the table below Fidelity Platform Investors held more than 3% of the voting share capital of the Company.
If you hold your shares in the Company through the Fidelity platform, you have the right to attend the Companys AGM and 31 December 28 February vote on the proposed resolutions.
For the forthcoming AGM and Shareholders 2018 2019 future AGMs, the voting process will take place online.
Historically, you would have received a Form of Direction and an Attendance Fidelity Platform Investors 17.08 16.97 Card with instructions on how to vote in the post.
Fidelity will no longer be providing paper forms of direction.
All Fidelity Platform Wells Capital Management 8.39 8.60 Investors will receive a letter setting out the voting process.
1607 Capital Partners 7.89 7.94 Paperless Proxy Voting Rathbones 4.50 4.42 Link Asset Services, the Registrar, will also be providing an online Quilter Cheviot Investment process for voting on the resolutions to be proposed at the Management 3.88 3.86 Companys AGM.
Details of how this will work are included in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on pages 66 and 67.
There is Hargreaves Lansdown 3.55 3.55 an option to contact the Registrar to receive a paper proxy form Brewin Dolphin 3.22 3.15 should this be preferred or required.
If you have sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of all your shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with any accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
27 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC At the AGM on 13 May 2019, resolutions will be proposed Recommendation: The Board considers that each of relating to the items of business set out in the Notice of Meeting the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the on pages 65 and 66, including the items of special business Company and is in the best interests of the Company and summarised below.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they Authority to Allot Shares intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Resolution 11 is an ordinary resolution and provides the Directors with a general authority to allot securities in the Company up By Order of the Board to an aggregate nominal value of 520,560.
If passed, this FIL Investments International resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of Secretary 20,822,395 ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% 14 March 2019 of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2019, and to impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
The Directors would not intend to use this power unless they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Any shares issued would be at NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
Authority to Disapply Pre-emption Rights Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for further specific shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 520,560 including Treasury shares approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 14 March 2019 and equivalent to 20,822,395 ordinary shares.
Authority to Repurchase Shares Resolution 13 is a special resolution which renews the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% 61,784,706 of the ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on 14 March 2019, either for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury shares, at the determination of the Directors.
Once shares are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for cash or by cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be made at the discretion of the Directors and within guidelines set from time to time by them in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share.
Continuation Vote Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution regarding the continuation of the Company as an investment trust for a further two years.
The Directors expect this continuation vote to be passed.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
