10 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of The Portfolio Manager has identified the growth of the middle the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers class and a refocusing on Chinas economy towards domestic Review on pages 2 to 7 form part of the Strategic Report.
consumption as key drivers of its economy and stock market in the coming years: he therefore focuses on those products and Business and Status services that cater for this growth within China.
The Company carries on business as an investment company and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by Investment Policy HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to of securities issued by companies listed in China and Chinese meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that companies listed on other stock exchanges.
The Company may the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will also obtain exposure to other listed companies which have satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
The Company is registered as an investment company under The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity close company and it has no employees.
related securities, forward transactions and other interests including derivative instruments.
Forward transactions and Objective derivatives, including futures, options and contracts for difference, The Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth may be used to enhance portfolio performance as well as for from an actively managed portfolio made up primarily of efficient portfolio management and hedging.
The Companys securities issued by companies listed in China and Chinese interest in any single investment will not, on acquisition, exceed companies listed elsewhere.
The Company may also invest in 15% of the portfolio value.
listed companies with significant interests in China.
The Investment Managers are not required to ensure that Strategy the Companys cash resources are fully invested at all times.
In order to achieve the objective, the Company operates as an Accordingly, there may be times when the Company holds cash investment company which has an actively managed portfolio or money market instruments pending investment.
As an investment company, it is able to gear the portfolio and the Board takes the view that long-term returns The Company may invest in China A Shares both directly for shareholders can be enhanced by the use of gearing in a through the Investment Managers Qualified Foreign Institutional carefully considered and monitored way.
Investor QFII license and indirectly through third parties who have a QFII facility.
As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management of the portfolio and certain other services.
During the year the Company invested in equity linked notes, The Portfolio Manager aims to achieve a total return on the futures, put options and long and short contracts for difference Companys net assets over the longer-term in excess of the and utilised the QFII licence of the Investment Manager.
equivalent return on the MSCI China Index the Benchmark Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
The stock selection approach Unlisted securities adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited The Company is permitted to invest up to 10% of Gross Assets to achieving the objective.
The Board recognises that investing in in unlisted securities which carry on business, or have significant equities is a long-term process and that the Companys returns interests, in China.
will vary from year to year.
As at 31 March 2018, the Company held four 2017: The Companys objective, strategy and principal activity have three unlisted investments with a fair value of 64,339,000 remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2018.
Investment Philosophy, Style and Process The Portfolio Manager makes full use of Fidelitys extensive Use of Derivative Instruments investment research presence and investment licenses in The Company may use derivative instruments for efficient portfolio China.
He focuses on undervalued companies which have management, gearing and hedging purposes.
They may also be good long-term growth prospects and which have been used to achieve the investment objective i. e. to enhance portfolio underestimated by the wider market.
management meetings comprise an important part of the investment process.
He has a bias to small and medium-sized The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset Exposure companies, where lower levels of research by competitors leads of short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate to greater opportunities for mispricing but he is not constrained exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
and may invest in large or mega-cap companies such as  where mispricing appears.
Stock selection is As at 31 March 2018, the Companys exposure to short derivative bottom-up and unconstrained by Benchmark allocations.
instruments represented 11.7% 2017: 6.3% of Gross Assets.
11 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC It is the Boards policy that total exposure to any single Performance counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited to, the The Companys performance for the year ended 31 March management of cash and the use of derivatives should not 2018, including a summary of the years activities, and details exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative exposures are included on trends and factors that may impact the future performance of after the netting off of off-setting positions and allowing for any the Company, are included in the Chairmans Statement and the collateral placed by the counterparty with the Company.
Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 to 7.
The Forty Largest Holdings, the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Attribution Analysis As at 31 March 2018, the Companys largest exposure to and the Record since Launch are on pages 15 to 20. any single counterparty from all derivative activities was 9.0% 2017:2.3% of Gross Assets.
Results and Dividends The Companys results for the year ended 31 March 2018 are Investment in other Listed Investment Companies set out in the Income Statement on page 43.
The total return per The Company may invest no more than 10%, in aggregate, ordinary share was 49.66 pence of which the revenue return was of its Gross Assets at the time of acquisition in other listed 3.80pence.
investment companies including listed investment trusts, but this restriction will not apply to investments in investment companies The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.50 pence or investment trusts which themselves have stated investment per ordinary share be paid on 30 July 2018 to shareholders who policies to invest no more than 15% of their Gross Assets in other appear on the register as at close of business on 22 June 2018 listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
As at 31 March 2018, the Company held no investments in other Key Performance Indicators listed investment companies 2017: nil.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the performance of the Company and which are comparable to Borrowing and Gearing policy those reported by other investment companies are set out below.
The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is Year ended Year ended responsible for the Companys gearing strategy with day-to-day 31 March 31 March decisions being made by the Investment Manager within the 2018 2017 remit set by the Board in line with the Companys Prospectus.
% % Net Asset Value total return 22.2 38.8 The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company, whether from borrowing Share Price total return 23.6 45.8 or the use of derivatives, may not exceed the Net Assets of MSCI China Index total return 23.8 37.6 the Company by more than 30%.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating within these limits.
Discount to Net Asset Value 12.3 13.2 During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did Ongoing Charges 1.35 1.16 not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 30%.
As The basis of calculating the Ongoing Charge has changed as set out in the at 31 March 2018, Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets Chairmans Statement on page 3. was 20.2% 2017: 27.6%.
Foreign Exchange Hedging Policy In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board also monitors the The Companys Financial Statements are denominated in UK factors contributing to investment results, as set out in the NAV sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies Attribution Analysis table on page 19.
Long-term performance is other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong also monitored and the Record since Launch on page 20 shows dollars and US dollars.
It is the Companys policy not to hedge this performance.
the underlying currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to take the currency risk into consideration when making Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management investment decisions.
As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process Dividend Policy for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks The Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board, with the and thus the Board does not expect dividends to constitute a assistance of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager FIL material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order Investment Services UK Limited the Manager, has developed to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Company a risk matrix which, as part of the risk management and internal is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than The risks identified are placed on the Companys risk matrix and 15%of its net income in any reporting year.
This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 12 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board determines the nature principal risks and uncertainties and to ensure that the Board can and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks and The Manager also has responsibility for risk management for the uncertainties faced by the Company.
There have been no Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the changes to these since the prior year.
Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Investing in an emerging market such as the Peoples Republic of China PRC subjects the Market risk Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability such as US-China trade tensions and the risk of a major military confrontation on the Korean peninsula, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to investors being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
The proportion of the portfolio invested in companies operating a VIE structure is monitored on a monthly basis by the Manager and holdings are reported to the Board.
As at 31 March 2018, 46.7% of the companies in the portfolio had a VIE structure Benchmark Index: 42.6%.
The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires Performance risk the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
Borrowing and derivative limits are set by the Board in line with the Companys Prospectus.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager who is supported by a team of 27 analysts.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook of the markets with the Portfolio Manager.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter-term.
Performance for the financial year is outlined in the Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 and 5.
Due to the nature of investment companies, the Board cannot control the discount at which Discount control risk the Companys share price trades to Net Asset Value.
However, it can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for the Companys shares through good performance and an active investor relations programme.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and regularly reported to the Board.
Further details are provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4.
The Company has the ability to invest up to the total of any loan facilities in equities.
The Gearing risk principal risk is that while in a rising market the Company should benefit from gearing, in a falling market the impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company has a US$150,000,000 fixed rate unsecured facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC which has been fully drawn down.
In addition, the Company can also use contracts for difference CFDs to obtain further gearing exposure.
The Board regularly considers the level of gearing and gearing risk.
13 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The functional and presentational currency of the Company in which it reports its results is UK Currency risk sterling.
Most of its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars, US dollars and Chinese renminbi.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other currencies.
It is the Companys current policy not to hedge against currency risks.
The loan facility is denominated in US dollars and, therefore, the effect of US dollar exchange rate movements on assets denominated in US dollars will be offset by their effect on the loan facility.
Further details can be found in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 57 to 67.
Other risks facing the Company include: The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as set out above and their potential impact: Cybercrime risk The future demand for the Companys shares: The risk posed by cybercrime is rated as significant and the Board receives regular updates from the Manager on cybercrime The Companys share price discount to the NAV: threats.
The Managers technology team continues with initiatives to strengthen the control environment in relation to emerging The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: threats.
The level of income generated by the Company: and Tax and Regulatory risks Future income and expenditure forecasts.
There is a risk of not complying with the tax and regulatory requirements in the UK and China.
The Companys performance has been strong over the five year period to 31 March 2018.
The Board regularly reviews the A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could investment policy and considers whether it remains appropriate.
lead to a loss of investment trust status resulting in the Company The Board has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation being subject to tax on capital gains.
that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years based on the The Board monitors tax and regulatory changes at each Board following considerations: meeting and through active engagement with regulators and trade bodies by the Manager.
The Investment Managers compliance with the Companys investment objective, its investment strategy and asset Operational risks allocation: The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
The fact that the portfolio comprises sufficient readily It is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding control systems and those of its service providers with regard requirements if necessary: to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, The Boards discount management policy: and accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements.
They are subject to a risk-based programme of The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs and internal audits by the Manager.
In addition, service providers income which are considered reasonable in comparison to own internal controls reports are received by the Board on an the Companys total assets.
annual basis and any concerns are investigated.
In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability Viability Statement to operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Concern Statement in the Directors Report on pages 22 and 23.
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the twelve month Board Diversity period required by the Going Concern basis.
The Company The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of is an investment trust with the objective of achieving long-term objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for capital growth.
The Board considers long-term to be at least the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at five years, and accordingly, the Directors believe five years is 31March 2018, there were four male Directors and two female an appropriate investment horizon to assess the viability of the Directors on the Board.
This will change to three male Directors Company, although the life of the Company is not intended to be and two female Directors when John Ford steps down at the limited to this or any other period.
In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the Board has considered the following: Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in non-executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third prevailing market conditions: INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 14 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Fidelity group of companies including the Manager, FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International encourages Environmental and Social Governance ESG factors in its investment decision making process.
It has been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual report detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
As an investment company, the Company does not provide goods and services in the normal course of business and has no customers.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Company is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Socially Responsible Investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Corporate Engagement The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board, it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Investment Managers.
These activities are reviewed regularly by the Investment Managers corporate governance team.
Future Developments Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are common to many investment companies together with the impact of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 to 7.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 11 June 2018
