08 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Review of Investments Top 10 Holdings and Unlisted Investments as at 31 March 2018 based on Gross Asset Exposure expressed as a percentage of net assets Industry Information Technology Industry Information Technology Industry Financials Tencent Holdings Alibaba Group Holdings China Pacific Insurance Group 15.7% 9.9% 4.5% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Tencent Holdings is one of the largest Alibaba Group Holdings is a Chinese China Pacific Insurance Group is Chinas internet and technology companies in the multinational e-commerce, retail, internet, 3rd largest insurer and offers a broad world, and Asias most valuable company AI and technology conglomerate.
It runs range of protection, investment and wealth in terms of market value.
Its business the biggest e-commerce platform in management services.
It has one of the spans social network, music, web portals, the world with online sales and profits largest agent forces in China, employing e-commerce, mobile games, internet surpassing all US retailers including 900,000 agents throughout the country.
services, payment systems, smartphones, Walmart, Amazon and eBay combined.
and multiplayer online games, which are On Chinas Singles Day last year all among the worlds biggest and most 11November 2017, it recorded sales of successful in their respective categories.
Alibaba also Tencents applications are hosted on its has a significant stake in Ant Financial, WeChat platform, which recently reached which offers a range of financial services 1billion monthly active users MAU.
Tencent including Chinas leading mobile payment also makes strategic investments such as its system, AliPay.
5% stake in Tesla and 10% in Spotify.
Industry Healthcare Industry Financials Industry Energy Hutchison China MediTech China Life Insurance China Petroleum & Company Chemical Corporation Gross Asset Exposure 2.8% Gross Asset Exposure 2.4% Gross Asset Exposure 2.1% Hutchison China MediTech is a leader in China Life Insurance Company is the Energy giant China Petroleum & Chemical Chinas nascent biopharmaceutical sector, largest insurer in China and it offers a Corporation, better known as Sinopec, is specialising in therapies for oncology and wide range of life, accident, and health a leading state-owned petroleum energy immunological diseases.
The company insurance products and services.
Founded and chemical company in China with has a number of potential drugs in its in 1949, it is now one of the Fortune key operations in downstream refining, development pipeline, with multinationals Global 500 companies.
The such as AstraZeneca and Eli Lily teaming company has an unrivalled distribution up with HCM to develop its work further.
network of over 31,000 petrol stations HCM has a strong traditional Chinese across China, which may be spun-off via a medicine business that acts as a stable separate IPO in the medium-term.
cash generator for its biopharmaceutical business.
09 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Industry Consumer Discretionary Industry Financials Industry Information Technology Ctrip.
com Noah Holdings 58. com 2.0% 1.9% 1.9% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Ctrip.
com is Chinas largest online travel Noah Holdings is a leading independent 58. com operates the largest online agent and provides services including wealth and asset management service classified platform in China.
The accommodation reservation, transportation provider in China with a focus on Companys online platform enables local ticketing, packaged tours and corporate investment and asset allocation services merchants and consumers to connect with travel management.
The company has for high net worth individuals.
It has others, share information and conduct around two-thirds market share in a over 100,000 high net worth clients and business.
Its online market place contains fast growing industry that is a direct assets under management of more than local information in approximately 380 beneficiary of increasing Chinese tourism, US$20bn.
cities in China, across diverse content especially for millennials.
Its scale gives categories, including housing, jobs, used it strong pricing power with hotels and goods, autos, pets, tickets, yellow pages airlines.
Industry Consumer Discretionary Unlisted Investments Xiaoju Kuaizhi Didi China Internet Plus Holdings Chuxing formerly Meituan Didi Chuxing is the leading ride-sharing China Internet Plus is a leader in online player in China recording between 25-30 services, with key businesses in food delivery, million rides per day through its app.
The ticket bookings and vouchers.
Theyrecently company has significant investments from announced the launch of ride sharing in huge firms including Alibaba, Tencent, competitionwith Didi and acquired Mobike, China Meidong Auto Softbank and Apple.
Didi has also been Chinas largest bicycle sharing system.
Holdings expanding overseas, with stakes in companies across South East Asia and Gross Asset Exposure 1.8% SouthAmerica.
China Meidong Auto Holdings is a mid-sized automobile dealership headquartered in Guangdong.
It operates 45 dealerships covering world-renowned brands which are popular among Chinese Shanghai Yiguo E-commerce Aurora Mobile Limited consumers, including BMW, Lexus, Toyota Yiguo Jiguang and Hyundai, but differentiates itself from the competition by offering exceptional Jiguang is a leading app developer service Yiguo is a leading fresh food e-commerce auto servicing.
company, which aims to create a farmprovider and big data platform in China.
By the end of 2017, Jiguang served over 707,000 to-table e-commerce platform.
It is the exclusive operator of the fresh food segment apps in China and worked with 300,000 developers, holding a dominant position in on Alibabas T-Mall Supermarket and both Alibaba and its management team are the App Push Notification Service segment strategic investors.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
