09 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Top 10 Holdings as at 31 December 2018 based on Gross Asset Exposure expressed as a percentage of Shareholders Funds Industry Consumer Goods Industry Healthcare Industry Oil & Gas Nestl Roche Total Switzerland Switzerland France 6.9% 5.4% 4.4% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Nestl is the largest food company in the world Swiss multinational healthcare giant Roche is the Total is one of seven supermajor oil based on revenues since 2014.
The company worlds largest biotechnology company, it aims companies and has produced oil and gas has more than 2,000 brands and has a presence to improve the standard of care across oncology, for almost one hundred years.
It has a in 191 countries across the globe.
Nestl was immunology, infectious diseases, ophthalmology presence in more than 130 countries and founded over 152 years ago in the merger of and neuroscience.
There are 30 research and produces almost 2.7m barrel of oil equivalent the Anglo-Swiss Milk Company established in development sites in pharmaceuticals and 1866 by Charles and George Page, with Farine per day of hydrocarbons.
It expanded significantly during both World headquartered company was founded after acquired a 60% stake in Genentech US Biotech, Wars - broadening its product set beyond its milk the First World War, when French president before taking the outstanding portion in 2009, and infant formula ranges.
Today the company Raymond Poincar encouraged the creation remains committed to expanding its product suite making the unit a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Today Total has to reflect new consumer tastes and lifestyles.
Genentech has been one of the most productive more than 98,000 employees across the globe Nestl saw significant earnings growth in 2018, in biotech names in the last twenty years - with part boosted by cost-cutting activity including the focused on the exploration and production of the discovery of Herceptin, Rituxan and Avastin, sale of its US confectionery business to Ferrero oil and gas, refining, petrochemicals and the among others.
Its fastest growing product channel is distribution of energy in various forms to the its nutrition and health science range.
Industry Healthcare Industry Technology Sanofi SAP France Germany Gross Asset Exposure 4.3% Gross Asset Exposure 3.9% French biopharmaceuticals giant Sanofi has 79 SAP is a multinational software operation manufacturing sites in 36 countries.
There are which manufactures enterprise software five key healthcare areas of focus - diabetes and provides cloud services to assist in the and cardiovascular, speciality care, vaccines, running of business operations and customer consumer healthcare and general medicines, services.
The company has a high recurring and emerging markets.
The management revenue ratio and a notably flexible cost team highlights a growing and aging global base.
In 2017 SAP was rated the most population as a supportive secular factor sustainable software company in the Dow and points out that medical needs remain Jones Sustainability Index for the eleventh high.
Sanofi is currently implementing its 2020 consecutive year.
The company has in excess strategic roadmap, first announced in November of 370,000 customers in more than 180 2015 with the aim of reshaping its portfolio, countries.
delivering outstanding launches, and sustaining innovation in research and development.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 10 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Top 10 Holdings continued Industry Financials Industry Healthcare Industry Consumer Goods Sampo Novo Nordisk LOral Finland Denmark France 3.2% 3.1% Gross Asset Exposure 3.4% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure The leading beauty manufacturer worldwide, Finland-based Sampo operates as a holding Novo Nordisk is a global pharmaceuticals company.
Through its subsidiaries the company with 16 production sites on five LOral has 34 brands and a presence in 150 countries.
Demographic trends, particularly company provides commercial and private continents and research and development property and casualty insurance products in facilities in Demark, China and the US.
Its in emerging markets with their expanding middle class, are supportive.
Research the Nordics and the Baltics, as well as life products are marketed in more than 170 insurance products in Finland and the Baltics.
countries and 27.7m people use Novo and development remain a priority for the management team which stresses the need The company also owns 21% of Nordea, the Nordisks diabetes care products.
companys mission is to drive change and for innovation and superior quality in a world of ratings and reviews.
defeat diabetes and other serious chronic diseases by discovering and developing innovative biological medicines and distributing these around the world.
Industry Consumer Goods Industry Technology ASML LVMH Mot Hennessy Netherlands France Gross Asset Exposure 3.1% Gross Asset Exposure 3.1% French multinational luxury goods Dutch company ASML is the largest supplier conglomerate LVMH Mot Hennessy prides globally of photolithographic systems for the itself on being a world leader in luxury.
Its clients include LVMH owns 70 brands, across wine and most of the worlds leading chip makers such spirits, fashion and leather goods, perfume as Intel and Samsung.
ASMLs products work with light sources, which generate ultraviolet and cosmetics, watches and jewellery and selective retailing.
It has a retail network light which is projected through a blueprint of a geometric chip pattern.
Optics reduce of over 4,000 shops worldwide.
Among the most renowned names in its stable are Dom and focus the pattern onto a thin slice of silicon, coated in a light-sensitive substance.
Perignon, Mot & Chandon, Christian Dior, Marc Jacobs, Acqua di Parma and Chaumet.
The light interacts with the chemical, working to print the pattern on to the wafer.
Later In the last few years there has been renewed focus on improvement of production methods in the process a three-dimensional structure is revealed, and the procedure is repeated and the development of digital activities.
