21 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Board of Directors Nicholas Bull FCA John Ford Chairman since 22 July 2016 Director Appointed 4 February 2010 Appointed 22 July 2016 A I M N N Mr Bull is the Senior Independent Director of Coats Group plc.
He is Mr Ford was Fidelity Internationals Global Chief Investment Officer, also a Member of Council of the University of Exeter, a Trustee of the Fixed Income, Multi Asset and Real Estate from the beginning of 2016, Camborne School of Mines Trust, a Trustee of the Design Museum until his departure from Fidelity on 31 December 2017.
He was a and Deputy Chairman of the Trustees of the Conran Foundation.
He member of Fidelitys Global Operating Committee from 2008 and was was a Director, then Chairman, of hotels group fide Vere from 2010 also Chief Investment Officer for its Asia Pacific region until 2016.
He until the completion of its asset disposal programme in 2015.
He was joined Fidelity in 2005 as the Hong Kong based Managing Director of also Chairman of the Advisory Board of City stockbroker, Westhouse its operations in South East Asia before becoming the Chief Investment Securities.
Previously Mr Bull worked for 30 years as a corporate Officer in 2006 for Japan.
He has worked in the asset management finance practitioner with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche industry since 1986, having previously spent 19 years at Schroders.
Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore He was located in Asia for much of that time and worked in a number and Hong Kong.
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
of different countries in the region including Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie DL Elisabeth Scott Director Senior Independent Director Appointed 4 February 2010 since 22 July 2016 Appointed 1 November 2011 A I M N A I M N Mr Pleydell-Bouverie is an investment professional with over 30 years Ms Scott is a non-executive Director of Pacific Horizon Investment of investment experience, particularly in the Far East and emerging Trust PLC, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC and Allianz markets.
His current non-executive positions include acting as CIO and Technology Trust PLC.
She is also non-executive Chairman of India Trustee on investment committees for family and charitable trusts.
He Capital Growth Fund Limited and a Director of the Association of is also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Wiltshire.
He spent ten Investment Companies AIC.
She worked in the asset management years with FIL where he was Investment Director until 1996, managing industry in Hong Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she was Managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, offshore funds, pension funds and the Director and Country Head of Schroder Investment Management Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
Prior to this, he was an associate Hong Kong Limited and Chairman of the Hong Kong Investment Director at Kleinwort Grieveson Investment Management and fund Funds Association.
manager at Grieveson, Grant and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
David Causer FCA Vera Hong Wei Director Director Appointed 4 February 2010 Appointed 24 March 2016 A I M N A I M N Mr Causer is a non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman Ms Wei has over 18 years experience in the Chinese financial industry of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc.
He is a qualified Chartered spanning central bank, commercial bank and asset management Accountant and a member of the Securities Institute.
She is Chief Executive of Sloan Education Ltd.
Her previous number of senior positions within financial services organisations, roles include Managing Director of Greenwoods Asset Management, including as Finance Director of Mercury Asset Management Group plc Vice General Manager of Ping An Annuity in Shanghai, Head of and as a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers until Corporate Banking at Shenzhen Development Bank and Director of The 2001.
He was Finance Director of The British Red Cross Society until Peoples Bank of China.
He is also a Trustee of a number of charities and a former public member of Network Rail.
All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are independent, with the exception of John Ford.
Committee membership key A Audit I Investment M Management Engagement N Nomination and Remuneration Committee Chair INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
