05 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Portfolio Managers Review Question How has the Company performed in the year under review?
Answer The Company had a disappointing year in absolute terms with the NAV total return falling by 4.8% and the share price total return falling by 6.8% as the discount widened.
I hope it will be some consolation to shareholders that the Companys NAV and share price both fell less than the Benchmark Index which was down by 9.5%.
Question And what has the market environment been like in the year under review?
Answer 2018 was a year of growing uncertainty, which is never good for stock market returns.
As in a suspense movie, investors spent much of the year fearing what might come next.
When the year began, the global economy was humming, earnings estimates were rising and there appeared to be few clouds on the horizon.
Within a few weeks, however, and just as the ink dried on endless optimistic projections by strategy teams around the City, the angst began.
Investors started to worry: is this as good as it gets?
Then as the year progressed, events provided more reasons to fear what might come next.
We ended the year almost at the other end of the spectrum: fearing the impact of Sam Morse was appointed as trade wars, higher interest rates in the US, the unpredictability of Portfolio Manager of Fidelity populist political agendas, etc.
and all this just as the European Central Bank ECB finally ended its programme of quantitative European Values PLC on easing!
December saw a dramatic sell-off and what was touted, at the outset, to be a banner year for stock market investors, 1January 2011.
He has also turned into a very disappointing year with only cash providing a positive return.
managed the Fidelity European Fund since 1 January 2010.
He Question first joined Fidelity as a research What have been the key contributors to analyst and covered a range performance?
of sectors before becoming an Answer equity income fund manager.
He The focus on reliable dividend growers often means that the Company holds up relatively well when investors grow more also worked as Head of Equities nervous and when equity markets struggle and this was the case at M&G.
Other factors contributed positively too, such as sector positioning, e. g. being overweight in technology and underweight in automobiles, and the focus on strong balance sheets as investors became increasingly concerned about financial leverage.
Stockpicking, however was, as usual, the main determinant of relative performance.
The financial sector provided the greatest boost, in aggregate, to relative performance.
Deutsche Boerse was a strong individual contributor, as detailed in the interim report, but more generally, avoiding low-return banks, seen early in the year as INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 06 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Portfolio Managers Review continued This year: is the party over?
Whats been troubling the market in 2018 What do you consider the biggest tail risk?
11500 Trade war 11000 Quantative Tightening 10500 China slowdown 10000 Credit default cycle EU crisis Italy, Brexit 9500 Market structure 9000 Other please specify 8500 Oil collapse 8000 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 % Dec-18 Nov-18 MSCI Europe ex UK US$ Total Return Index Sources: Fidelity and DataStream, December 2018.
Index is MSCI Europe ex UK.
Sources: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Fund Manager Survey, December 2018. recovery plays on the back of rising interest rates, helped when it markets may be unfashionable today, having had a difficult 2018, turned out that interest rates in Europe were, as the President of but the longer term growth prospects remain good.
My investment the ECB Mario Draghi confirmed, going nowhere until at least after approach is to try to make sure that we own the best balance of the summer of 2019.
The top individual contributor for the year companies with respect to consistent dividend growth and what is was Edenred -- the global leader in managing employee benefit discounted in the shares valuation.
I tend not to react to events or programs for corporates remember luncheon vouchers?
-- which changes in stock market fashions but try to make sure that there saw an acceleration in organic and inorganic growth under the is a balance in the portfolio across sectors and regions, including stewardship of a relatively new management team.
Brazil is the emerging markets, which will make sure that the Company can single biggest area for Edenred so optimism about the prospects perform consistently in different environments.
Rising input prices for that country, following the election of Bolsonaro, gave the stock are a function of where we are in the economic cycle.
If a company an extra lift too.
As always, there were also disappointments in has pricing power, it is often able to pass these rising input prices terms of stock picking.
The most notable of these was Iliad Group, on to customers and mitigate any hit to margins.
Weaker businesses the French telecoms company, which suffered from poor execution will struggle to do so.
I have always favoured companies with in an increasingly competitive market and Atlantia, the Italian strong pricing power which are often strong business franchises motorways operator, which had a major setback when the Morandi that are capable of growing their dividends consistently.
Political bridge collapsed with tragic consequences.
uncertainty is, Im afraid, here to stay.
Ultimately, strong businesses which can deliver consistent dividend growth will continue to thrive Question in difficult times even though political uncertainty may cause the markets to be volatile on a shorter term view.
There have been a number of challenges Question for European equity managers this year, not least the high sales exposure to What have been the major changes to emerging markets of many European the portfolio over the period?
companies, rising input prices and Answer political uncertainty.
How have you I seldom make major changes to the portfolio because my navigated these?
investment horizon is quite long term.
I am focused on attractivelyvalued companies, which I think can grow their dividends Answer consistently on a three to five year view.
Indeed, many of the More than a quarter of sales by European companies are now Companys investments have been held throughout my tenure as made in emerging markets which demonstrates their considerable this Companys Portfolio Manager, which is now more than eight success in expanding outside their domestic markets.
As a result, the turnover in the portfolio tends to be quite Apr-17 Jun-17 Aug-17 Oct-17 Dec-17 Feb-18 Apr-18 Jun-18 Aug-18 Oct-18 Dec-18 07 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC low and 2018 was no exception to this.
Holdings in BIC Group, Question the lighters to pens company, Elior, the contract caterer, AnheuserBusch InBev, the beer company, and Aena, the Spanish airports The market seems to be assuming that owner and operator, were all sold during the year.
The first three there will, ultimately, be an agreed were sold on concerns regarding their dividend outlook given deteriorating fundamentals while Aena, which has been a very withdrawal deal between the UK and the rewarding investment since purchase around three years ago, EU.
How would that was sold because the valuation was no longer as attractive.
I was concerned that the strategy of the company might change for the impact the Trust?
worse following the election of a new government in Spain.
One new holding was added during the year: Grifols, which is one Answer of the global leaders in plasma-derived treatments, where we The UK represents a small proportion of continental European expect to see earnings growth accelerate beyond expectations companies sales and profits: less than 5%.
So the direct as the number of suitable indications grow and as newly-opened consequences of a no deal Brexit, and a subsequent collection centres mature.
devaluation of UK sterling, would be minimal for most companies.
Question Those more affected would be companies with larger businesses in the UK such as the Spanish banks Santander and Sabadell.
A number of companies, such as those in the auto sector, might How has your derivative strategy also suffer from short term disruption due to supply chain issues performed in the year under review?
if there is a no deal Brexit.
A devaluation of UK sterling in the event of a no deal Brexit would, however, result in exchange rate Answer gains for UK sterling investors in the Company.
An appreciation of UK sterling would have an opposite effect.
Note 17 on page Gearing did not help given falling markets and unfortunately, 61 provides foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis.
There may, the short portfolio did not really add much value either.
Having of course, also be some indirect consequences, or second order said that, there have been some soft benefits in terms of effects, such as a general drop in business confidence which may meeting companies and analysts with whom I might not formerly affect equities negatively.
Assessing performance over one year is also, probably, too short a period to draw a conclusion as to the merits of this shorting strategy.
However, I am mindful that time focused on the derivatives strategy may distract from or dilute the main objectives of the Company.
I have committed to the Board that, until there is evidence that this strategy works, I will not make it a larger proportion of the Company.
Macro outlook Macroeconomic surprises: growth slowdown Fidelity Leading Indicators FLI : signs of a slowdown still poses risk to 2019 earnings 6% 150 4% 100 2% 50 0% 0 Commodities -2% -50 Trade Industrial Orders Hard Data -4% -100 Consumer and Labour Business Surveys -6% OECD IP 3m% change -150 -8% Jun 2007 Jun 2009 Jun 2011 Jun 2013 Jun 2015 Jun 2017 Citi Economic Surprise Index Eurozone Source: Fidelity, 28 December 2018.
Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17 Jan-18 Jul-18 Jan-19 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 08 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Portfolio Managers Review continued Question What should investors remain focused on in the months ahead?
Answer Focus on the long term.
The Russians, I am told, have a proverb that says: if your shoes are dirty, point to the horizon.
Well the shoes may be a little dirty as we enter 2019 which could be a tricky year for European stock markets given on-going earnings downgrades, Brexit machinations, continued uncertainty about the impact of US Federal Reserve tightening and the end of quantitative easing in Europe.
In the long term it pays to stay invested in equities and, in particular, in those companies that are able to grow their dividends consistently.
Valuation is improving but we are far from trough levels.
The current dividend yield of the European markets is only about 70% of the highest level seen during my tenure as Portfolio Manager of the Company.
Often, in a fundamental downturn, valuations become very cheap in historical terms.
Fidelity has pointed out many times, however, that it is extremely difficult to try and time markets, so my policy is to stay fully invested and ride through the cyclical ups and downs of the market.
In the long term, investors are rewarded for taking that risk.
For my part, I will continue to focus on attractively valued cash-generative companies, with strong balance sheets, which have the potential to grow their dividends consistently over the next three to five years.
Sam Morse Portfolio Manager 14 March 2019
