05 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Portfolio Managers Review Question How has the Company performed over the year under review?
Answer The Companys share price return of 14.0% and the NAV return of 8.7% both on a total return basis for the year were well above the FTSE All-Share Index Benchmark which returned 4.7%.
A mixture of good stock selection and avoiding some of the markets weaker sectors allowed us to deliver another year of performance ahead of the wider market.
Question And what about the market environment more broadly?
Answer The UK stock market performed strongly, particularly in the second half of the review period, supported by a weak sterling, which buoyed shares of companies that generate sales in foreign currencies.
However, we have seen headwinds in the form of escalating global trade friction, while there remains considerable uncertainty around the UKs negotiations to exit the European Union EU.
Question How has Brexit impacted the UK markets and the Company?
Alex Wright was appointed Answer asPortfolio Manager of The uncertainty surrounding Brexit continues.
A recurring question I have been asked recently has been whether I am finding Fidelity Special Values PLC on opportunities among apparently unloved UK small and medium sized companies, particularly post Brexit.
He joined consensus belief, reinforced by fund manager surveys and Fidelity in 2001 as a research press coverage, that UK small and medium sized companies are deeply out of favour and under-owned compared to their analyst and covered a number larger and more international cousins in the FTSE 100.
Looking at performance and valuation data since Brexit June 2016, we of sectors across the market see a different perspective on this one-sided narrative.
In reality, small and medium sized companies have outperformed the FTSE cap spectrum both in the UK 100 since June 2016, continuing the trend of previous years.
as well as developed and Although all of the market has fide-rated, the FTSE 100 is now much cheaper on forward earnings estimates than the more emerging Europe.
He is also domestic FTSE 250 and I have incrementally been finding more Portfolio Manager of Fidelity interesting new ideas in large sized companies.
Special Situations Fund and Question the co-Manager of Fidelity UK What were the drivers of performance?
Answer We benefited from holding Ladbrokes, which was acquired by GVC Holdings.
Ladbrokes is a stock I have used as an example of a deeply unloved UK domestic consumer stock which the market fundamentally misunderstood but where due diligence INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 06 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Portfolio Managers Review continued and scenario analysis by our analyst uncovered significant value Question and limited downside.
This value was ultimately recognised by a corporate buyer.
We also received a bid for Shire, from Japanese Have there been any major changes to group Takeda, following a protracted period of underperformance your strategy?
Our position in Royal Dutch Shell performed well over the period, which benefited from rising Answer oil prices as well as improved cash generation.
My process continues to target unloved stocks which are continues to look attractive and we remain invested.
We have also undergoing positive change that has not yet been recognised by increased our position in Pearson, which has performed well over the market.
Given the sheer number of small and medium sized the year, but remains deeply unloved, despite what we see as an companies, and lower levels of scrutiny among other investors, exciting future for the company.
I expect the portfolio will always have a significant weighting to We suffered negative contribution from owning BT and Leonardo.
small and medium sized companies.
However, at the moment, We have now sold out of both companies.
weightings are likely to be influenced by relative valuations between different size categories, as well as the outlook for Question different industries and companies.
Question And what about your exposure to financials?
What is your outlook for the next twelve Answer months?
Financials account for about 39% of the portfolio compared to Answer 26% in the Index, spread across banks, financial services and In the 6 years I have been managing the Companys portfolio, diversified financials.
In banks, we hold Citigroup, Lloyds Banking the UK market has delivered returns of almost 10% per year on Group, Bank of Ireland Group and RBS Group.
These stocks are an annualised basis.
This is well above very long term historical trading on cheap valuations.
There has been a strong pick-up averages, and it would probably not be wise to expect such in their earnings and banks have been steadily rebuilding their unusually high returns to continue indefinitely.
balance sheets following the financial crash of 2008.
However, However, I am feeling increasingly positive on the performance this is not fully reflected in their share prices.
I also hold positions outlook for the UK market particularly relative to other markets.
in insurers such as Phoenix Group Holdings and Aviva which are The reasons I am positive chiefly relate to how negative everybody more defensive businesses than banks but also trade at very else seems to be.
Most investors I meet are underweight in UK attractive valuations.
stocks, and many global investors avoid holding UK stocks at all if they can help it.
The Brexit narrative has meant UK assets Question have become deeply unloved, and therefore interesting from a contrarian point of view.
One thing I have learnt from investing in Do you tend to focus more on stock-specific unloved companies is that you shouldnt necessarily wait for the changes or those in whole industries?
good news to become obvious before investing.
By investing when all the bad news is in the price and no good news is expected Answer at all, then you put the odds in your favour.
I believe that whatever It depends.
Whereas our positions in the oil and banking sectors the outcome of the negotiations with the EU, any improvement in rest on a combination of stock-specific changes and industry clarity could result in a period of stronger performance for the UK change, our positions in defensive sectors are more stock-specific.
Investors will use any sort of agreement as a catalyst to revisit the UK market, and find that it contains many good quality We remain underweight in consumer goods, although following undervalued companies, particularly compared to other developed the dramatic sell off in tobacco in the market, the Company markets, such as the US, where valuations are much higher.
bought a 1% position in Imperial Brands, which currently trades on a 7% dividend yield comfortably covered by free cash flow.
That said, I still believe that a selective approach remains This is unlikely to become a large position for the Company important.
Not all stocks are equally attractive, and although given the negative structural trends in tobacco and high levels of many domestic businesses are being unfairly ignored, others leverage.
However, weak sentiment and a low valuation, suggests are structurally compromised, financially unsound and therefore an attractive risk reward for the stock today.
The Company has best avoided.
Attractive valuations are now to be found in more also bought a new position in Irish brewer C&C Group following defensive and large-cap parts of the market, although the their acquisition of distributor Matthew Clark, which I believe financials sector remains a fertile source of ideas for my investment transforms their previously struggling UK business.
As ever, I remain focused on building a portfolio of unloved stocks with potential for positive change.
There is certainly examples of more stock specific change stories.
a plentiful supply of unloved companies in the UK market today, and my task is to identify those with the strongest margin of safety and the best chances of positive change.
Alex Wright Portfolio Manager 31 October 2018
