07 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Top 10 Holdings as at 31 August 2018 based on Gross Asset Exposure expressed as a percentage of Shareholders Funds Industry Financials Industry Oil & Gas Industry Financials Citigroup Royal Dutch Shell Lloyds Banking Group 5.4% 4.9% 4.5% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure A global bank focused on North and Royal Dutch Shell is a global energy Lloyds Banking Group is a high quality South America, with a strong balance company.
It has dramatically reduced retail bank in an attractive UK banking sheet that allows profits to be returned capex and improved its cost discipline, market.
It has a strong capital position to shareholders as share buybacks.
which has allowed free cash flow and a significantly fide-risked loan book.
Citigroup stands out globally as a very generation to improve significantly.
Lloyds has transformed its business over attractively valued stock in a strong The companys 5.5% dividend yield is the past decade, and with PPI claims end-market, with opportunities to cut covered by free cash flow even if oil coming to an end in 2019, it will be in costs and grow market share.
prices drop well below current levels, a position to begin returning significant giving us confidence that the shares amounts of cash to shareholders have a margin of safety.
If prices through dividends or buybacks of the remain around current levels, Royal firms undervalued stock.
Dutch Shells valuation could rise as investors anticipate returns of capital.
Industry Industrials Industry Health Care CRH Shire Gross Asset Exposure 4.4% Gross Asset Exposure 4.1 % CRH is a global leader in building Shire is a global pharmaceutical materials, with strong local market company with a speciality in rare positions across a number of different diseases.
Following a series of underperformance, the company judicious acquisitions, the company received a bid from Japanese now has a plan to increase margins by pharmaceutical group Takeda.
Margins in the companys current share price reflects a discount European business remain well below to the agreed take-out price, which we previous peaks, suggesting there is would expect to narrow as the deal room for them to grow further.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 08 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Top 10 Holdings continued Industry Oil & Gas Industry Consumer Services Industry Financials BP Pearson Phoenix Group Holdings 3.9% 3.9% 3.4% Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure BP is the 7th largest oil and gas Pearson remains one of the most Phoenix Group Holdings is a company in the world.
With the unloved companies in the UK, despite consolidator of closed life insurance uncertainty relating to the Macondo what we see as an exciting future for books.
They recently bought a disaster and the companys Russian the education services company.
The large book from Standard Life, and exposure now firmly under control, company is gradually transitioning away management have demonstrated their investors can now view BP as a from its physical textbook business ability to integrate large businesses and defensive cost-leader in integrated oil, towards digital services, which will extract cashflows which can be used with a large portion of free cash flow significantly improve the quality of the to fund dividend payments or further not linked to oil prices.
The company is well financed yield of over 5.5%, which is covered at balance sheet and a counter-cyclical and could be in a position to grow its much lower oil prices, should provide underlying business, Pearson should dividend, making the current 7% yield shareholders with a good margin of prove resilient if economic conditions look very attractive.
Industry Financials Industry Financials Aviva John Laing Group Gross Asset Exposure 3.0% Gross Asset Exposure 2.8% UK Life insurer Aviva is now John Laing creates, owns and manages well-capitalised and highly cash infrastructure assets.
It has a dividend yield trades at a discount to NAV despite of over 6% which can grow as the profitably developing new assets.
This company executes on self-help and anomaly was highlighted recently when cost management programmes.
The the company received a bid for one of companys low risk asset base and the funds it manages at a premium to defensive end-markets should give it NAV.
The company is well positioned in some downside protection if markets the US, which is beginning to open up enter a more difficult phase.
to the Public-Private Partnership PPP model of funding.
