27 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Nicky McCabe retired from Fidelity International at the end of with the audited Financial Statements of the Company for the December 2017 and remains on the Board as a Non-Executive year ended 31 August 2018.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as Directors and Officers Liability Insurance a public limited company on 27 September 1994 under the In addition to benefits under the Managers global Directors and name of Fidelity Special Values PLC with the registered number Officers liability insurance arrangements, the Company maintains 2972628 and commenced business as an investment trust on insurance cover for its Directors under its own policy as permitted 17November 1994. by the Companies Act 2006.
Management Company Going Concern Statement FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL is the Companys The Directors have considered the Companys investment appointed Alternative Investment Fund Manager the AIFM objective, risk management policies, liquidity risk, credit risk, Manager.
FISL, as the Manager, has delegated the portfolio capital management policies and procedures, the nature of its management of assets and the role of company secretary to FIL portfolio being mainly securities which are readily realisable Investments International.
and its expenditure and cash flow projections and have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue The Alternative Investment Fund Management and Secretarial to adopt the going concern basis for at least twelve months from Services Agreement the Management Agreement will the date of this Annual Report.
The prospects of the Company continue unless and until terminated by either party giving to over a period longer than twelve months can be found in the the other, not less than six months notice in writing.
However, Viability Statement on page 12. it may be terminated without compensation if the Company is liquidated pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles Auditors Appointment of Association of the Company.
The Management Agreement A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the may also be terminated forthwith as a result of a material Company will be proposed at the AGM on 12 December 2018. breach of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may terminate the Disclosure of Information to the Companys Auditor Agreement by sixty days notice if the Manager ceases to be a As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each subsidiary of FIL Limited.
Director in office as at the date of this report confirms that: FIL Limited has no beneficial interest in the shares of the a so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Company 2017: same.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and The Board reviews the Management Agreement at least annually b each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have and details are included in the Corporate Governance Statement been taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of on pages 31 and 32. any audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Fee Arrangements for the reporting year For the year ended 31 August 2018, the Companys annual Articles of Association management fee was 0.875% of the Companys net assets Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must excluding the value of any investment in any fund managed by be made by special resolution.
the Manager and a fixed fee of 600,000.
Fees were calculated and paid quarterly and totalled 6,707,000 2017: 6,076,000.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of this report Revised Fee Arrangements and can be found on pages 30 to 33.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, the Company has adopted a new fee arrangement with effect from 1 September Registrar, Custodian and Depositary Arrangements 2018.
Under the revised fee structure, the previous annual flat The Company has appointed Link Asset Services as its Registrar fee of 0.875% is replaced by a fee of 0.85% on the first 700 to manage the Companys share register, JPMorgan Chase Bank million of net assets and a rate of 0.75% will apply to net assets as its Custodian, which is primarily responsible for safeguarding in excess of 700 million.
In addition, the fixed annual fee of the Companys assets, and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its 600,000 reduced to 100,000 per annum.
Depositary, which is primarily responsible for oversight of the custody of investment funds and the protection of investors The Board interests.
Fees paid to these service providers are disclosed in All Directors served on the Board throughout the year ended Note 5 on page 52.
31August 2018 and up to the date of this report.
A brief description of all serving Directors is shown on page 26 and Share Capital indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of 5pence each which are fully listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 August 2018, the share capital of the Company was 270,644,480 shares 2017: 270,644,480 of which INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 28 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Directors Report continued 4,095,000 shares 2017: 6,145,000 are held in Treasury.
Shares in An analysis of Shareholders as at 31 August 2018 is detailed in Treasury do not have voting rights, therefore, the total number of the table below.
% of voting Premium Discount Management: Enhancing Shareholder Value Shareholders as at 31 August 201 8 share capital The Board actively manages the Companys level of premium discount.
If the Company is trading at a discount, it seeks to Private Shareholders 86.70 maintain the discount in single digits in normal market conditions.
Institutions 9.25 The Board seeks authority from Shareholders each year to issue shares at a premium or to repurchase shares at a discount to Pension 1.
98 the NAV either for cancellation or for holding in Treasury.
94 Board will exercise these authorities if deemed to be in the best interests of Shareholders at the time.
Other 0.1 3 Share Issues Includes Fidelity Platform Investors 26.99%.
The Company issued 2,050,000 ordinary shares from Treasury during the year to 31 August 2018 2017: nil.
A further 725,000 Additional information required in the Directors Report number of shares have been issued since the year end and as at Information on proposed dividends, financial instruments and the date of this report.
greenhouse emissions is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 13.
The authorities to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights expire at the AGM on 12 December 2018 and therefore Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder resolutions to renew these authorities will be put to Shareholders The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership at this AGM.
These Principles include the pursuit of an active investment policy through portfolio management Share Repurchases decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and No ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation or holding maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of in Treasury during the year to 31 August 2018 2017: 850,000.
Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship shares have been repurchased since the year end and as at the Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional Shareholders date of this report.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
The authority to repurchase shares expires at the AGM on 12December 2018 and a resolution to renew the authority to Relations with Shareholders purchase shares, either for cancellation or to buy shares into Communication with Shareholders is given a high priority by the Treasury, will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker who are in regular contact with the Companys major institutional Substantial Share Interests investors to canvass Shareholder opinion and to communicate As at 31 August 2018 and 30 September 2018, notification had its views to Shareholders.
All Directors are made aware of been received that the Shareholders listed in the table below any Shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior held more than 3% of the voting share capital of the Company.
Independent Director and, where appropriate, other Directors, are available to meet with Shareholders to discuss strategy and 31 August 30 September governance.
The Board regularly monitors the Shareholder profile Shareholders 201 8 2018 of the Company and receives regular reports from the Manager on meetings attended with Shareholders and any comments Fidelity Platform Investors 26.99 26.93 raised in such meetings.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and Hargreaves Lansdown 6.39 6.37 Shareholders.
If any Shareholder wishes to contact a member Rathbones 5.28 5.33 of the Board directly, they should either email the Company Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to the address Alliance Trust Savings 4.88 4.80 provided on page 72.
The Company Secretary will attend to Investec Wealth & Investment 4.20 4.19 any enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed to the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or the Board as a whole, Speirs & Jeffrey 3.33 3.37 as appropriate.
Quilter Investors 3.08 3.08 The Board encourages all Shareholders to attend the AGM on Brewin Dolphin 3.06 3.09 12 December 2018 at which they have the opportunity to meet and address questions to the Chairman and other members of the Board, the Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Manager.
29 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC The Notice of Meeting on pages 67 to 69 sets out the business of Authority to Allot Shares the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained more Resolution 11 is an ordinary resolution and provides the Directors fully below.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially with a general authority to allot securities in the Company separate issue including the Annual Report and Financial up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,353,222.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to this resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of Shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
27,064,448 ordinary shares which represents approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company including Voting Rights in the Companys Shares Treasury shares as at 31 October 2018 and to impose any limits Every person entitled to vote on a show of hands has one vote.
or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider On a poll every Shareholder who is present in person or by proxy necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury shares, fractional or representative has one vote for every ordinary share held.
At entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after The Directors would not intend to use this power unless they it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting considered that it was in the interests of Shareholders to do so.
results are disclosed on the Companys page of the Managers Any shares issued would be at NAV per share or at a premium to website at www.
Annual General Meeting Authority to Disapply Pre-emption Rights Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
for further specific Shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares for cash up to If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you an aggregate nominal value of 1,353,222 including Treasury should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, shares approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised of the Company as at 31 October 2018 and equivalent to under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Fidelity Platform Investors Authority to Repurchase Shares If you hold your shares in the Company through the Fidelity Resolution 13 is a special resolution which renews the Companys platform, you have the right to attend the Companys AGM and authority to purchase up to 14.99% 40,064,444 of ordinary shares vote on the proposed resolutions.
For the forthcoming AGMs and in issue excluding Treasury shares on 31 October 2018 either for future AGMs, the voting process will take place online.
Historically, immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury shares at the you would have received a Form of Direction and an Attendance determination of the Directors.
Once shares are held in Treasury, Card with instructions on how to vote in the post.
Fidelity will no the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance with the longer be providing paper forms of direction.
All Fidelity Platform relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for cash Investors will receive a letter setting out theprocess.
or by cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Directors and within guidelines set from Paperless Proxy Voting time to time by them in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Link Asset Services, the Registrar, will also be providing an online Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the process for voting on the resolutions to be proposed at the prevailing NAV per share.
Details of how this will work are included in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on pages 68 and 69.
There is Recommendation: The Board considers that each of an option to contact the Registrar to receive a paper proxy form the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the should this be preferred or required.
Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously If you have sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of all your recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
with any other accompanying documents as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or By Order of the Board other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for FIL Investments International onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Secretary 31 October 2018 At the AGM on 12 December 2018, resolutions will be proposed relating to the items of business set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 67 and 68, including the items of special business summarised opposite.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
