26 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Board of Directors Andy Irvine Nigel Foster Chairman since 5 July 2016 Appointed 1 September 2015 Appointed 15 April 2010 M N A M N Andy Irvine is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock North American Nigel Foster has over 35 years experience in the investment Income Trust plc.
He is a past Chairman of Montanaro European management industry.
Prior to joining the Board, he was a Managing Smaller Companies PLC and of Jones Lang La Salle Scotland and Director at BlackRock where he headed all market facing activities, has over 30 years experience in commercial property development including trading and capital markets for the EMEA region.
He is also a past Non-Executive Director of Securities also Global Head of Derivatives at BlackRock and predecessor firms Trust of Scotland PLC, a past Chairman of Celtic Rugby Limited, a past for 27 years.
He has led a number of prominent financial rescues and Chairman of the British and Irish Lions Limited and a past President of is the author of The Derivatives Game, a book that traces the story of the Scottish Rugby Union.
derivatives from ancient times to the present day.
Nicky McCabe Sharon Brown Appointed 9 December 2004 Senior Independent Director since 5 July 2016 Chairman of the Audit Committee since 26 October 2010 Appointed 15 April 2010 N Nicky McCabe is a Non-Executive Director of Artemis Fund Managers, Aberdeen Asian Income Fund Limited, Bristol University, Vitality Life A M N Limited and Discovery Holdings Europe Limited.
She was previously Head of Fidelitys Investment Trusts, a Director and Chief Operating Sharon Brown is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Officer of several Fidelity companies, having joined Fidelity in 1999 as Committee of F&C Capital and Income Investment Trust PLC, McColls Head of Investment Administration.
Prior to this, she worked for HSBC Retail Group plc and Celtic PLC.
She is also a Director of a number of Asset Management and McKinsey & Co. limited companies in the retail sector.
Between 1998 and 2013 she was Finance Director of Dobbies Garden Centres plc.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Dean Buckley Appointed 3 November 2015 A M N Dean Buckley is a Non-Executive Director of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc, Smith & Williamson Fund Administration Ltd and Saunderson House Ltd.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer at Scottish Widows Investment Partnership.
Prior to this, he held several positions at HSBC Bank plc, including Chief Executive Officer for HSBC Asset Management UK and Middle East and Chief Investment Officer for HSBC Asset Management, European equities, and held a number of senior fund manager positions at Prudential Portfolio Managers.
Heis a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
All Directors are Non-Executive Directors and all are independent, with the exception of Nicky McCabe.
Committee membership key A Audit M Management Engagement N Nomination Committee Chair
