09 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report Investment Policy of the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio The Company seeks to meet its investment objective through Managers Review on pages 2 to 6 form part of the Strategic investment in a diversified portfolio of securities and instruments Report.
issued by or related to predominantly UK listed companies.
Business and Status The Company will have a blend of investments in larger, medium The Company carries on business as an investment company and smaller-sized companies and be guided by a contrarian and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by philosophy.
HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to The Portfolio Manager has a contrarian style which focuses on meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that significant valuation anomalies in stocks which are out of favour the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will with other investors, yet show potential for change.
The Portfolio satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
Manager believes these opportunities exist across the market capitalisation spectrum, and the investment approach is flexible, The Company is registered as an investment company under with positions in large, medium and smaller sized companies.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares The proportions in each size category may vary over time, as are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a investment opportunities are selected on a bottom up basis.
close company and has no employees.
Investments typically have the following characteristics: Objective The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth Unrecognised potential for positive change: The Portfolio predominantly through investment in UK listed companies.
Manager wants to see evidence of the company embarking upon a period of positive change.
Once this change begins Strategy to be recognised by the market, there is potential for In order to achieve this objective, the Company operates as an substantial upside.
investment company and has an actively managed portfolio of special situation investments, consisting primarily of UK listed Limited downside risk: The Portfolio Manager invests in companies.
As an investment company, it is able to gear the companies where market expectations are low.
They will portfolio and the Board takes the view that long term returns for have some asset or characteristic that should prevent Shareholders can be enhanced by using gearing in a carefully significant falls in the share price.
The Benchmark of the Company against which performance is As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the measured is the FTSE All-Share Index.
management of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager aims to achieve a total return on The Company may invest directly in the shares of companies or the Companys assets over the longer term in excess of the indirectly through equity-related instruments such as derivative equivalent return on the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys contracts, warrants or convertible bonds and in debt instruments.
The stock selection approach adopted by the The Company may also invest in unquoted securities, subject to Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving the investment restrictions set out on page 10. this objective.
Derivatives The Companys objective, strategy and principal activity have The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including indexremained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 August 2018. linked notes, CFDs, covered options and other equity-related derivative instruments as a tool to meet the investment objectives As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 3, the of the Company.
Companys investment objective is being changed to bring it more in line with the phraseology of the Companys Key Derivatives usage will focus on, but not be limited to the following Information Document.
investment strategies: Investment Management Philosophy, Style and Focus As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans or bonds.
Fidelitys distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock The Company will purchase long CFDs that achieve an picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying equivalent effect to bank gearing but normally at lower strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
analysts evaluate companies, meet their management and workforce and interpret the effects of international and local To hedge equity market risks where the Portfolio Manager events.
This first hand research is fundamental to Fidelitys ability considers that suitable protection can be purchased to limit to seek the success stories of the future.
The Portfolio Manager the downside of a falling market at a reasonable cost: and works closely with the Fidelity analyst team and also has access to a wide range of research produced by third parties.
By taking short exposures on stocks that the Portfolio Manager considers to be over-valued.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 10 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued The Company will not undertake any naked shorts.
of Performance Charts and the Attribution Analysis are set out on pages 14 to 25.
The Board recognises that investing in equities Gearing is a long term process and that the Companys returns will vary The Company may use gearing to enhance long term capital from year to year.
The maximum level of gross gearing defined in the Glossary of Terms on page 75 is 140%.
Within this limit The Companys results for the year ended 31 August 2018 are set the Portfolio Manager has the discretion to use a range of out in the Income Statement on page 45.
The revenue return was instruments for gearing, such as debt and CFDs, depending 5.70 pence and the capital return was 16.29 pence, giving a total on the relative cost and availability of those instruments.
It return of 21.99 pence per ordinary share.
is the current intention of the Board that, in normal market circumstances, the Portfolio Manager will maintain net gearing The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.15 pence per defined in the Glossary of Terms on page 75 in the range of ordinary share be paid on 16 January 2019 to Shareholders who 100% to 120%.
The level of gearing is considered by the Board at appear on the register as at the close of business on 7December each of its meetings.
This is in addition to the interim dividend of 1.85 pence paid on 19 June 2018.
Currency The Company does not carry out currency speculation.
However, Key Performance Indicators as a sterling based fund, investments can be made in stocks The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the in overseas currencies and the Portfolio Manager can reduce performance of the Company and which are comparable to currency exposure through the use of CFDs.
those reported by other investment companies are set out below.
Investment Restrictions Shareholder Total Returns The Company will invest and manage its assets with an objective Share price total return for the 1 year 3 years 5 years of spreading risk through the following investment restrictions: year ended 31 August % % % 1 No single investment excluding cash and cash equivalents, Fidelity Special Values PLC 14.0 47.7 81.3 nor the aggregate investment in any one company, shall 2 Low risk investment 0.6 1.5 2.6 represent more than 10% of the Companys portfolio, measured as at the time of investment: 3 Benchmark Index 4.7 33.7 44.1 4 Peer group 10.3 31.1 63.3 No more than 20% of the portfolio will be invested in companies listed on overseas exchanges: NAV Total Returns The Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets Net asset value total return for 1 year 3 years 5 years in unquoted securities: and the year ended 31 August % % % 1 The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross Fidelity Special Values PLC 8.7 42.3 69.0 assets at the time of investment in listed investment 3 Benchmark Index 4.7 33.7 44.1 companies including listed investment trusts, including no more than 10% at the time of investment, of its gross assets 4 Peer group 8.7 33.1 60.6 in funds that do not have stated policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in other listed closed-ended Premium Discount investment funds.
Premium Discount as at 2018 2015 2013 Dividend Policy 31August % % % The portfolio is managed actively in pursuit of capital growth.
Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.5 2.0 5.0 Hence, in any one year the dividend income received from 4 investments will vary according to which stocks are owned during Peer group 7.9 5.9 7.4 the reporting period and so will the dividend paid.
In order to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Company Ongoing charges is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to Ongoing charges for the year 2018 2015 2013 distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than 15% 5 ended 31 August % % % of its net income in any reporting year.
Fidelity Special Values PLC 1.04 1.10 1.21 Performance, Results and Dividends The Companys performance for the year ended 31 August 2018, 1 Total returns include reinvested income.
including a summary of the years activities and indications of 2 UK Interbank 3 month bid rate banks or building societies.
trends and factors that may impact the future performance of 3 FTSE All-Share Index.
4 AIC UK All Companies sector.
the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement and the 5 Defined in the Glossary of Terms on page 76.
Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 to 6.
The Portfolio Listing, Sources: Fidelity and Datastream.
the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Ten Year Record, the Summary 11 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board also monitors The risks identified are placed on the Companys risk matrix and the factors contributing to investment results, as set out in the graded appropriately.
This process, together with the policies and Attribution Analysis on page 25.
Long term performance is procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed also monitored and the Ten Year Record and Summary of regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by the Performance Charts showing this information are on pages 22 Audit Committee.
The Board determines the nature and extent to24.
of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate The Manager also has responsibility for risk management for the Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks principal risks and uncertainties and to ensure that the Board can and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board, with the continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
assistance of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager FIL Investment Services UK Limited the Manager, has developed The Board considers the following as the principal risks and a risk matrix which, as part of the risk management and internal uncertainties faced by the Company.
There have been no changes controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
to these since the prior year.
EXTERNAL RISKS Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore Market Risk market related such as market downturn, interest rate movements and deflation inflation.
Risks to which the Company is exposed to in the market risk category are included in Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 58 to 63 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
Share prices are volatile and volatility is a risk for the short term Shareholder likely to want to Share Price Risk sell in the near future.
The Board does not believe that volatility would be a significant risk for the long term Shareholder.
The price of the Companys shares and its discount to NAV are factors which are not within the Discount Control Risk Companys total control.
However, the Board can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares through good performance and an active investor relations program.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board regularly.
The Company may be impacted by changes in legislation, taxation or regulation.
These are Regulatory Risk monitored at each Board meeting and managed through active lobbying by the Manager.
The risk posed by cybercrime is significant and the Board receives regular updates from the Cybercrime Risk Manager in respect of the type and possible scale of cyberattacks.
The Managers technology team has developed a number of initiatives and controls in order to provide enhanced mitigating protection to this ever increasing threat.
INTERNAL RISKS Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions Investment based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the Management Risk performance of the asset value of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and its competitors and also considers the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long term investment performance as there is a risk for the Company of volatility of performance in the shorter term.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 12 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, principally the Manager, Operational Risks Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
It is dependent on the effective operation of the Service Providers Managers control systems and those of its service providers with regard to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements.
They are all subject to a risk-based program of internal audits by the Manager.
In addition, service providers own internal control reports are received by the Board on an annual basis and any concerns investigated.
Risks associated with these services are generally rated as low, although the financial consequences could be serious, including reputational damage to the Company.
Continuation Vote The Managers compliance with the Companys investment A continuation vote takes place every three years.
There is a risk objective, its investment strategy and asset allocation: that Shareholders do not vote in favour of continuation during periods when performance of the Companys NAV and share The portfolio comprises sufficient readily realisable price is poor.
At the AGM held on 13 December 2016, 99.97% of securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if Shareholders voted in favour of the continuation of the Company.
necessary: The next continuation vote will take place at the AGM in 2019.
The Boards discount management policy: and Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and income which are considered to be reasonable in of the Company over a longer period than the twelve month comparison to the Companys total assets.
period required by the Going Concern basis.
The Company is an investment trust with the objective of achieving long term In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability capital growth.
The Board considers long term to be at least five to operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going years and accordingly, the Directors believe that five years is Concern Statement in the Directors Report on page 27.
The an appropriate investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company is also subject to a continuation vote at the AGM Company, although the life of the Company is not intended to be in2019 and the Board expect that the vote, when due, will limited to this or any other period.
In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the Board Diversity Board has considered the following: The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at prevailing market conditions: 31August 2018, there were two female and three male Directors on the Board.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, asset out above, and their potential impact: Employee, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues The Company has no employees, all of its Directors are nonThe future demand for the Companys shares: executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to make in respect of The Companys share price relative to the NAV: employees.
The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: The Fidelity group of companies including the Manager, Fil Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments The level of income generated by the Company: and International encourages Environmental, Social and Governance ESG factors in its investment decision making process.
It has Future income and expenditure forecasts.
been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual report The Companys performance has been strong over the five year detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
reporting period to 31 August 2018, with a NAV total return of 69.0%, a share price total return of 81.3% and a Benchmark The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it Index return of 44.1%.
The Board regularly reviews the investment has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
policy and considers whether it remains appropriate.
The Board As an investment company, the Company does not provide has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the goods and services in the normal course of business and has no Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its customers.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Company is liabilities as they fall due over the next five years based on the not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. following considerations: 13 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measureable carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Socially Responsible Investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys Shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Corporate Engagement The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
It delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and Shareholder voting to the Manager who updates the Board on issues and activities.
These activities are reviewed regularly by the Managers corporate governance team.
Further details of the Managers policy on corporate engagement can be found at www.
Future Developments Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are also common to many investment companies together with the impact of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect the Companys future development, performance and positions are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 2 to 6.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 31 October 2018 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
