Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 08 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Nick Train Lindsell Train Limited Portfolio Manager Im pleased that Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC FGT By the way, sometimes people question how our returns can has delivered another year of respectable absolute returns and be so competitive given that we do so little trading and outperformance of its benchmark.
But this means - more than portfolio turnover is so low.
For them it seems odd, because ever that it is important for me to convey to shareholders they associate strong performance with active trading.
But as that our performance seems as remarkable and perhaps described above there is more than one type of portfolio unsustainable to us as it should to them.
Our portfolio which rarely changes may actually be account for why the strategy has done as well as it has for as taking much more active risk than a fund with dozens of long as it has and so must assume that luck has played a part holdings which change all the time.
Because the shape of our along the way.
And in that case one can be sure that luck will portfolio is so very different from the shape of its benchmark.
work against us at some point and that a run of bad luck or Next, another source of risk for FGT is the global economy.
bad judgements by us at Lindsell Train could put a dent in Here you might expect me to cite Brexit, US politics or Interest FGTs returns.
This is especially so when you consider the Rates as reasons to worry.
Of course following two factors: the concentration of FGTs portfolio and none of these is trivial and they will quite reasonably the current state of the global economy.
precipitate ups and downs in share prices in months to come.
As to the first, the portfolio is notably concentrated and But none of the above seems to us to be materially more indeed, after the takeover of two big positions last year worrisome than a multitude of other previously agonised Dr. Pepper Snapple and Fidessa the concentration has about macro-economic or political scares.
Believe me: Ive become even more so.
Today there are only c20 holdings and lived through countless macro shocks over the course of a the top ten accounts for nearly 80% of portfolio value.
And markets muddled through only take one or two of that top ten to go wrong to put a hole most of them.
To demonstrate that this is no idle worry, But there truly are real reasons to be cautious about individual shareholders should remember that Pearson was once a top companies and even industry sectors today.
And these reasons ten holding for us.
We were fortunate that Pearsons dire share are in some cases existential.
In other words in some cases price performance for most of the last 5 years was one is forced to ask: is a given company or industry actually compensated by other investments doing much better.
even going to exist in, lets say, 10 years time?
In fact we Ofcourse, were happy to report Pearson has had a better expect there to be many corporate casualties over the next year in 2018, as a business and share price.
The reason is captured in this quote from Charlie Another way to think about the concentration risk in FGT is to Munger, Warren Buffetts long term business partner: note that the portfolio is only exposed to c8% of the FTSE The great lesson in microeconomics is to discriminate All-Share Index.
What I mean by this is that when you add up between when technology is going to help you and when it is the actual index weights of all the FGT holdings that are also going to kill you.
And most people do not get this straight in constituents of the FTSE All-Share you get a total of only 8%.
In other words, you should expect FGTs portfolio to perform This quote seems particularly pertinent in 2018.
I cannot very differently to the FTSE All-Share Index over time, because remember a period when so much stock market value has only 8% of the portfolio overlaps with the Index.
And that been created so quickly by what are still very young number would have been even lower if Unilevers plan to exit companies.
Of course I mean the Internet giants.
And its the FTSE All-Share Index had been approved.
Our very high sobering to consider that the entire Internet phenomenon has active share 92% as it is called, has been helpful to our been with us for little more than 8,000 days.
So much stock performance when weve been getting it right.
But it could market value created in 8,000 days, but so much destroyed easily cut the other way, particularly if big sectors to which we too.
Everywhere we look we see industry sectors that provided have no exposure, like Oil or Mining, put in sustained good reliable and attractive investment returns through much of the performance.
Twentieth Century stumbling and in some cases dwindling as we get into the Twenty First century proper.
Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 09 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review As an example of how everyone should be thinking - although declining position in FGT over the last few years it started the we sincerely hope not an example of a stumbling business - year at 0.8% of the portfolio and was 0.1% as at 30 September we recently met with the new CEO of the London Stock 2018, but it still rankles that I wasnt smarter in reacting to the Exchange, David Schwimmer.
LSE has been a big winner for unfolding challenges.
But a much bigger holding and one that FGT in 2018 and for many years previously.
But we werent has performed particularly poorly during 2018 is Sage, the surprised to hear the new CEO describe his feelings about accounting software company.
Here the technology shift taking on his job as leader of this great 200 plus year old toward cloud services has disrupted Sages traditional deskfranchise.
Im paranoid about top business and allowed new competitors to take share from technology.
And hes certainly right to be paranoid history the company.
We had thought - and in truth still do think - that shows many instances of liquidity draining away forever from Sages very substantial, sticky and global customer base will markets and even cities when trade flows shift or technology generate enough cash in coming years to allow the company changes.
Lets hope David Schwimmer isnt out of his depth to respond.
But its a warning that even past technology sorry!.
He comes across as extremely sensible and is certainly success and overall Sage has been a fantastic winner over the well qualified to safely negotiate the doubtless enormous last 25years is no guarantee of future success.
changes for all Exchanges over the next decade.
So far in this report I have deliberately looked to the possible It is one thing to be aware of the technology risks we worry downside and highlighted risks.
After such a long period of about little else but quite another to stay on the right side of outperformance for our investment approach Im sure this is it.
First, weve sought to concentrate the right thing.
But I hope you wont find it contradictory if I FGTs portfolio on companies where the Internet is going to now tell you that I have been a regular buyer of FGT shares for help, in Charlie Mungers parlance, and to avoid those that myself and my family through 2018.
I have been so because I may be killed.
So far were pleased with ourselves in sticking to regard the portfolio as a store of value that I expect will deliver and building the holdings in Burberry, Hargreaves Lansdown much more growth and income.
As a shareholder I was and RELX which are all companies that have found ways to delighted by the dividend increase your board was able to harness digital to reach more customers with their products or announce this year, up nearly 8% to 15.3p.
Thats an increase services in ways that benefit both customers and the driven by the underlying dividend growth of the companies in companies.
Next and very important in terms of the shape of the portfolio, many of which have long and proud histories of FGTs portfolio, were still confident that the unique and dividend growth which we are not expecting to end any time beloved tastes of certain beverage and food brands will soon.
I cant help thinking back to the first dividend FGT paid remain both beloved and hard for new technology to under Lindsell Trains stewardship, back in 2001, of 3.2p.
The new CEO of Mondelez a major FGT holding 3.2p to 15.3p is a compound rate of dividend growth of pointed out this year that the #1 biscuit brand ordered online c9.5%per annum over 17 years.
It will take all kinds of luck for in the US is Oreo and the #1 chocolate ordered online in the me still to be reporting to you in 2035 although I can dream UK is Cadbury.
Both brands belong to Mondelez and, of and even more luck and good judgement will be required to course, both are the leading bricks and mortar brands too.
His maintain a compound dividend growth rate of nearly 10% over conclusion was that brands that consumers really have an the next 17 years.
But if all these did come to pass Im sure emotional loyalty to will continue to do just fine.
In some that all shareholders will be well satisfied.
confirmation of this continuing resonance of beloved brands we note that during 2018 there have been new all-time share Nick Train price highs recorded for FGT portfolio holdings such as AG Director Barr IRN-BRU, of course, Diageo, Heineken, Remy Cointreau Lindsell Train Limited and Youngs.
Manchester United too has hit an all-time high in 2018.
Like those others it offers a unique and highly valued Portfolio Manager consumer experience.
17 December 2018 But I must acknowledge mistakes: at least short term ones despite our best efforts.
We certainly hold companies where other investors have their doubts about the continuing relevance of a previously successful business model.
For instance, life has got tougher more quickly than I would have expected for Greene Kings pub estate, where online meal-ordering services have definitely taken a bite out of the casual dining market.
Fortunately Greene King has been a FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
