Our markets Transport links are essential for economic Local and national growth and for communities to flourish.
authorities As good transportation services deliver such a wide All of our services are critical enablers of economic range of social and economic benefits, many of our growth and improving quality of life for people and services are mandated or financially supported by the communities.
People need to travel for a wide range of communities they serve.
Indeed, all of our divisions either emerged from, or compete alongside, publicly reasons business, education, healthcare, social and funded models of transport provision.
In all cases, recreation and across our five divisions, FirstGroup private sector operators such as FirstGroup have been responds to these needs for our customers.
While given the opportunity to operate services commercially in order to increase competition improvingvalue for each of our markets has some unique characteristics, money and efficiency and bring innovation and agility several key themes are important to each of them.
in an increasingly fast-moving and complex environment.
Across the Group a variety of funding andspecification models exist, with varying degrees ofreliance on local and national authorities.
Offering value for money, ensuring we are good partners for our communities and listening to our customers are critical Urbanisation success factors across the Group.
The world is becoming increasingly urbanised and globalised.
Thefalling cost andincreasing efficiency oftransport links help create inter-connected economies, even as more people and economic activity move into urban areas.
More than halfof global GDP isalready generated in the largest 600 cities, and more than halfthe worlds population today already live in urban areas and both trends are set to increase.
Despite ever more sophisticated forms of long distance communication, the rapid rise of cities globally is expected to continue, given the importance of face-to-face interactions in increasingly knowledgebased economies.
Transport links within cities such asthose provided by FirstTransit and First Bus and between them such as provided by Greyhound and First Rail will continue to be an important driver and beneficiary of these trends.
Congestion With 1.5m people globally moving to urban areas eachweek, maintaining mobility within cities despite this increasing population density isa key priority, and itis clear that an approach based primarily onthe car isno longer sufficient.
Some estimates put the annual cost of congestion to the average UK driver at almost 1,000 a year.
The cost is also counted in air quality degradation and higher carbon emissions.
It is clear that increasing use of public transport systems is vital to the continued prosperity of cities.
Whilst our businesses can also be affected by congestion day-to-day, they clearly form part of the long term solution byallowing travellers toleave their cars behind.
We also striveto be at theforefront of technologies to minimise our own environmental footprint, asoutlined in the corporate responsibility section on page 23.
08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Demographic change Transport solutions also needto take account of demographic changes.
Many segments of our communities such as those in education, retired or unable to drive themselves have always beenmore reliant on mass transportation.
With a rapidly aging population in many parts of the world, this proportion isset to increase.
Increasing numbers of particularly young urban dwellers are also choosing notto drive atall, given the costs ofbuying and maintaining a car and the issues of parking and sustainability.
There is agrowing demographic which isopen to using our services provided we meet its needs, and we are specifically targeting these customers particularly inGreyhound andFirst Bus.
Geographic markets Our core markets in the UK andNorth America share several demographic, socialand political characteristics whichmake them attractive fortransport operators.
Both areheavily and increasingly urbanised just over 80% of the population in the UK and North America live in urban areas today, increasing to nearly 90% by 2050.
High andincreasing proportions of both populations are either in education or retirement age, demographic bands where useof our services is proportionately higher.
Although car ownership is relatively highin both markets, national and local authorities actively seek to encourage greateruse ofalternatives.
Both markets also have long histories of deregulating and outsourcing transport solutions, with mature business models andregulatory frameworks that encourage partnering with the private sector for transport infrastructure and services.
Inthe longer term, we believe there is significant opportunity globally for the services we provide, and we are actively monitoring arange of markets for opportunities.
Service standards Customers requirements forsafety, comfort and convenience continue to increase.
The multiplication ofpotential transport modes and competition betweenoperators continues to drive up quality andperformance standards throughout the industry.
Our customers requirements are complex and constantly evolving, and responding to their needs iscritical.
Interconnectivity between different transportmodes is increasingly important, as is theprovision of the real-time information necessary tomake best use of them.
In all of our divisions we arerolling out more convenient services through smarter and more flexible ticketing, improved onboardamenities such as Wi-Fi and getting toknowour customers needs better through customer relationship management techniques.
For more information Meanwhile the growth of transport as a service on the market models, such as ridesharing, represents both an environment for opportunity for our businesses as well as a source each of our divisions ofpotential competition.
please go to the business review section starting on page 12.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09
