Governance Directors report and additional disclosures The Directors present their report on the Powers of the Directors Share capital affairsof the Group, together with the audited The Directors are responsible for the As at 31 March 2018, the Companys issued financial statements and the report of the management of the business of the share capital was 1,210,832,034 ordinary auditor for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Companyand may exercise all powers of shares of 5 pence, each credited as fully paid.
Information required to be disclosed in the theCompany subject to applicable legislation The Company holds 157,229 ordinary shares Directors report may be found below and and regulation and the Companys Articles.
in treasury, andthe issued share capital of the inthe following sections of the Annual Report Company which carries voting rights of one Directors indemnities and Accounts, in accordance with the vote per share comprises 1,210,674,805 and liability insurance Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and ordinary shares.
Further details of the FirstGroup maintains liability insurance for its Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the Financial Conduct Companys issued share capital are shown in Directors and Officers.
The Company has also Authority the FCA : note 27 tothe Companys financial statements.
granted indemnities to each of the Directors aswell as the General Counsel & Company The Companys shares are listed on the Information Section Page Secretary, the Group Director of Finance, the London Stock Exchange.
Sustainability Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasury governance and Substantial shareholdings & Tax Director, the Chief Information Officer, greenhouse Corporate As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been the Greyhound President and an Officer of gasemissions responsibility 23 notified under the FCAs Disclosure, Guidance FGICanada to the extent permitted by law.
and Transparency Rule DGTR 5 of the Likely future Chief These indemnities are uncapped in amount, developments Executives following interests in its total voting rights of inrelation to certain losses and liabilities inthe business report 7 3%or more: whichthey may incur to third parties in the Risk factors and course of acting as a Director or Officer or Number of % of total principal risks: Principal ordinary voting Company Secretary as the case may be going concern and risksand Name of holder shares rights ofthe Company or any of its associated viability statements uncertainties 34 and 44 Vidacos Nominees companies.
In the case of Group Director Governance Ltd HSBC ofFinance, the Group Financial Controller, arrangements: Custody Nominees theGroup Treasury & Tax Director, the Chief human rights and Corporate Australia Ltd 71,695,290 5.95 Information Officer, the Greyhound President anti-corruption and Governance Schroders plc 64,283,712 5.33 and an Officer of FGICanada the indemnities bribery matters report 50 are limited to their actions as Directors of Jupiter Asset Directors specific associated companies.
Neither the Management Long term remuneration indemnity nor insurance cover provides Limited 60,603,024 5.03 incentiveschemes report 85 coverin the event that a Director or Officer Vidacos Financial orCompany Secretary as the case may be NomineesLtd 59,397,756 4.93 instruments and isproved to have acted fraudulently or related market Financial dishonestly.
The indemnity is categorised There have been no further notifications transactions statements 130 asaqualifying third-party indemnity for the between 31 March 2018 and the date of purposes of the 2006 Act and will continue in thisreport.
Directors force for the benefit of Directors or Officers or The Directors of the Company who served Articles of Association Company Secretary as the case may be on during the year and their biographical details The description in this section summarises an ongoing basis.
Richard Adam certain provisions of the Companys Articles and Tim OToole stood down from the Board and applicable Scottish law concerning on 2 February and 31 May 2018 separately.
This summary is qualified in Details of Directors interests in shares can be itsentirety by reference to this Companys found in the Directors remuneration report on Articles and the 2006 Act.
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interest in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract of significance in relation to the Companys business.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Directors report and additional disclosures continued Shares Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share In the US it is far more common for businesses The rights attached to the ordinary shares of Incentive Plan, also known as BAYE, to participate in the political process through a the Company are defined in the Companys employees buy Partnership Shares and variety of methods.
During the year the Articles.
No person has any special rights of receive Matching Shares in the Company.
In Groups US businesses incurred political control over the Companys share capital and order to preserve certain tax benefits these expenditure in the US of $18,948 2016 17: all issued shares are fully paid.
shares are held in a trust by Computershare $67,748 in the support of their business goals.
Whilst these shares are held in The Group has fully complied with jurisdictional Voting rights trust, the voting rights attached to them are reporting of these contributions.
Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at exercised by the trustee, but only at the any general meeting of the Company.
It is the No other political donations or expenditure direction of the employees.
Companys practice to hold a poll on every was incurred by the Company and its resolution at general meetings.
Every member All of the Companys employee share plans subsidiaries during 2017 18. present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, contain provisions relating to change of Change of control significant one vote for every share held.
On a change of control, options and agreements joint holders of a share the vote of the senior awards granted to employees may vest and Financing agreements who tenders a vote, whether in person or by become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction The Group has a 800m multi-currency proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the of any applicable performance conditions at revolving credit and guarantee facility between, votes of the other joint holders and, for this the time.
amongst others, the Company and The Royal purpose, seniority shall be determined by the Further details on the Companys employee Bank of Scotland plc dated 22 March 2017. order in which the names stand in the Register share plans can be found in the Directors This refinanced the Groups existing revolving of Members in respect of the joint holding.
The remuneration report on page 68. credit and guarantee facility.
Following any Notice of the 2018 AGM accompanying this change of control of the Company, individual document specifies the deadlines for Purchase of own shares lenders may negotiate with the Company with exercising voting rights.
At the AGM of the Company in 2017 authority a view to resolving any concerns arising from was granted for the Company to purchase up Dividend rights such change of control.
If the matter has not to 10% of its ordinary shares.
During the year Shareholders may by ordinary resolution been resolved within 30 days, an individual no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under the declare dividends but the amount of the bank may cancel its commitment and the existing authority the Company may purchase dividend may not exceed the amount Company must repay the relevant proportion up to 120,791,435 ordinary shares.
This recommended by the Board.
The Directors of any drawdown.
authority remains in place until the 2018 are not recommending the payment of a final AGM, when the company intends in to seek The US$100m 4.17% notes due 2025, dividend this year.
US$175m 4.29% notes due 2028, the 250m Transfer of shares 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 350m 8.750% Political donations There are no specific restrictions on the size of bonds due 2021, the 200m 6.875% bonds a holding nor on the transfer of shares which At the 2017 AGM, shareholders passed a due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due are both governed by the general provisions of resolution to authorise the Company and its 2022 issued by the Company may also be the Companys Articles and prevailing subsidiaries to make political donations to affected by a change of control of the legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any political parties or independent election Company.
In respect of the 350m 8.750% agreements between holders of the candidates, to other political organisations, or bonds due 2021, the 200m 6.875% bonds Companys shares that may result in to incur political expenditure as such terms due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due restrictions on the transfer of securities or on are defined in sections 362 to 379 of the 2006 2022, upon a change of control of the voting rights at any meeting of the Company.
Act, in each case in amounts not exceeding Company, provided that certain further 100,000 in aggregate.
As the authority thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the Employee share plans granted at the 2017 AGM will expire, renewal bonds are met, the bondholders have the The Company operates a number of of this authority will be sought at this years option to require the Company to redeem the employee share plans, details of which are set AGM.
Further details are available in the Notice bonds.
In respect of the US$100m 4.17% out in note 35 to the consolidated financial of AGM.
As a result of the broad definition notes due 2025, US$175m 4.29% notes due statements.
Kleinwort Benson Guernsey used in the 2006 Act of matters constituting 2028, upon a change of control, the Company Trustees Limited, as trustee of the FirstGroup political donations, it is possible that normal must make an offer to noteholders to prepay plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT, holds shares business activities, which might not be thought the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes in the Company in trust in order to satisfy to be political expenditure in the usual sense, held by each bondholder at par together with awards made to participants under the could be caught.
Accordingly, authority is interest accrued thereon.
The EBT being sought as a precaution to ensure that waives its rights to vote and to dividends on the Companys normal business activities do the shares it holds which are unallocated.
not infringe the 2006 Act, but it is not the policy of the Company to make donations to EU political organisations or to incur other political expenditure in the EU.
96 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance First Rail Significant shareholders agreements The Groups franchised passenger rail The Group, through First Rail Holdings Limited, operators, First TransPennine Express Limited, has shareholders agreements governing its relationship with MTR Corporation in relation First Greater Western Limited First MTR South tothe South Western rail franchise and with Western Trains Limited jointly owned with Trenitalia for the purposes of bidding for and, MTR Corporation are each party to a ifsuccessful, operating the West Coast franchise agreement with the Secretary of Partnership and East Midlands franchises.
These franchise Asis customary, these agreements include agreements are subject to termination clauses provisions addressing change of control.
which may apply on a change of control.
First MTR South Western Trains Limited, First Post-balance sheet events TransPennine Express Limited and First There have been no material post-balance Greater Western Limited and the Groups sheet events as at the date of this report.
non-franchised rail operator, Hull Trains Company Limited, each hold railway licences Employee involvement and policies as required by the Railways Act 1993 as concerning disabled employees amended : these licences may be revoked on Throughout the Group, regular dialogue is three months notice if a change of control maintained with employee representatives, occurs without the approval of the Office of including trade unions.
Each division has Rail and Road.
All of these operators also itsown information and consultation require and hold track access agreements arrangements, with employees being with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under represented by more than 30 different unions.
which they are permitted to access railway Across the group, full and fair consideration infrastructure.
Failure by any of the operators isgiven to applications for employment by tomaintain its railway licence is a potential people with disabilities.
We are committed to termination event under the terms of the track supporting disabled employees, including access agreements.
The Groups railway employees who become disabled during their operators also lease rolling stock from employment, with regards to training, career specialist rolling stock leasing companies such development and promotion.
as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
Management report Amaterial number of the individual leasing The Strategic and Directors reports together agreements include change of control are the management report for the purposes provisions.
The Group is also involved from of the FCAs DGTR 4.1.
time to time in bidding processes for UK rail The Strategic report was approved on behalf franchises and transport contracts further of the Board on 31 May 2018. afield which customarily include change in circumstance provisions which would be Michael Hampson triggered on a change of control and could General Counsel & Company Secretary result in termination or rejection from further 31 May 2018 participation in the relevant competitions.
395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97
