Board of Directors N Tim OToole CBE Matthew Gregory Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Appointed: 2015 Appointed: 2009 and became Chief Executive Appointed: 2015 Key areas of expertise: Governance, in2010 Key areas of expertise: Finance, M&A Strategy, Safety, Quality Assurance Key areas of expertise: Transportation, Skills and experience: Matthew has strong Skills and experience: Starting his career Strategy, Safety financial and operational expertise, including with various research activities covering Skills and experience: Tim brings to the Board strategic and financial planning and control, alsoroad traffic safety, Wolfhart went on a wealth of international transport management aswell as extensive international experience toestablish and lead a broad range of experience gained over a number of years in the ofdriving performance improvement and successful international serviceindustry sector.
Prior to joining the Company, he was restructuring.
Former Group Finance Director businesses.
He was Chief Executive of Managing Director, London Underground, having of Essentra plc, having previously been Intertek Group plc for ten years until he previously been at Transport for London.
He was Director of Corporate Development as well as retired in May 2015.
He was previously President and Chief Executive of Consolidated having held a number of senior finance roles.
ChiefExecutive Officer CEO and President Rail Corporation and a Non-Executive Director His early career was spent at Rank Group plc of TV Sddeutschland AG for four years ofCSX Corporation until March 2017. and Ernst & Young.
and CEO of TV Product Services GmbH Other appointments:Independent NonNationality: British for ten years.
Executive Director of Edison International and Other appointments: Independent Southern California Edison and board member Non-Executive Director of Associated British atthe US National Safety Council since Foods plc and Senior Independent Director September 2017. of RELX PLC.
Nationality: American British Nationality: German N R A A R Drummond Hall Martha Poulter David Robbie Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2017 Appointed: 2 February 2018 Key areas of expertise: Marketing, Strategy Key areas of expertise: IT, Business Key areas of expertise: Corporate Skills and experience: Drummond brings Process Transformation, Cyber Security Finance, Strategy tothe Board a wealth of experience gained Skills and experience: Marthas experience Skills and experience: David brings a across a number of customer-focused in technology spans the telecommunications, wealthof financial, accounting, strategic and businesses in the UK, Europe and the US.
financial services and hospitality industries.
corporate finance experience and skills to Hewas formerly Chief Executive of Dairy Crest She was most recently the Executive Vice theBoard.
He was Finance Director of Rexam Group plc, prior to which his career was spent President and Chief Information Officer CIO PLC from 2005 until its acquisition by Ball mainly with Procter & Gamble, Mars and of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Corporation in 2016.
Prior to his role at Rexam, PepsiCo.
He has also been Chairman and a and, prior to that, she was Vice President David served in senior finance roles atBTR plc Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers ofGeneral Electric and CIO of GE Capital before becoming Group Finance Director at plc and a Non-Executive Director of Taylor withglobal responsibility for IT strategy CMG plc in 2000 and then Chief Financial Nelson Sofres PLC.
Officer at Royal P&O Nedloyd N. V. in 2004.
Other appointments: Senior Independent Other appointments: Senior Vice President Heserved as a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director and Chair of the and CIO of Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. theBBC between 2006 and 2010 and as Remuneration Committee of WH Smith plc Nationality: American Chairman of their Audit Committee.
David and of The Sage Group plc.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant atKPMG.
Nationality: British Nationality: British 46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board Committees A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee B Board Safety Committee Chair A B Warwick Brady Jimmy Groombridge Independent Non-Executive Director Group Employee Director Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2017 Key areas of expertise: Transportation Key areas of expertise: Transportation, Skills and experience: Warwick has a Employee Relations, Employee Engagement, Executive Committee strong track record of delivering restructuring, Safety cost reduction and modernisation Skills and experience: Jimmy was a bus In addition to the Chief Executive, who chairsit, and programmes.
His previous roles include Chief driver for almost 40 years.
He is currently an the Chief Financial Officer, itsmembers are: Executive of Mandala Airlines in Asia, Deputy employee of First Eastern Counties, where he Operations Director at Ryanair plc and Chief served as Employee Director for more than a Constance Baroudel Operating Officer at Air Deccan Kingfisher in decade.
He had also served as the regional Director of Strategy & Operational Performance India and easyJet plc.
Warwick also held Employee Director for Norfolk and Essex.
Rachael Borthwick board positions at Airline Group and NATS, Safety is a passion for Jimmy and as such he Group Corporate Services Director the UKs airspace provider, and was Deputy is a champion of our Group Safety programme CEO of Buzz.
Having worked on projects for Giles Fearnley Other appointments: CEO of Stobart Group different departments within FirstGroup, he Managing Director, First Bus Ltd and strategic Board Advisor at Vistair has a unique wealth of experience of Michael Hampson Systems Ltd. employee engagement.
General Counsel & Company Secretary Nationality: British Nationality: British Dave Leach President, Greyhound Dennis Maple President, First Student Steve Montgomery Managing Director, First Rail Brad Thomas President, First Transit R N B B N A Imelda Walsh Jim Winestock Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2012 Key areas of expertise: Remuneration, HR, Key areas of expertise: Distribution, Safety Governance Skills and experience: Jim brings to the Skills and experience: Imelda brings Board considerable operational experience considerable experience to the Board gained gained within a large complex organisation, across a number of sectors, as well as together with a trackrecord of achievement.
She He has served in a number of senior roles and was formerly Non-Executive Director and was a member of the management committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee of during his career at United Parcel Service, Inc, SainsburysBank plc, Mothercare plc and latterly as Senior Vice President and Director William Hill plc.
She has held seniorexecutive of US operations and global security with roles at J Sainsbury plc where she was Group responsibility for all US operations and HR Director, Barclays Bank plc andCoca- 360,000 employees.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of YRC Worldwide, Inc: also serves Director and Chair of the Remuneration on the Board of three not-for-profit Committee of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Nationality: British Nationality: American Board composition at 31 March 2018 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
