Our strategy and business model As a market leader in five segments of the passenger transport industry, our unique scale and diversity is our competitive advantage.
Our overall strategy is to leverage this scale and the breadth of ourglobal expertise for the benefit of our local markets, in support of our vision toprovide solutions for an increasingly congestedworld keeping people moving and communities prospering.
Our business model Key inputs Market leading transport solutions We provide transport solutions acrossour fivemarket leading divisions Our people Vehicle fleets, depots, First Student First Bus First Rail stations and terminals International experience First Transit Greyhound andexpertise Relationships with key Underpinned by ourValues localauthority and national government Committed to our customers Supportive of each other Setting the highest stakeholders We keep our customers at the We trust each other to standards heart of everythingwedo.
deliverandwork to help one We want to be the best, Reputation forsafe and another succeed.
continually seeking Dedicated to safety reliableservices abetterwayto dothings.
Always front of mind, safety is Accountable for performance our way oflife.
Every decision matters, we do the A stable financial platform right thing toachieveour goals.
How we manage thebusiness Leadership and governance Key performance Principal risks Remuneration policy Each of our five divisions is run in We take a holistic approach to risk A key principle underpinning the indicators KPIs a decentralised way so as to be management, first building a picture executive remuneration policy is to The Group focuses on financial and responsive to the needs of our local ofthe principal risks at divisional level, ensure it is aligned with the strategy non-financial KPIs which align to our customers.
All, however, are managed then consolidating those principal risks of the Group.
In addition, itprovides strategic objectives.
Financial KPIs are in compliance with the Groups overall alongside Group risks into a Group a strong and demonstrable link Group revenue, adjusted operating vision and values, and with regard to view.
All of our businesses are between incentives and performance profit, adjusted EPS, and ROCE, the strategic direction set bythe Group responsible for identifying, assessing delivery in a consistent and which together drive our cash flow central functions.
Our lean corporate and managing the risks they face responsible way, enables senior andvalue creation.
Non-financial KPIs centre focuses on fostering a high withappropriate assistance, review management to share in the long include contract retention, like-for-like performance culture, sets the strategic and challenge from the Group termsuccess of the Group without revenue growth, punctuality, safety, direction, raises and allocates capital, functions as necessary.
In 2018 we delivering over-generous benefits employee engagement, average develops and manages our talent, willimplement a new risk management orencouraging short term measures fleetage, customer and passenger establishes key targets and standards, system across the business as we or excessive risk taking, and is satisfaction, community investment monitors performance and provides seek to improve the quality of risk competitive, simple and transparent.
All of our businesses own management information generated and manage the risks theyface with by our businesses.
See pages 68-94 for our See pages 30-33 for more remuneration report.
appropriate assistance from the Group information on our KPIs.
See pages 34-39 for more information on our principal risks and uncertainties.
For more information on the Metrics which form part of the overall governance of the performance measures used to Group see pages 49-59. assess executive compensation.
10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Delivering our strategicobjectives Creating value for... We aim to deliver our vision and execute our strategy in our markets by focusing our experience andenergy Passengers at key points in the transport service value chain, which we recognise in our five strategicobjectives: Safe, convenient and reliable travel for2.1bn passengers eachyear 1 Focused and 3 Continuous improvement disciplinedbidding in in operating and financial The almost 50,000 vehicles we Communities and ourcontract businesses performance own across the Group are our government Almost half of our revenue is Our goal is to operate reliable, most significant capital assets, Stronger economies and more derived from around 1,400 convenient and safe transport which we mustinvest in to offer vibrant local communities contracts competitively services on comfortable vehicles the reliability and comfort our whilstproviding adeliverable procuredon behalf of staffed by helpful and qualified passengers want.
Wealsoinvest responseto congestion passengers by government employees, everyday, in all in our business systems and andairquality concerns bodies and other parties.
weathers, and despite sharing back office processes tosupport Formulating innovative and increasingly congested road and our other strategicobjectives.
Employees attractive bids withappropriate rail infrastructure with other users.
5 Rewarding long term professional Maintain responsible levels of risk and managing To do so we must constantly careers with opportunities to partnerships with our thedelivery of our commitments reinforce the highest standards develop and grow customers and communities in a range ofconstantly changing and seek out best practice from By its nature, the transport circumstances is a corestrength across the Group and beyond.
Shareholders industry involves the risk of injury of the Group.
We aim to bring thesame focus Sustainable cash generation and to passengers, employees and on discipline and continuous 2 Driving growth through valuecreation for shareholders third parties, which is why it is improvement to our financial attractive commercial central to our culture tokeep performance, managing propositions in our safety front of mind.
We have employee productivity, asset and passenger revenue reinforced this in recent years fuel efficiency, procurement, businesses with our Be Safe behaviour overheads, insurance and other Our other main source of revenue change programme.
We aim costs to ensure efficient use of is derived from direct ticket sales tobuild long term, responsible our resources and best value for to passengers, who represent partnerships with our customers our customers.
abroad demographic mix and and communities.
This includes use our services for avariety 4 Prudent investment managing our impact on the ofbusiness, commuting, inour fleets, systems environment.
Ultimately the socialand recreational reasons.
andpeople sustainability of our business Understanding and responding To continue to deliver over the istightly intertwined with the to the changing needs of our longer term it is vital that we aspirations, opportunities and local customers is therefore usethe considerable cash success of our customers critical to our success.
Akey generated from operating andcommunities.
part of our strategy is to innovate activities to reinvest appropriately through technology for our in our keyassets.
Our most passengers in the areas of important assets are ourpeople ticketing, real time information we invest substantial sums and to enhance our ability to inrecruiting, retaining and offer value for money.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
