Fund Managers Review Our NAV total return of -3.3% was slightly better than the benchmark total return of -3.4%.
Shareholder returns were -0.6%, with losses partly mitigated by a reduction in our share price discount to NAV, which ended the year at 1.5%.
Paul Niven, Fund Manager Investment Performance in 2018 The US Federal Reserve delivered four quarter point rate rises over Following a period of unusually smooth progress 2018 saw a return the year while signalling intent to continue their programme of of volatility and the steepest declines in equity markets for a decade.
stepping back from quantitative easing and shrinking their balance All major regions suffered losses in local currency terms and, at some sheet.
Recent years have seen central banks moving away from point during the year, most indices globally fell into a bear market: the accommodative monetary stance which has supported markets defined as a greater than 20% decline from peak.
since the Global Financial Crisis.
This environment of abundant but tightening liquidity presented a challenge for markets.
Indeed, rising Early in the year stocks were boosted from optimism over the impact interest rates led to concern that central banks might be making a of US tax cuts on corporate profits but this positive sentiment soon mistake by tightening policy at a time when the economy was already receded, giving way to numerous concerns which built as the year losing momentum.
Indeed, 2018 was remarkable in that corporate earnings rose strongly, gaining over 20% in the US, while stock prices there fell Responding to these concerns some closely watched market indicators by over 6%.
Part of the reversal in fortunes for stockholders reflected began to reach worrying levels for investors.
The US yield curve a reassessment of warranted valuation levels, particularly amongst moved close to inversion where long-dated interest rates are lower the disruptors which had previously led the market.
than short-term interest rates for the first time since 2007.
Such a FCIT share price 2018 Contributors to total returns in 2018 % 760 Portfolio return 2.2 740 Management fees 0.4 720 Interest and other expenses 0.2 700 Buy-backs 0.0 680 Change of value of debt 0.1 Gearing other 0.4 660 NAV total return 3.3 640 Decrease in discount 2.7 620 Share price total return 0.6 600 FTSE All-World total return 3.4 Dec 2017 Mar 2018 June 2018 Sept 2018 Dec 2018 Source: BMO GAM Source: BMO GAM 22 | F&C Investment Trust PLC pence per share Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Underlying Sector Classification of Listed Investment Portfolio Currency movements vs Sterling in 2018 as at 31 December 2018 Currency strengthening against Sterling Euro Japanese Yen US Dollar Financials 21.6% 110 Consumer Services 18.7% Technology 14.2% 105 Healthcare 13.2% Industrials 11.2% 100 Consumer Goods 10.1% Oil & Gas 4.2% Basic Materials 3.5% 95 Utilities 1.9% Telecommunications 1.4% 90 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% Currency Dec 2017 Mar 2018 June 2018 Oct 2018 Dec 2018 weakening against Sterling Source: BMO GAM Source: BMO GAM signal has historically been an accurate predictor of a future recession, Given the challenging backdrop, it was a negative year in absolute albeit with a variable lag.
Recessions tend to end bull markets in terms for most of our individual investment portfolios.
Our investment equities and investors anxiety levels rose in response.
portfolio delivered a return of -2.2%, ahead of the benchmark drop of -3.3%.
Amongst our exposure to listed equities, it was only North As explained on page 8, our investment strategy remains one of America which produced a positive return for the year, and this managing the exposure of our assets across a range of diversified was largely due to strength in the US dollar relative to sterling.
Our investment portfolios, each with their own individual strategies.
Each private equity exposure produced an excellent return which, at 19.7%, individual portfolio invests on a global or a regional basis using a comfortably exceeded returns from listed global equities.
By contrast, wide range of skills and resources available from the Manager or, in Europe, Emerging Markets and Japan, which had been amongst the case of the majority of our US exposure, from external third-party the strongest performing areas in 2017, lagged global markets and managers.
We invest into both listed and unlisted equity opportunities suffered material declines in value over the year.
Being overweight from across the world and seek to use the benefits of diversification in these poorly performing areas relative to our benchmark over the across different areas to smooth returns for investors.
year was a modest negative in the attribution of our overall return.
Year-end allocations and underlying geographic exposures are shown in the table below.
Weighting, stock selection and performance over one year in each investment portfolio strategy and underlying geographic exposure versus Index at 31 December 2018 Our strategy Index Investment Portfolio Our portfolio strategy Underlying geographic Benchmark performance performance 1 Strategy weighting % exposure % weighting % in Sterling % in Sterling % North America 42.0 53.4 56.0 4.7 0.8 2 Europe inc UK 14.4 22.4 19.6 15.1 9.9 Japan 8.6 9.9 8.4 10.0 7.6 Emerging Markets 10.5 11.9 12.0 5.3 8.9 Developed Pacific 2.4 4.0 5.6 3 Global Strategies 16.6 4.0 3.4 Private Equity 7.9 19.7 1 Represents the geographic exposure of the portfolio, including underlying exposures in private equity and fund holdings.
2 Performance prior to 30 June 2018 represents Europe ex UK.
3 The Global Strategies allocation consisted of Global Income and Global Smaller Companies as at 31 December but performance also includes the historic allocation to Global Multi-Manager.
Source: BMO GAM Report and Accounts 2018 | 23 Our private equity portfolio produced the strongest returns of any Amazon ended up delivering a return in excess of 25% for the year the of our strategies in 2018.
This added to the long-term record of stock ended more than a quarter below its record price achieved in the outperformance over listed markets shown in the table on the period, at which point it had briefly surpassed a market value of over opposite page and was particularly helpful in a year when most listed US$ 1trillion.
Apple also reached this valuation milestone during the markets declined in sterling terms.
year but similarly fell sharply.
Our private equity portfolio contains a mix of historic holdings in After a long period of lagging growth-based investment styles there private equity funds of funds which continue to be managed by was a modest revival in fortunes for value-based styles and our policy of specialists, HarbourVest and Pantheon, as well as more recent blending our US exposure proved beneficial as the year progressed.
Our direct fund and co-investments, selected by BMO GAM.
Our historic value and growth-based holdings both produced positive absolute and holdings are mature in nature, producing strong cashflow over the relative gains in 2018 leading to a pleasing outcome for our exposure in year as underlying investments were realised at a premium to their this area.
Our overall exposure to North American strategies delivered a carrying value.
These historic holdings produced gains of over 20% in return of 4.7%, comfortably ahead of the benchmark gain of 0.8%.
In addition, while it is still early to judge the performance of our newer private equity investments we saw encouraging In contrast the European strategy delivered poor relative returns over progress over the year, with gains of close to 19%.
We also made the year, with a loss of 15.1% against the benchmark fall of 9.9%.
commitments to a new vehicle, managed by BMO GAM, which invests Tensions rose once again as populist parties became stronger, for into secondary fund opportunities and co-investments.
A number of example, in Italy Five Star and the League topped the March election holdings within this structure saw an uplift in valuations, including and formed a coalition government in May.
Italian bond yields rose as Wavecrest, a co-investment into a cloud-based customer relationship investors worried over the governments spending plans while the EU management software provider for financial services firms.
The planned disciplinary measures against Rome for breaking fiscal rules.
carrying value in Wavecrest rose by 50% due to an increase in annual recurring revenue.
We also made good progress in NEM Impresse III, The rotation within the European equity market was pronounced.
In a secondary Italian based fund which we bought at a discount and the period spanning the latter part of the year, we performed poorly which enjoyed a good valuation uplift over the year.
In terms of some as there was a sharp rotation into Telecoms, Utilities, and Mining, of our more recent primary investments, our US private equity growth where we had little exposure.
These sectors had been amongst the equity holdings performed strongly while our Chinese exposure, worst performing sectors during the earlier months of the year.
Stock through Warburg Pincus, also gained.
In addition to our new and selection was detrimental to returns with Cairn Homes, the Irish existing investments in private equity funds and co-investments, we Homebuilder, suffering from negative sentiment surrounding Brexit also maintained our holding in Syncona, which is transforming into a and concern over build cost inflation.
Another holding, the UK company life sciences company.
Syncona posted returns of 34% over the year Sophos, fell sharply after a moderation in earnings growth.
with a number of underlying holdings conducting successful clinical trials.
Japan also produced disappointing returns, with our strategy return of -10.0% lagging the -7.6% return from the benchmark over the year.
Our North American equity allocation produced good relative returns.
During the year exposure to some of the more cyclical, global trade Despite a mid-year reversal in the fortunes of growth stocks the gain exposed names was reduced in favour of companies that combine of 9.1% from our growth oriented manager, T Rowe Price, was the long-term growth opportunities with more defensive qualities.
highest return from all of our listed equity strategies, comfortably exceeding returns from growth indices.
US stocks have led global Our Emerging Market strategy dropped 5.3% over the year but this markets in recent years with a narrow group of stocks driving overall was less than the 8.9% loss from the benchmark index.
We had some exposure to each of the Faangs Facebook, rates and ongoing strength in the US dollar, combined with some Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google Alphabet which had seen strong specific issues in areas such as Turkey and Argentina led to a poor year gains in the lead up to 2018.
Close to the mid-point of the year, this for Emerging Market assets.
Turkey suffered a currency crisis and the basket of stocks had risen by nearly 40% but it ended 2018 with a Argentine peso fell by over 50%.
In addition, trade tensions harmed healthy, but more modest, 8% gain.
Each of these companies faced sentiment.
President Trump again demonstrated that he should be a different set of challenges but, in each case, upwards progress in taken literally in terms of his pre-election pledges and set out to take their respective share prices came to an abrupt halt.
Investors worried on China on global trade practices.
Through a series of escalating steps whether growth rates would continue to support lofty valuation on trade tariffs designed to protect US jobs and interests, the President levels and increasing discussion of the potential regulatory impact raised alarm over potential disruption to global supply chains and on business models led to investor unease.
As an example, while corporate profitability.
24 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Investment portfolio strategies attribution in Sterling 1 year % 3 years % 5 years % Region Return Index return Return Index return Return Index return North America 4.7 0.8 55.1 50.4 101.5 89.5 1 Europe inc UK 15.1 9.9 15.6 26.4 26.2 34.0 Japan 10.0 7.6 31.4 29.7 66.8 56.7 Emerging Markets 5.3 8.9 50.8 52.6 47.8 43.8 2 Global Strategies 4.0 3.4 43.7 42.4 - - Private Equity 19.7 - 58.0 - 111.7 - The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-World Index whereas for the purposes of this table the relevant regional sub-indices are used for comparison, except in the case of Emerging Markets where the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is used.
1 Performance prior to 30 June 2018 represents Europe ex UK.
2 The Global Strategies consist of Global Income, Global Multi-Manager and Global Smaller Companies and have been in existence for less than five years.
Source: BMO GAM Private Equity portfolio Commitment Value of outstanding holding 31 December 31 December 2018 2018 000s 000s 1 Total Private Equity portfolio Brought forward 69,354 225,294 2 Committed in 2018 198,352 - 2 Cash drawn in 2018 68,392 68,392 2 Cash returned in 2018 - 69,088 3 Valuation movements - 33,422 Exchange movements 3,227 8,544 3 Total Private Equity portfolio Carried forward 202,541 266,564 1 At exchange rates ruling at 31 December 2017 2 At actual exchange rates in 2018 3 At exchange rates ruling at 31 December 2018 Source: BMO GAM In relation to our Emerging Markets holdings, exposures in Mexico, Portfolio Activity Hong Kong China, South Africa and Malaysia added most value while Asset allocation changes were relatively modest though we adjusted security selection in Russia, a lack of exposure in Brazil and our exposure to some of our underlying strategies over the year.
We have holding in Vietnam cost most relative performance.
Our Emerging no domestic bias to the portfolio and therefore, as noted in recent Markets strategy had little exposure to large Chinese technology years, our UK equity exposure has been reduced to historically low stocks which, after an extraordinary run up in 2017, corrected heavily levels as part of a specific strategic move.
Reflecting the reduced in 2018. importance of UK listed stocks in our portfolio which do typically have global exposure anyway, we merged our UK and European strategies Our combined Global Strategies slightly underperformed the into a combined pan-European approach.
benchmark over the year, falling by 4.0%.
By the end of the year this area of the portfolio contained an Income Strategy and an allocation A low allocation to UK equities has been beneficial to our portfolio to Global Smaller Companies.
While our Global Smaller strategy returns in recent years from a stockmarket and currency perspective performed better than index comparators this segment lagged larger and there will be sensitivity to future movements in sterling.
The capitalisation stocks and so was detrimental to our returns.
outlook is partly dependent on how Brexit unfolds.
A decline in Report and Accounts 2018 | 25 sterling would be a boost to our portfolio returns and, while perhaps We made 198.4m of new commitments to Private Equity investments in response to concerns over Brexit, this would likely be beneficial for in 2018 and realised 69.1m of cashflow returned from existing the value of our overseas holdings.
Conversely, a rise in sterling would investments.
Our exposure to Pantheon and HarbourVest now serve to depress portfolio returns, even if associated with market comprises only 4.3% of the overall portfolio exposure.
We decided, therefore, to hedge some of our overseas exposure by buying 100m of sterling as highlighted under Revenue Returns Principal Risk action on page 21 as, in the event that sterling rises While capital gains were negative in 2018 it was another good year sharply, this would help to mitigate losses on our overseas holdings for our income.
We remain focused on balancing our approach such arising from currency appreciation.
We will continue to monitor the that we can deliver across these twin objectives over the longer term.
appropriate size of the hedge.
Our gross income grew by 11.2% over the year and our net income per share gained by 9.8% for the full year from 11.67 pence per share to Within the global component of our portfolio we divested from our 12.81 pence per share.
We benefited from 3.9m of special dividends global multi-manager allocation, largely redeploying the capital over the year, up from the 2.7m received in 2017.
There has been towards the US and global smaller companies, while also raising little net impact of exchange rate movements in the year on income.
cash to pay off a short-term loan.
We funded a US growth strategy, managed by BMO GAM in Chicago, which will complement our existing Gearing manager in the US, T Rowe Price and also added to a value strategy, Our gearing was 6.6% of net assets at the end of the year, down also managed by BMO.
These moves had the effect of reducing our modestly from the 7.2% level at the start of the year.
In a year of exposure to third party funds and has the added benefit of reducing declining markets our gearing was a -0.4% detractor from our NAV our overall cost ratio.
26 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report An economic and earnings downturn remains the most significant risk for equity investors.
Indeed, while markets have begun to display concern of slowdown they are yet to fully embrace the risk of a serious decline in prospects for corporate earnings.
However, recession is neither imminent nor inevitable, as many investors fear.
If the cycle can extend further then growth in earnings should prove supportive for equities.
Back in 1868 we were able to democratise investing.
We have survived and been Aside from the near-term outlook for macro and markets there is little successful not just because we were the doubt that 2018 represented a transition period for investors from first.
We have survived and succeeded one where supportive policy helped to fuel the long bull market to an because of our willingness to adapt and environment with more risks without necessarily a commensurate change again and again.
This upturn in volatility is likely to persist, even if markets do grind higher.
Paul Niven speaking at the F&C Investment Trust lecture at the Guildhall, London, in In the UK negotiations over Brexit are reaching a crescendo.
Many March 2018. scenarios are possible, including a cliff-edge departure, some form of deal, a second referendum, a general election, a crisis-induced National Government or even the unilateral revoking of Article 50.
There is unlikely to be near term clarity and UK equities can therefore be expected to continue to be priced at a discount for the foreseeable future, reflecting the extraordinary levels of uncertainty.
Conclusion Our ability to invest with a long-term perspective while taking advantage of short-term opportunities has served shareholders well over our history.
In our assessment, the next twelve months are unlikely to see the end of the growth cycle for the global economy or for corporate earnings.
Globally, markets have essentially priced in the numerous risks to growth.
A bullish earnings and growth outturn We have a mix of short, medium and longer term borrowing in 2018, combined with falling equity prices has resulted in materially arrangements and during the year took advantage of low long-term lower forward-looking valuation measures on equities.
There is little borrowing rates to undertake another private placement, borrowing doubt that the earnings growth in the coming year will be lower than 75m for 30 years at an annual rate of 2.92%.
In aggregate, our total that seen in 2018 but it should remain supportive for investors.
borrowings at the end of 2018 were 325.2m and we paid an average blended rate of 2.85% across all of our debt.
Longer term, disruptive trends across and within industries are accelerating and a small number of companies are emerging as Current market perspective dominant market players.
Future leaders and growth opportunities There are challenges for markets as we enter 2019 and we have may not be the present incumbents and, given the pace and extent factored this into our risk monitoring as noted on page 20.
Rising of change, investors need to look across a wide opportunity set interest rates and the exit and reversal of accommodative monetary in both listed and unlisted markets.
In addition, as we have seen policy by central banks was always likely to create greater volatility many times before, while disruptive trends give rise to real societal, but many other issues are troubling investors.
Trade tensions, rising economic and corporate change and benefits they can also give rise stress in peripheral Europe as well as rising populism are all reasons to market mispricing of both the perceived winners and losers.
Nonetheless, the greatest challenge for equity markets this reason, we continue to adopt a flexible and diversified approach in coming years will likely be driven by the direction of the US and to investment.
There are now some troubling market signs that growth rates are slowing and that the long economic cycle is in its Paul Niven final stages.
Fund Manager 11 March 2019 Report and Accounts 2018 | 27
