Principal Policies FCITs principal policies support the Companys investment and business strategies towards the attainment of long-term sustainable growth for our shareholders.
Investment regular reports from the Fund Manager.
Confirmation of adherence FCIT is required to have a publicly stated Investment Policy from which to the investment restrictions and limitations set by the Board are shareholders, prospective investors and stakeholders can understand required at each meeting.
The Fund Managers Review on pages 22 the scope of its investment remit and constraints imposed under it.
to 27 provides an overview of the outcome from the application of Any material changes to the stated policy can only be made with the Investment Policy and the underlying policies during the course shareholder approval.
Risk diversification is achieved through geographic Borrowing asset allocation and industry sector and stock selection across a wide Using its closed-ended investment company structure, FCIT has a long range of markets.
Within the general policy of maintaining a diversified record of successfully using gearing to enhance shareholder returns portfolio, there are no specific geographic or industry sector exposure although this was a marginal detractor in 2018.
FCITs policy is to limits for the publicly listed equities.
The Board has placed a limit of borrow in sterling or foreign currency over short, medium or long- 5% of the value of the total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time term periods and normally within a range of 0 20% of shareholders of acquisition and excluding private equity investments.
The Board monitors borrowing levels and covenant headroom investment requires specific Board approval with the exception of new at each Board meeting.
private equity investments, responsibility for which has been delegated to our Manager.
Shareholder approval would be sought in the event Dividend that the Board considers that the long-term exposure to Private Equity FCITs revenue account is managed with a view to delivering a investments should exceed a figure of 20%.
rising income stream in real terms for shareholders.
Prudent use of revenue reserves established over many decades is made whenever Under FCITs articles of association, with limited exceptions, no single necessary to help meet any revenue shortfall.
Dividends can also be investment may be made by FCIT which exceeds 10% of the value paid from capital reserves although the Board has no current need or of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Under the Listing intention of doing so.
Rules, no more than 10% of the total assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended investment companies, unless such investment The Board applies due diligence and determines payments by taking companies have themselves published investment policies to invest no account of timely income forecasts, brought forward distributable more than 15% of their total assets in other closed-ended investment reserves, prevailing inflation rates, the dividend payment record companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The Board has placed a limit and Corporation Tax rules governing investment trust status.
Risks of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on investment funds managed to the dividend policy have been considered as part of the Principal by BMO GAM at the time of acquisition, and any such investment Risks and Future Prospects reviews noted on page 20.
They include: requires specific Board approval.
worldwide financial and political instability leading to significant deterioration in the level of income received by FCIT: and unforeseen FCIT will typically remain fully invested in equities, but is not prohibited and significant changes to FCITs regulatory environment.
FCIT has from investing in other types of securities or assets.
Derivatives sufficient liquid resources to fund any envisaged level of dividend may be used for the purpose of income enhancement and portfolio payment.
management covering tactical asset allocation and risk mitigation including protection against currency risks within strict limits.
The consistent application of this policy has enabled FCIT to pay an increased dividend every year for the past 48 years and the total The Board carries out due diligence with regard to the Investment proposed payment for 2018 is fully covered by earnings.
Policy and underlying policies at each of its Board meetings receiving 16 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Discount premium Taxation Over many years the Board has consistently applied a discount control, As an investment trust, it is essential that FCIT retains its tax status or buyback, policy.
Under this policy the Board buys back shares for by complying at all times with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax the benefit of shareholders where it sees value and, importantly, in Act 2010 Section 1158 such that it does not suffer UK Corporation pursuit of a sustainably low deviation between the share price and Tax on capital gains: ensures that it submits correct taxation returns NAV per share in normal market conditions.
The policy and the levels annually to HMRC and settles promptly any taxation due: and within which it has operated have continually been reviewed with the ensures that it claims back in a timely manner, where possible, aim of achieving the long-held aspiration of FCITs shares trading at or all taxes suffered in excess of taxation treaty rates on non-UK close to NAV.
Shares held in treasury can be sold, or new shares issued, dividend receipts.
The Boards policy towards taxation is one of full in order to satisfy shareholder demand and, conversely, to moderate commitment to complying with applicable legislation and statutory the premium to which the share price can rise in relation to the NAV guidelines.
In applying due diligence towards the retention of Section per share.
The Board reviews the discount and premium levels at each 1158 status and adhering to its tax policies, the Board receives regular meeting.
For the first time in many years it was unnecessary to buy reports from the Manager.
FCIT has received approval from HMRC as back any shares in 2018.
For much of the second half of the year the an investment trust under Section 1158 and has since continued to shares traded at a premium and new shares were issued by way of a comply with the eligibility conditions.
Board diversity The Boards policy towards the appointment of non-executive directors is based on its belief in the benefits of having a diverse range of experience, skills, length of service and backgrounds, including gender and contributions from an international perspective.
The policy is... there is much to be done always to appoint the best person for the job and, by way of this policy statement, it is confirmed that there will be no discrimination on the and gained in helping people grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or to understand the concepts and physical ability.
benefits of saving and investing for The overriding aim of the policy is to ensure that the Board is the longer term.
composed of the best combination of people for ensuring the delivery of investment out-performance for shareholders over the longer term in the form of sustainable growth in both capital and income.
The policy is applied for the purpose of appointing individuals that, together as a board, will continue to achieve that aim as well as ensuring optimal promotion of the Companys investment proposition in the Supporting financial education in the community marketplace.
In terms of progress in achieving diversity, the gender As a company founded on the principle of providing stockmarket balance of five men and three women Directors exceeds the target access and diversified risk to investors of moderate means, FCITs role of 33% of women on FTSE 350 company boards by 2020 set under is perhaps even more relevant today.
While investors face a world The Hampton-Alexander Review.
This is the independent review body in which they are having to take greater control of their own future which aims to increase the number of women on FTSE 350 boards.
The financial well-being, there is much to be done and gained in helping Board notes the recommendations of the Parker Review Committee people to understand the concepts and benefits of saving and investing for each FTSE 250 company to have at least one director from an ethnic for the longer term.
In recognising this need and the benefits of its minority background by 2024 as part of the drive to improve the ethnic alignment in terms of FCITs own future shareholder base, the Board and cultural diversity of UK company boards.
has adopted a policy of supporting broader financial education across schools and universities.
In implementing this policy, a programme of Integrity and business ethics initiatives was carried out by FCIT during the year often with the direct The Board applies a strict anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy participation of Board members.
The results of these initiatives are insofar as it applies to any directors or employee of BMO GAM or of being measured and assessed with the intention of developing this any other organisation with which FCIT conducts business.
The Board further with the aim of building lasting educational foundations that will also ensures that adequate procedures are in place and followed be of benefit to shareholders and stakeholders and, not least, younger in respect of third-party appointments, acceptance of gifts and generations and the community at large.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 17 Strategic Report F&C Investment Trust will celebrate its 200th anniversary in 2068.
There could be no greater testament to F&C Investment Trusts democratic, diligent and disruptive tradition, built over the course of two centuries, than for this to be the case.
Millennials expert, Dr Eliza Philby, speaking at the F&C Investment Trust lecture at the Guildhall, London, in March 2018.
