Strategic Report Our purpose is to provide our shareholders with long-term growth in capital and income.
We do this by investing mainly in public and private equity markets, using borrowings to enhance returns and by controlling costs.
Our investments are held in a number of portfolios that are individually concentrated, but are managed as a whole to provide global diversification, lower volatility and lower risk.
Investment and business strategy in equities, we retain complete investment flexibility to invest in other With values embedded around the needs of investors of moderate types of securities or assets depending on the return prospects and in means over many generations, our investment strategy outlined above consideration of the implications for the broader portfolio.
Furthermore, produces outperformance and real rises in dividends over the longer as a closed-ended listed investment company we are not constrained term as reported on page 19.
In a changing environment in which there by asset sales to meet redemptions.
Our share capital structure gives is greater need for individuals to take control of their future financial us the flexibility to take a longer term view and stay invested while wellbeing, our wider business strategy aims to position us as a clear taking advantage of illiquidity throughout normal and volatile market and core investment choice through all available channels, particularly conditions.
Having the ability to borrow to invest gives us a significant for smaller investors.
advantage over a number of other investment fund structures.
Business model The Board remains responsible for decisions over corporate strategy: The Directors have a duty to promote the success of FCIT.
As an corporate governance: risk and control assessment: setting policies investment company with no employees, we believe that the detailed on pages 16 and 17: setting limits on gearing and asset optimum basis for doing this and achieving our objective is a strong allocation: monitoring investment performance: and setting and working relationship with our appointed Manager.
Within policies monitoring marketing budgets.
set and overseen by the Board of Directors, our Manager has been given overall responsibility for the management of FCITs assets, Environmental, Social and Governance ESG impact asset allocation, gearing, stock and sector selection and risk.
As Our ESG policies are set out on page 12 and are aligned towards the part of this, it has the flexibility to blend its expertise with those delivery of sustainable investment performance over the longer of other fund managers by delegating the management of some term.
The direct impact of FCITs activities is minimal as it has no investment portfolios externally.
These include the North America employees, premises, physical assets or operations either as a publicly listed equities portfolios and some of the long-established producer or a provider of goods or services.
Neither does it have Private Equity holdings that are held in funds of funds.
Its indirect impact occurs through the investments that environmental, social and governance matters are undertaken through it makes and this is mitigated through BMO GAMs Responsible BMO Global Asset Management Limited.
Our Manager and its sister Ownership policy as explained on pages 12 to 15. company, BMO Global Asset Management Limited together BMO GAM, are subsidiaries of BMO Global Asset Management Holdings Manager evaluation PLC, which is owned by Bank of Montreal BMO.
Investment performance and responsible ownership are fundamental to delivering sustainable long-term growth in capital and income for To provide a breadth of sources of return, the individual investment our shareholders and therefore an important responsibility of the portfolios are managed on a global or regional basis.
While we invest Directors is exercising a robust annual evaluation of our Managers Further to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act relating to the preparation of a Strategic Report, which have been amended to implement EU Directive 2014 95 EU on non-financial and diversity information we have integrated the information required for a Non-Financial Information Statement NFIS into this Strategic Report with a view to cohesive reporting.
The NFIS requirements are explained on page 98 together with a guide to the location of the embedded information.
8 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report approximately 90% of our shareholder register in the hands of tens of thousands of retail investors, and savings or execution-only platforms representing an increasingly significant and growing element of the shareholder base, we remain focused with our Manager on the optimal delivery of FCITs investment proposition.
Investment performance All available channels are used including the internet and social media as well as the BMO Savings Plans, which remain a cost and responsible ownership effective and flexible way to invest in FCIT.
are fundamental to Managing risks and opportunities delivering sustainable We look to make good use of our corporate structure and the investment opportunities that lead to long-term growth in capital long-term growth in capital and income for our shareholders.
Like all businesses, these and income for our opportunities do not come without risks and uncertainties and so the performance of our Manager is monitored at each Board shareholders meeting on a number of levels.
In addition to managing the investments, the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, accounting and marketing services are all carried out by the Manager.
It reports on the investment portfolios: the wider portfolio structure: risks: compliance with borrowing covenants: income, dividend and expense forecasts: errors: internal control procedures: marketing: shareholder and other stakeholder issues, including FCITs share price discount or premium to NAV: and performance.
This is an essential element in the mitigation of risk, as accounting and regulatory updates.
The performance of each outlined under Principal Risks on page 20, and the strong governance individual investment portfolio is reviewed through a series that is carried out by the Board of Directors, all of whom are of presentations given by each specialist management team independent and non-executive.
The process for the evaluation of our Manager for the year under Shareholders can assess our financial performance from the Key review and the basis on which the decision to reappoint it for another Performance Indicators that are set out on page 19 and, on page year are set out on page 41.
The management fee is based on 20, can see what the Directors consider to be the Principal Risks the market capitalisation of FCIT, thus fully aligning the Managers that we face.
The risk of not achieving FCITs objective, or of interests with shareholders through share price performance.
consistently under-performing its benchmark or competitors, may arise from any or all of inappropriate asset allocation, poor market Fund Manager and management of the assets conditions, ineffective or expensive gearing, poor cost control, loss As Fund Manager on behalf of our Manager, Paul Niven is responsible of assets and service provider governance issues.
In addition to for developing and implementing the investment strategy with the monitoring our Managers performance, commitment, available Board and for the day to day management of the total portfolio covering resources and its systems and controls, the Directors also review the entire range of individual investment portfolio strategies.
His role the services provided by other principal suppliers.
These include the covers tactical decisions over the allocation of assets between the Custodian and Depositary in their duties towards the safeguarding different investment portfolios as well as decisions over levels and of the assets.
timing of gearing within the prescribed range.
He has responsibility for overall portfolio composition but delegates stock selection decisions.
The principal policies that support our investment and business The underlying specialist portfolio management teams are responsible strategy are set out on page 16, whilst the Fund Managers review and accountable to him and ultimately to the Board for their investment of activity in the year can be found on page 22.
In the light of FCITs performance.
strategy, investment processes and control environment relating to both the oversight of its service providers and the effectiveness Shareholder communication and marketing of the risk mitigation activities, we have set out on page 21 our We foster good working relationships with our key stakeholders: reasonable expectation that FCIT will continue in operation for at our Manager, as described above, and our shareholders.
With least the next ten years.
