Sir Roger Bone KCMG, Senior Independent Appointed to the Board on 22 September Director.
Appointed to the Board on 6 March 2009 and as Chairman in May 2010.
He was president of Boeing UK from chairs the Nomination Committee and the 2005 to 2014.
In earlier years he served as Management Engagement Committee.
He British Ambassador to Brazil from 1999 to 2004 is also Chairman of the Investor Forum, an and to Sweden from 1995 to 1999.
He was investor led organisation established for the an Assistant Under-Secretary of State in the purpose of improving long-term returns from Foreign and Commonwealth Office between investment through collective shareholder 1991 and 1995, head of the Economic Relations engagement.
Most of his career was at Department there from 1989 to 1991 and Fidelity International, where he started as Political Counsellor at the British Embassy in an analyst and spent a number of years in Washington DC from 1985 to 1989.
He was a Japan, latterly as Chief Investment Officer for visiting fellow at Harvard University in 1984 85 the Asia Pacific region.
He returned to the and served as a private secretary to the Foreign UK in 1999 to take up the position of Chief Secretary between 1982 and 1984.
He was one Investment Officer for Fidelity International, of the Prime Ministers honorary ambassadors a position he held until 2005.
He is also for British business from 2010 to 2015.
He is a Chairman of The Merchants Trust PLC, Fidelity non-executive director of ITM Power plc, and is Funds Luxembourg and McInroy and Wood.
also Chairman of Over-c-ltd, a small high-tech company in the telecoms sector.
1 Sarah Arkle Appointed to the Board 1 on 2 March 2011.
She was Vice Chairman Beatrice Hollond Appointed to the Board of Threadneedle where she was Chief on 1 September 2017.
Beatrice spent 16 Investment Officer for ten years until her years at Credit Suisse Asset Management in retirement at the end of December 2010.
Global Fixed Income and began her career as She was instrumental in establishing an equity analyst at Morgan Grenfell Asset Threadneedles investment process and Management.
She is Chairman at Millbank recruiting a number of the firms senior Financial Services Limited and a member of fund managers.
In 1983 Sarah moved from the Board of Brown Advisory.
Beatrice also stockbroker WI Carr to become a Far East holds non-executive directorships at Telecom Equity Manager and subsequently became a Plus PLC, M&G Group Limited and Templeton director at Allied Dunbar Asset Management, Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC, where which became part of Threadneedle in May she is Senior Independent Director.
She is Chairman of JPMorgan Emerging Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Markets Investment Trust PLC.
the Audit Committee at Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC.
30 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report 2 1 Francesca Ecsery Joined the Board on Edward Knapp Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2013.
Francesca has extensive 25 July 2016, Edward brings a combination expertise in marketing, with over 25 years of of general management and operational experience in senior director roles, with both experience worldwide, with expertise in blue chip and start-up companies.
She has the digital transformation of large scale worked across a broad range of consumer organisations, Risk, Strategy and Cyber industries and previously held the role of Security.
He is Senior Advisor to the board Global Business Development Director at of a global financial technology company.
She also held senior Prior to that he was a Managing Director at executive roles with STA travel, the Thomas HSBC, where he was a Chief Operating Officer Cook Group and Thorn EMI plc and is currently and Global Head of Business Management a non-executive director of Share Plc, within the Technology function.
He was a Marshall Motor Holdings plc and Air France.
Chief Operating Officer and Head of Business Management at Barclays Bank within the Global Risk Function.
Until 2012 he was at 1 Jeffrey Hewitt, Chairman of the Audit McKinsey & Company, providing extensive Committee.
Appointed on 15 September 2010 board and executive-level advisory to clients and as Chairman of the Audit Committee in worldwide, focusing on banking operations, November 2011.
He was the Group Finance strategy, value creation and risk management Director of Electrocomponents plc from 1996 and technology.
to 2005 and Deputy Chairman from 2000 to 2005.
Prior to that, he was the Finance 2 Director of Unitech plc from 1991 to 1996.
Nicholas Moakes Appointed to the Between 1981 and 1991 he held directorships Board on 2 March 2011.
He is a Managing successively with Carrington Viyella, Vantona Partner and Chief Investment Officer of the Viyella and Coats Viyella where he was Investment Division at The Wellcome Trust.
He started his career He was Head of the Asia Pacific investment with Arthur Andersen where he qualified team and Co-Head of Emerging Markets at as a chartered accountant, following which BlackRock Investment Management until he spent seven years with The Boston 2007.
He has 25 years experience of global Consulting Group.
He is also acting Chairman equity markets and extensive experience of of Cenkos Securities plc and Chairman of investing in private equity.
Prior to joining Electrocomponents Pension Trustees.
BlackRock in 1997 he lived in Hong Kong for nine years, and is a Chinese speaker.
He started his career in the Diplomatic Service, where he specialised in Hong Kong and 1 Members of the Audit Committee China.
He is Senior Independent Director of 2 Members of the Nomination Committee All the Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee Jupiter Emerging & Frontier Income Trust PLC.
No Director has a shared directorship elsewhere with other Directors.
