Promoting the success of FCIT Directors of large companies will now have to the decision to raise by private placement 75m explain more fully how they have discharged 30-year loan notes to augment our longer term their duties under section 172 1 of the Companies structural gearing at historically low rates for the Act 2006 the Act in promoting the success of purpose of enhancing returns for many years to their companies for the benefit of members as a come.
This will include the likely consequences of their decisions in the longer term and how One of our long-term strategic aspirations has they have taken wider stakeholders needs into been that the Companys shares should trade account.
consistently at a price close to the NAV per share.
For much of the second half of the year, and Our main working relationship is with the beyond, the shares traded at a small premium management company that we hold to account enabling the first share issue in decades.
With recognition of the need for sustainability as a fundamental Another decision taken that will be of benefit element in achieving longer term success, we over the longer term relates to a reduction of the continued to work very closely with our Manager Managers fee rate as explained in the Chairmans throughout the year in further developing our Statement and on pages 41 and 42.
Costs can eat investment strategy and underlying policies.
This away at investment returns so we have put in is not simply for the purpose of achieving FCITs place a tiered structure which will mean that, as investment objective but to do so in an effective, FCIT grows over time, the benefits of scale will responsible and sustainable way in the interests effectively be passed on to shareholders.
of shareholders, future investors and, not least, society at large.
As long-term investors we always look to the future and to the role and success of FCIT in that We have an unrestricted global mandate, but have context.
We recognise that, more than ever long recognised that the ethical and sustainability before, the financial services industry needs to issues the world is facing cannot be ignored by create simple to use, transparent investment asset managers and investment companies alike.
products that help everybody in society invest for We have therefore included on pages 12 to 15 the longer term and secure their financial future.
additional information on our approach towards We believe that FCIT provides a clear investment responsible investment.
We are very supportive choice, particularly for smaller investors.
We of BMO GAMs approach, which focuses on therefore took the opportunity in the 150th engagement with the investee companies on ESG anniversary year to promote the Company through issues and how these link with the United Nations marketing and public relations initiatives and, at a Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
wider social level, by supporting broader financial education across schools and universities.
We plan The portfolio activities undertaken by our to continue and develop these initiatives and will Manager, including the specific strategic decisions continue to work towards the optimal delivery concerning a reallocation away from the Global of the Companys investment proposition and to Multi-Manager portfolio towards the US and promote the success of FCIT for the benefit of all Global Smaller Companies, can be found in the shareholders, stakeholders and the community Fund Managers Review on page 26.
10 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Strategic Report Simon Fraser Chairman, Richard Wilson CEO of BMO GAM, Sir Roger Bone Senior Independent Director and Joan Mohammed Chief Operating Officer of BMO GAM mark 150 years since launch and as the oldest continuously listed company on the London Stock Exchange with the ringing of the opening bell in March 2018.
