Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Report of the Management Engagement Committee Role of the Committee particularly in regard to investment strategy and marketing.
As part The primary role of the Management Engagement Committee is to of the evaluation, the CEO of BMO GAM and their Head of Distribution review the investment management agreement and monitor the presented to the Board on the strength of its business and the resources performance of the Manager for the investment, secretarial, financial, and opportunities for BMO GAM as part of the wider Bank of Montreal administration, marketing and support services that it provides under group of companies and their continued support for its investment that agreement.
It also reviews the terms of the agreement including the trust business.
With regard to performance, the share price total return level and structure of fees payable, the length of notice period and best outperformed the benchmark over one, three, five and ten years.
All of the Committees responsibilities have Committee met in closed session following the presentations and been carried out over the course of 2018 and 2019 to date.
concluded that in its opinion the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Composition of the Committee Board ratified this recommendation.
All the Directors are members of the Committee.
Its terms of reference can be found on the website at fandcit.
The Managers fee An important responsibility of the Committee is that relating to the Manager evaluation process management fee.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the The Committee met once during the year and again in January 2019 for year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market capitalisation the purpose of the formal evaluation of the Managers performance of the Company.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly and is subject including the contribution from BMO GAM more widely.
Its performance to a reimbursement for amounts earned from investments in other is considered by the Board at every meeting, with a formal evaluation investment vehicles managed by BMO GAM.
The amount paid was by the Committee each year.
For the purposes of its ongoing monitoring, 13.4m, an increase of 13.6% from 11.8m last year reflecting the the Board receives detailed reports and views from the Fund Manager increase of the Companys average market capitalisation during the year.
on investment policy, asset allocation, gearing and risk, together with Note 4 on the Accounts provides detailed information in relation to the quarterly presentations on the BMO GAM managed portfolio strategies.
Quarterly updates are received from the US sub-managers.
The Board also receives comprehensive performance measurement schedules, provided Whilst the funds that were held in the Global Multi-Manager portfolio levy by Refinitiv Eikon and BMO GAM.
These enable it to assess: the success or management fees, no fees were paid to the Manager for the selection of failure of the management of the total portfolio against the performance the funds.
No additional fees beyond the annual fees detailed above are objectives set by the Board: the sources of positive and negative paid to the Manager for any future commitments made to Private Equity contribution to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation and that fall within its remit.
The Manager and certain individuals employed stock selection: and the performance of each investment portfolio against by the Manager are, however, entitled to participate in a performance its local index, where applicable, and the risk return characteristics.
fee arrangement in the form of carried interest over secondary or coPortfolio performance information, which is relevant in monitoring BMO investments made within the Private Equity programme.
GAM, the sub-managers and the Private Equity funds of funds managers, is set out on pages 22 to 27. Review of the Managers fee The fee paid to the Manager is reviewed by the Committee every three Manager reappointment years and became due in December 2018.
Presentations were given by The annual evaluation that took place in January 2019 included both BMO GAM and JPMorgan Cazenove, FCITs stockbroker, which had presentations from the Fund Manager and BMO GAMs Head of provided an in-depth analysis of fees prevailing in the market place Investment Trusts.
This focused primarily on the objectives set by the and trends both within the investment trust industry and more widely.
Board and BMO GAMs contribution towards achieving those objectives The review also considered the effect of the ad valorem structure and Report and Accounts 2018 | 41 hence the impact of exchange rate movements and share buybacks.
Committee evaluation The findings of the Committee were that while the existing structure The activities of the Management Engagement Committee were and fee level were both sensible and aligned in the key areas there was considered as part of the Board appraisal process completed in scope to put in place a tiered structure.
The Committee recommended accordance with standard governance arrangements as summarised on a fee based on a rate of 0.35% per annum of the market capitalisation page 38.
The conclusion from the process was that the Committee was of the Company up to 3.0 billion, 0.30% between 3.0 and 4.0 billion, operating effectively, with the right balance of membership and skills.
The Board subsequently endorsed the recommendation and the change has taken effect from 1 January 2019.
Simon Fraser Management Engagement Committee Chairman Third Party Managers fees 11 March 2019 BMO GAM incurs investment management fees from the sub-managers appointed to manage the North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses these fees, which in 2018 amounted to 3.7m 2017: 3.3m see note 4 on the Accounts.
There were no changes in the year to the fee structures.
Private equity funds of funds managers fees The fees paid to Private Equity managers in respect of the Private Equity funds of funds amounted to 4.6m for 2018 2017: 4.5m see note 4 on the accounts all of which was incurred indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have arrangements whereby these Private Equity managers share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by each manager.
The arrangements also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been achieved, would be normal.
Use of the F&C name The Company owns the name Foreign & Colonial and BMO GAM owns the name F&C.
For many years the Company had rights to use the F&C name in accordance with provisions set out in the management agreement but did not exercise those rights to any meaningful degree.
On 9 November 2018 the Company changed its name to F&C Investment Trust PLC and will use increasingly the F&C name for marketing purposes.
The terms under which the Company can use the F&C name are set out in a separate trade mark licence agreement with BMO GAM dated 1 March 2018 which supersedes the provisions within the management agreement.
The licence agreement is royalty free subject to there being no material change to the Companys management arrangements with BMO GAM within the next 14 years.
