Directors Report The Directors submit the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Directors biographies, Corporate Governance Statement: the Reports of the Management Engagement, Nomination and Audit Committees: and the Remuneration Report all form part of this Directors Report.
Statement regarding Report and Accounts Change of Name The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit At the annual general meeting in 2018, shareholders voted in favour Committee, the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, of an amendment to the Companys articles of association to enable balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary the Directors to change the corporate name from Foreign & Colonial for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Investment Trust PLC to F&C Investment Trust PLC.
The Directors business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee had reviewed implemented this change on 9 November 2018.
The Companys the draft Report and Accounts for the purpose of this assessment London Stock Exchange TIDM code ticker also changed from FRCL having also put in place, as explained on page 50, an arms length to FCIT.
process to provide additional comfort to the Directors in making this statement.
The market outlook for the Company can be found on page Taxation 27.
Principal Risks can be found on page 20 with further information in As set out on page 17 and in note 7 on the Accounts, the Company is note 25 on the Accounts.
There are no instances where the Company exempt from UK Corporation Tax on its worldwide dividend income is required to make disclosures in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R other and from UK Corporation Tax on any capital gains arising from the than in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 7 R concerning the issue of shares portfolio of investments, provided it complies at all times with Section which is on page 33.
Dividends received from investee companies domiciled outside the UK are subject to taxation in those countries in accordance with Results and dividends relevant double taxation treaties.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The three interim dividends totalling 8.20 pence per share, together with the Prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion final dividend of 2.80 pence per share, which will be paid on 8 May The Board is committed to compliance with the UKs Criminal Finances 2019 to shareholders registered on 5 April 2019 subject to approval at Act 2017, designed to prevent tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which the AGM Resolution 3, will bring the total dividend for the year to the Company operates.
The policy is based on a risk assessment 11.00 pence per share.
This represents an increase of 5.8% over the undertaken by the Board and professional advice is sought as and comparable 10.40 pence per share paid in respect of the previous year.
Company status Accounting and going concern The Company is a public limited company and an investment company The Financial Statements, starting on page 60, comply with as defined by section 833 of the Act.
The Company is registered in current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the England and Wales with company registration number 12901 and is Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of subject to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
UK and European legislation and regulations including company law, The significant accounting policies of the Company are set out in financial reporting standards, taxation law and its own articles of note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified auditors opinion on the association.
Financial Statements appears on page 53.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the adoption of the Report and Accounts at the AGM Resolution 1.
32 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report As discussed in note 24 on the Accounts, the Directors believe that, be distributed to shareholders pro rata to their holdings of ordinary in light of the controls and monitoring processes that are in place, shares.
Full details are set out in the Companys articles of association.
the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of Issue and buyback of shares the financial statements.
In considering this, the Directors took into Subject to annual shareholder approval, the Company may purchase account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which up to 14.99% of its own issued ordinary shares, excluding any shares can be used to meet short-term funding commitments, and the ability held in treasury at a discount to NAV per share.
The shares bought of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses.
back can either be cancelled or held in treasury to be sold as and Accordingly, it is reasonable for the financial statements to continue when the share price is at a premium.
Shareholders renewed the to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The Companys longer term Boards authority to make such purchases at the annual general viability is considered in the Ten Year Horizon Statement on page 21. meeting held on 23 April 2018.
No shares were bought back during the year under review or since the year end to the date of this report.
Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her Also at the annual general meeting held on 23 April 2018, knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the shareholders authorised the Board to issue further ordinary shares preparation of the Report and Accounts of which Ernst & Young LLP or sell from treasury up to 5% of the number then in issue.
On one EY or the auditors is unaware and he or she has taken all the occasion during the year, to satisfy demand, the Company sold steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be from treasury 100,000 shares with a nominal value of 25,000 to aware of relevant audit information and to establish that EY is aware JPMorgan Cazenove at a price of 667.5 pence for a total consideration of that information.
of 667,500 before the deduction of issue costs.
A further 1,400,000 shares were sold from treasury to the same entity between the date Reappointment of auditors of the year end and 6 March 2019 being the latest practicable date EY have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors before publication of this report at an average price of 666.0 pence.
to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration for Voting rights and proportional voting the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the AGM Resolutions At 6 March 2019 the Companys 561,819,016 ordinary shares in issue 12 and 13.
Further information in relation to the reappointment can less the 18,138,304 shares held in treasury represented a total of be found on page 50.
As at 31 December 2018 and since that date no notifications of significant voting rights have been received under Capital structure the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
As at 31 December 2018 there were 561,819,016 ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares in issue of which 19,538,304 were Approximately 45% of the Companys share capital is held on behalf held in treasury.
As at 6 March 2019 being the latest practicable of non-discretionary clients through the BMO savings plans.
For date before publication of this report the number of shares in issue those planholders who do not return their voting directions, the remained as 561,819,016 while the number held in treasury was nominee company will vote their shares in proportion to those who 18,138,304. do proportional voting.
Implementation of this arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 610,000 shares that carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer any one individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% of the of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control minimum threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an investor in attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities excess of the maximum limit remain valid, but do not form part of the regarding their transfer known to the Company and no agreement proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude their which the Company is party to that affects its control following a shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
Details of the capital structure can be found in note 17 on the Accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company including Borrowings accumulated revenue reserves, together with the realised capital The Company has a number of borrowing facilities and has in issue profits of the Company, are available for distribution by way of fixed rate senior unsecured private placement notes the Notes.
dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, These include Notes of 75 million principal under a 30-year term after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would issued on 24 May 2018.
There is also a multi-currency overdraft facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank and the Company also has a perpetual Report and Accounts 2018 | 33 debenture stock.
Further reference is made on page 26 and in notes Resolution 7 relates to the re-election of Simon Fraser who 13, 15 and 16 on the accounts.
He brings leadership and much in-depth knowledge, expertise and experience in Remuneration report investment management at a senior level.
Much of his career At the annual general meeting held on 23 April 2018, shareholders was as Chief Investment Officer at Fidelity International.
He approved the Directors remuneration policy.
It is intended that this is founding chairman of the Investor Forum, which provides a policy will continue for the three-year period ending at the annual platform for institutional investors to collectively engage with UK general meeting in 2020, when shareholders will next be asked for listed companies on long-term strategic issues.
He has stated his their approval.
The policy can be found on page 44.
The Remuneration intention to retire from the Board during the year.
Report, which can be found on pages 44 to 46, provides detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors.
Resolution 8 relates to the re-election of Jeffrey Hewitt who was Shareholders will be asked to approve the report at the AGM.
appointed on 15 September 2010 and has a strong accounting Resolution 2. and financial background.
He held a number of senior roles and is an advocate of continuous improvement in the quality of Director re-elections corporate reporting.
The biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The skills and Resolution 9 relates to the re-election of Beatrice Hollond experience each Director brings to the Board for the long-term who was appointed on 1 September 2017.
She brings in-depth sustainable success of the Company are set out below.
All the investment knowledge, expertise, experience in regard to both Directors held office throughout the year under review and will stand equities and global fixed income.
She also brings leadership for re-election by shareholders at the meeting in accordance with the skills from her time as Managing Director of Credit Suisse Asset requirements of the UK Code as defined on page 12.
Management, LLC and from her other non-executive director and chairmanship roles.
Resolution 4 relates to the re-election of Sarah Arkle who was appointed on 2 March 2011 and brings in-depth knowledge, Resolution 10 relates to the re-election of Edward Knapp who expertise and experience in investment management as well as was appointed on 25 July 2016 and has extensive and ongoing leadership skills, most notably from her time as Chief Investment experience in risk, strategy and cyber security.
His current role Officer at Threadneedle Asset Management and as chairman of is as an adviser to the board of a global financial technology another investment trust.
company and has recently worked at senior level within large banking organisations.
Resolution 5 relates to the re-election of Sir Roger Bone who was appointed on 6 March 2008 and has therefore served for Resolution 11 relates to the re-election of Nicholas Moakes who more than nine years.
He brings a wider business perspective was appointed on 2 March 2011.
He is Managing Partner and to the Board both from his current and recent business roles Chief Investment Officer at The Wellcome Trust with extensive and from his distinguished career as a diplomat.
As Senior investment knowledge, expertise and experience in global equity Independent Director, he is leading the succession planning markets and private equity.
Until recently, he was a director of process with the Nomination Committee to ensure the smooth the Investor Forum, which provides a platform for institutional transition of the chairmanship.
investors to collectively engage with UK listed companies on long-term strategic issues.
Resolution 6 relates to the re-election of Francesca Ecsery who was appointed on 1 August 2013 and has special expertise in The Nomination Committee has considered each Director and the multi-platform consumer marketing, branding and commercial Board has concurred with the Nomination Committees assessment strategies which deliver growth and profits.
She provides that each Director is independent, continues to make a valuable and guidance to the Managers marketing team in establishing the effective contribution and remains committed in the role.
necessary infrastructure and initiatives for the effective delivery of the Companys investment proposition and access to its shares.
34 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Governance Report Directors interests and indemnification control, the consequences of which would have been unavoidable There were no contracts of significance to which the Company was a despite all reasonable efforts to the contrary.
party and in which a Director is, or was, materially interested during the year.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Management fees Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Information on the management fees payable by the Company is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 5 and Report of the The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors in Management Engagement Committee on page 41. respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise AGM to a third party for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
This The AGM will be held at Merchants Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle deed of indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision as defined by Street, London, EC2 on Thursday, 2 May 2019 at 12 noon.
The Notice of section 234 of the Act and has been in force throughout the period Meeting appears on pages 88 to 89 and includes a map of the venue.
under review and remains in place as at the date of this report.
It The Fund Manager will give a presentation and there will be an is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during opportunity to ask questions during the meeting.
Shareholders will be normal business hours and at the AGM.
The Company also maintains able to meet the Directors informally over refreshments afterwards.
directors and officers liability insurance.
Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury Safe custody of assets Resolutions 14 and 15 The Companys listed investments are held in safe custody by By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant JPMorgan Chase Bank the Custodian.
Operational matters with the rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
In Custodian are carried out on the Companys behalf by the Manager addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders before via BMO GAM in accordance with the provisions of the investment allotting new shares or granting rights over shares for cash or management agreement.
The Custodian is paid a variable fee selling shares out of treasury, without first offering them to existing dependent on the number of trades transacted and location of the shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 14 gives the Directors the necessary authority to allot Depositary securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.7m, 27.1m JPMorgan Europe Limited the Depositary acts as the Companys ordinary shares, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the Depositary in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Companys current issued share capital calculated exclusive of any Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Depositarys responsibilities, which shares held by the Company in treasury as at 6 March 2019, being are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys the latest practicable date before the publication of the notice of the website, include: cash monitoring: ensuring the proper segregation AGM.
The authority and power expires at the conclusion of the annual and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments that are held general meeting in 2020 or on 30 June 2020, whichever is the earlier.
by the Custodian: and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment and leverage limits requirements.
The Depositary receives Resolution 15 empowers the Directors to allot such securities for for its services a fee of one basis point per annum on the first 1 cash, other than to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis and billion of the Companys net assets and 0.25 basis points per annum also to sell treasury shares without first offering them to existing on net assets in excess of that amount, payable monthly in arrears.
shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an aggregate nominal amount also of 6.7m representing approximately 5% of Although the Depositary has delegated the safekeeping of all assets the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 6 March 2019, held within the Companys investment portfolio to the Custodian, calculated exclusive of any shares held in treasury.
in the event of loss of those assets that constitute financial instruments under the AIFMD, the Depositary will be obliged to return These authorities provide the Directors with a degree of flexibility to the Company financial instruments of an identical type, or the to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new shares or corresponding amount of money, unless it can demonstrate that the the sale of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies set out loss has arisen as a result of an external event beyond its reasonable on page 17 or should any other favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 35 The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use them to satisfy system.
Please either complete, sign and return the form of proxy demand from participants in the BMO Savings Plans when they in the envelope provided as soon as possible in accordance with the believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Companys instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy vote via the Internet shareholders to do so.
Under no circumstances would the Directors or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be use them to issue shares or sell treasury shares at a price which would present at the AGM.
This will not preclude you from attending and result in a dilution of NAV per ordinary share.
voting in person if you so wish.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares All proxy appointments should in any event be returned or lodged so Resolution 16 as to be received not later than 48 hours before the time appointed At the annual general meeting held in 2018 the Company was for holding the AGM.
authorised to purchase approximately 14.99% of its own shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The number of shares remaining Form of direction and proportional voting under that authority as at 31 December 2018 was 81,270,000 shares or If you are an investor in any of the BMO Savings Plans, you will have 14.99% of the issued share capital exclusive of the number of shares received a form of direction for use at the AGM and you will also have held in treasury.
Resolution 16 will authorise the renewal of such the option of lodging your voting directions using the Internet.
BMO authority enabling the Company to purchase in the market up to a operates a proportional voting arrangement, which is explained on maximum of 81,270,000 ordinary shares equivalent to approximately page 33.
14.99% of the issued share capital exclusive of treasury shares and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought exclusive All voting directions should be made as soon as possible in accordance of expenses, reflecting requirements of the Act and the Listing Rules.
with the instructions on the form of direction and, in any event, not later than 12 noon on 25 April 2019, so that the nominee company can The Directors will continue to use this authority in accordance with submit a form of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
the policy set out on page 17.
Under the Act, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of Voting recommendation having to cancel them.
This gives the Company the ability to reissue Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively including pursuant AGM are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Board to the authority under Resolution 15, see above and provides the therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of each Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital resolution, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own base.
Such shares may be resold for cash but all rights attaching to beneficial holdings.
them, including voting rights and any right to receive dividends are suspended whilst they are in the treasury.
If the Board exercises the By order of the Board authority conferred by Resolution 16, the Company will have the BMO Investment Business Limited option of either holding in treasury or of cancelling any of its shares Secretary purchased pursuant to this authority and will decide at the time of 11 March 2019 purchase which option to pursue.
Purchases of ordinary shares under the authority will be financed out of realised revenue and or capital reserves and funded from the Companys own cash resources or, if appropriate, from short-term borrowings.
The authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue until the annual general meeting in 2020 or on 30 June 2020, whichever is the earlier.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
Form of proxy for AGM voting If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the AGM.
You will also have the option of lodging your proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares held through CREST, proxy appointments may be submitted via the CREST proxy voting 36 | F&C Investment Trust PLC
