20 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL Our business model spans the full mining value chain from exploration, development and construction, to mining operations, supported by strategic resources and relationships essential to the effective execution of the business.
WHAT WE DO Gold and silver mining is the heart of our business model.
We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process.
We ensure the longevity of our business by exploring and developing new projects.
1 EXPLORE 2 DEVELOP 3 OPERATE 4 SUSTAIN RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Underpinned by our values: Integrity, trust, responsibility and loyalty, which demonstrate our ethical culture and are embedded in our behaviours.
OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is intrinsically linked to our business model: 1.
Ensure business continuity and growth by replenishing depleted reserves and See pages 44-48. maintaining a robust growth pipeline 2.
Deliver profitable growth by advancing new projects towards commissioning, See page 49. while optimising cash flow and returns 3.
Maximise the potential of existing operations while maintaining our position See pages 50-65. as a leading low-cost producer 4.
Responsible business practices are embedded in our business model See pages 66-84.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS VALUE CREATION The key resources and relationships that underpin our business model: Our activities create economic value in the regions where we operate through wages and benefits, payments to local contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state H PEOPLE and federal taxes.
We rely on the skills, experience and We have a skilled workforce commitment of our people to meet of 5,139 unionised workers ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED our business goals.
Attracting, engaging and employees and 12,462 and developing the best talent are key contractors, supported by an 5.03% 0.20% to the execution of our strategic plan.
experienced and value-driven 12.78% 81.98% leadership team.
US$ million See our people 2018 on pages 69-70.
Payments to suppliers contractors 1,447.20 N NATURAL RESOURCES US$1,765.23m Payments to federal government 225.62 Our operations rely on a range of natural 1.8 million hectares of resources, including surface land, water, surface land in mining Wages and benefits to workers 88.83 energy and fuel.
Optimising our use of concessions in Mexico.
Payments to local these resources, minimising the impact of 1,321 megalitres of recycled governments 3.57 our activities and being transparent and water in our processes accountable regarding our environmental efficiency of 80.16%.
FOR EMPLOYEES footprint are essential to maintaining our 26,000 tonnes of CO e 2 licence to operate.
avoided through the use We aim to provide a safe working environment with training of renewable energies.
US$88.8 million in benefits and payments to employees.
See environment 293 I Care, We Care workshops provided to 9,991 on pages 76-80. employees and contractors.
S RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS FOR COMMUNITIES Our social licence to operate is our most We work with more than 230 We invest in the local communities where we operate and aim valuable intangible asset.
to minimise our environmental impacts.
from our stakeholders mitigates the risk of See our stakeholders Social investment through direct contributions to local conflicts that would otherwise compromise on pages 22-23. communities: US$3.1 million.
our ability to execute our business strategy.
Reading programmes benefitting 8,500 children F FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND CONTROL in 72 schools.
1,321 megalitres of water recycled in our processes We maintain strict controls on cash, costs Healthy balance sheet efficiency of 80.2%.
and expenses and adhere rigidly to capex and low leverage ratio.
Our healthy position regarding Total equity of FOR GOVERNMENT 1 cash and other liquid funds, balanced by US$3,128.3 million.
We comply with all applicable laws and generate economic our low leverage ratio, ensure sufficient See our strategy value through our operations.
resources to invest in advancing our pipeline on pages 24-27.
Obtain exploration, mining rights and environmental permits.
and delivering returns to shareholders.
Mining concession paid: US$13.3 million.
M PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT FOR SHAREHOLDERS Our assets, which include properties, Net book value of property, infrastructure, processing plants and mining plant and equipment We generate sustainable long-term financial returns.
equipment, give us the capacity to meet our of US$2,693.1 million.
We operate these assets Profit for the year US$350 million.
See the Finance Review with a focus on continuous improvement in Earnings per share 0.48 US$ share.
on pages 85-97. productivity and greater efficiency in the US$298.1 million paid in dividends.
consumption of materials and energy.
FOR SUPPLIERS I TECHNOLOGY We offer fair prices and provide technical support to We leverage the knowledge of our employees Ongoing investments in our suppliers.
to identify and implement innovative and the latest intelligent solutions effective technological solutions to support to improve safety, productivity FOR CUSTOMERS decision making and meet the challenges and decision-making, as well Treatment and refining charges: US$141.2 million in 2018. associated with new projects, maturing mines as identify and address gaps in with declining ore grades, and rising social and cyber security.
We ensure that our networks, systems and data are secure, We are active members of several mining organisations and in accordance with best practice.
associations, where we use our influence to promote greater recognition of the advantages that mining brings to society.
We have linked our resources and relationships to the Capitals outlined in the International Integrated Reporting Councils IIRCs framework.
H N S Human Natural Social 1 Cash and other liquid funds are disclosed in note 30c to the Financial Statements.
