08 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FRESNILLO TODAY The economic environment may change, For example, by the time of the IPO our Continuous exploration, across but quality opportunities will always teams had identified significant potential price cycles and through all endure.
Since our earliest days, we have on a site on the Chihuahua Durango economic conditions, is a key maintained a strategic commitment to border.
In July 2017, this site became fully continuous exploration regardless of operational as the San Julin silver-gold competitive advantage for fluctuations in the prices of precious mine.
Last year, it contributed 23.7% Fresnillo, and one of the metals.
of our total silver production and features of our approach accounted for 16.3% of the Group That commitment has meant that we Adjusted revenue.
to mining which makes us have been able to stock our pipeline with distinctly different from JUANICIPIO: a steady flow of projects.
As is the nature OUR NEXT PROJECT IN THE PIPELINE our peers.
It has been the of the mining industry, some of these 1 have inevitably not proceeded for The Juanicipio project is a joint venture foundation for our past various reasons.
However, a number of with MAG Silver of which we own 56%.
performance while also them have developed from geological This standalone project, which is located being the platform for possibilities into potential projects in the Fresnillo District, eight kilometres and in some cases into operating mines from our Fresnillo mine, was first identified our achievements in delivering high quality production.
as a potential silver gold project over ten years to come.
1 Not a joint venture for accounting purposes.
RESOURCES EQ AG OZ PER SHARE Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PIPELINE We are currently finalising plans for GROWTH IN RESOURCES construction as well as operating agreements, and look forward to announcing the next steps in the 6,000 8.0 near future.
5,098 moz 7.0 5,000 2018 Silver equivalent resources Juanicipio will be the next project to 6.0 emerge from our exploration pipeline, 4,000 5.0 but it will certainly not be the last.
Several potential projects are currently under 3,000 4.0 evaluation, not only in Mexico but also 3.0 in Peru and Chile.
