148 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Directors believe that the requisite components of this report are set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and or on the Companys website www.
The table sets out where the necessary disclosures can be found.
Directors Directors that have served during the year and summaries of the current Directors key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 102 to 105.
Results and dividends Results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out in the Financial Review on pages 85 to 87 and the Consolidated Income Statement on page 164.
Information regarding the proposed final dividend can be found in the Financial Review on page 97. Dividend payments made during the year ended 31 December 2018 can be found in the notes to the financial statements on page 233.
Articles of Association Any amendments made to the Articles of Association may be made by a special resolution of shareholders.
The following is a summary of the structure, rights and restrictions of the Companys share capital: The Company has two classes of share capital: 736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by UK law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation represented by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than: the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out in article 32 of the Articles of Association: where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
A Director may be elected either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, but so that the total number of Directors shall not thereby exceed the maximum in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Any person so appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferable.
The Companys full Articles of Association can be found on the Companys website.
com who-we-are corporate-governance Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 17 to the financial statements on page 197.
Authority to purchase Details on the Companys current authority to purchase its own shares and that being sought at the own shares forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 115.
Directors interests Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 136.
Directors indemnities The Company has given indemnities to each of the Directors in respect of any liability arising against them in connection with the Companys and any associated companys activities in the conduct of their duties.
These indemnities are subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006 and remain in place at the date of this report.
Directors and Officers Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date of this report.
Cover is reviewed Liability Insurance annually and the last renewal was carried out in October 2018.
Major interests Notifiable major share interests of which the Company has been made aware of are set out on page 115 in shares of the Corporate Governance Report.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Change of control Details setting out the effect of a change of control of the Company on significant agreements are set out on the Companys website.
com who-we-are corporate-governance Political contributions The Company did not make any donations to political organisations during the year.
Payments to In June 2018, the Company approved and published a report disclosing payments made to governments governments.
The report can be found on the Companys website.
Modern Slavery The Company has approved and published on its website its Modern Slavery Statement in accordance Statement with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. http: www.
com  modern-slavery Diversity policy In February 2018 the Company approved and published on its website its policy on diversity.
com  our-policies UK tax strategy The Companys UK tax strategy for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 is published on its website.
com  tax-strategy Greenhouse gas Details of the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Social and Sustainability Report emissions on page 77 of the Strategic Report.
Financial risk Details of the Companys policies on financial risk management and the Companys exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are outlined in note 30 to the financial statements.
Branches outside The Companys operations are outside the UK.
the UK Activities in research The Company does not have any research and development activities.
and development Future developments Details about the Companys future developments can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 08 and 09.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Post-balance sheet There have been no post-balance sheet events.
events Audit information Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he she has taken all the reasonable steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Additional Listing Disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C are identified below along with cross-references Rule disclosures indicating where the relevant information is set out in the Annual Report: Capitalised interest for the year ended 31 December 2018 and information regarding tax relief can be found on page 194.
Details of significant contracts with controlling shareholders can be found on pages 128 to 129.
Details pertaining to services provided to the Company by Peoles are set out on pages 204 to 205.
Statement confirming agreement has been entered into with controlling shareholder and that independence provisions are complied with can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 109.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Charles Jacobs Senior Independent Director 25 February 2019 Fresnillo plc Registered Office: 21 Upper Brook Street London, W1K 7PY United Kingdom Company No: 6344120
