42 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT AND GOING CONCERN STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and taking into account the Groups current position and its principal risks for a period longer than the 12 months required by the going concern statement, management prepared a viability analysis which was assessed by the Board for approval.
The Directors reviewed the viability It was determined that none of the Scenario 4: Flooding at a mine.
An period and confirmed that a five-year individual risks would in isolation unforeseen fault containing water is cut period to December 2023 remained compromise the Groups viability.
The into, with water then entering the mine suitable, in line with the nature of Directors therefore went on to group in excess of pumping capacity, thereby planning in the mining industry and the principal risks into the following severe halting production of one of the main Companys five-year forecast period but plausible scenarios, in each case areas in the mine.
The ramp-up to normally used to evaluate liquidity and determining the risk proximity how pre-event production levels commences contingency plans.
It allows us to model soon the risk could occur and velocity once management determines that it is capital expenditure and development the speed with which the impact of a safe to do so.
Singular event programmes planned during the risk could be felt : timeframe, and reflects cash flows Scenario 5: Action by the Government generated by the projects currently Scenario 1: Impact of metal prices and at a mine.
Explosives are stolen on site under development.
Due to the long global macroeconomic developments.
causing the authorities to suspend the business cycles in our industry, the Over a period of a year, precious metal mines explosives permit.
Production is Directors considered that a shorter prices fall and then remain at a low level halted while an investigation into the time period would be insufficient.
for the following four years of the viability matter is completed.
Once permits have period, varying between US$1,179 1,292 been restored, production ramps back Reporting on the Companys viability per gold oz.
and US$14.7 18.2 per silver up to pre-event levels.
Principal risk requires the Directors to consider those oz.
To create this impartial projection for principal risks that could impair the the future low metal price environment, Scenario 6: Access to land at a mine.
solvency and liquidity of the Company.
the Directors used an average of the Conflicts with local communities arise In order to determine those risks, the three lowest forecasts from each year resulting in the Company having to Directors robustly assessed the Groupof the assessment, based on consensus cease operations, until negotiations wide principal risks and operation-specific estimates published by institutional can be finalised and the land can be risks by undertaking consultations with financial analysts.
This low metal price re-occupied.
Principal risk executive management, mine managers environment was deemed to be the and other personnel across our most significant risk and pervasive Scenario 7: The removal of concessions operations.
Through these conversations, across the Company.
Principal risk by the Government at a mine.
Congress the Directors also identified low approves a new law enabling the Ministry probability, high loss scenarios singular Scenario 2: Bench collapse at an open of Economics to withdraw a concession.
events with the potential magnitude pit mine.
A landslide occurs covering It is determined that a negative social to severely impact the solvency and or the lower pit of one of our mines.
Due impact took place following the rupturing liquidity of Fresnillo.
to the unexpected nature of the event, of a cyanide tank, leading to the poisoning fatalities occur.
Production is gradually of the surrounding community.
The For the purpose of assessing the Groups ramped back up and re-established to Government withdraws all permits and viability, the Directors identified that of full capacity.
Singular event mining concessions, with no intention of the principal risks detailed on page 29, reinstating them in the future.
This leads the following are the most important: Scenario 3: Tailings deposit breach at to the permanent closure of the mine for a mine.
A tailings deposit collapses and the duration of the viability period, while Impact of metal prices and global tailings are released into the surrounding mitigating actions are undertaken.
macroeconomic developments, area, causing environmental damage.
Principal risk specifically volatility in the prices of A fund is created by the Company to be gold and silver over a period of time.
used to remediate and compensate for The hypothetical scenarios above are Access to land.
The investigation extremely severe in order to create Potential actions by the government into the causes of the event is drawn outcomes that have the ability to which could include a delay in out and further time is needed for all threaten the viability of the Group.
obtaining permits and or new environmental permits to be reinstated.
However, multiple control measures restrictive regulations.
As a result, the mine remains closed are in place to prevent and mitigate any Environmental incidents.
throughout the viability assessment such occurrences.
Should any of these period.
Principal risk scenarios take place, various options are available to the Company in order to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue in operation.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When quantifying the expected financial negative cash balance in some periods.
confident that management is able to impact and remediation time required Nevertheless, by applying certain sufficiently mitigate any situations as for each of these risks, management mitigating actions that the company they might occur.
performed benchmarking against the has identified, these problems were Groups own experience and against successfully alleviated, allowing for the Risk mitigation and control measures publicly available information on relevant, continuity of the Companys operations.
in place include a Crisis Committee, similar incidents in the mining industry.
while the Board would also be briefed The lowest cash balance level was and convened as necessary, in order It is currently anticipated that all or identified in scenario number three, to respond to events as they develop.
part of the US$800 million Senior in combination with the low metal Dedicated personnel for managing Notes issued in 2013 will be refinanced.
This scenario presents media, engaging with authorities and However, to take into account the a negative cash balance from 2020, other stakeholders are appointed at each possibility that market conditions at with the lowest cash balance in 2023 level of the organisation, depending on the time will not permit refinancing US$-283m.
If this scenario materialises, the magnitude of the crisis.
on acceptable terms, all the scenarios the Company can undertake the outlined above, including such that used following mitigating actions: deferral of Based on the results of this analysis, depressed metal prices, assume that investments in the Orisyvo project during and having considered the established Senior Notes are paid in full in 2023, the viability period and a considerable controls for the risks and the available in accordance with their maturity.
reduction in exploration expenses in mitigating actions, the Directors have a 2020, which would result in this scenario reasonable expectation that the Group All scenarios were first evaluated using maintaining a positive cash balance will be able to continue in operation and 1 average metal prices, there were no throughout the viability period, with a meet its liabilities as they fall due over mitigations necessary, it was decided minimum cash balance of US$7 million the five-year period of their detailed that there was no threat to the viability of during the second year 2020. assessment.
This longer term assessment the Company.
To create a more stringent process supports the Directors test and further challenge the resilience Risk management and internal control statements on both viability, as set out of the Group, all scenarios were then systems are in place page 28 above, and going concern, made below.
overlaid with scenario one, low metal throughout the Group.
Through the prices and then re-evaluated.
internal control systems, the Directors monitor key variables that have the When these scenarios were re-modelled, ability to impact the liquidity and liquidity problems arose reflecting a solvency of the Group, and we are GOING CONCERN STATEMENT exploration expenditures which The Groups business activities, conservative cash flow scenario with could be deferred without adversely together with the factors likely to affect reduced silver and gold prices of affecting production profiles its future development, performance US$14.8 and US$1,187 respectively throughout the period.
Finally and position are set out in the Strategic throughout this period, while management could amend the Review on pages 14 to 97.
The financial maintaining current budgeted mining plans to concentrate on position of the Group, its cash flows expenditure while only considering production with a higher margin in and liquidity position are described in projects approved by the Executive order to accelerate cash generation the Financial Review in pages 85 to 97.
This resulted in our without affecting the integrity of the In addition, note 30 to the financial current cash balances reducing over mine plans.
statements includes the Groups time but maintaining ample liquidity objectives, policies and processes for throughout the period.
After reviewing all of the above managing its capital: its financial risk The Directors have further calculated considerations, the Directors have management objectives: details of its prices US$14.2 and US$1,110 for silver a reasonable expectation that financial instruments and hedging and gold respectively, which should management has sufficient flexibility activities: and its exposures to credit they prevail to the end of 2020, would in adverse circumstances to maintain risk and liquidity risk.
result in cash balances decreasing to adequate resources to continue in minimal levels by the end of 2020, operational existence for the In making their assessment of the without applying mitigations.
The Directors, Groups ability to manage its future therefore, continue to adopt the cash requirements, the Directors have Should metal prices remain below the going concern basis of accounting considered the Company and Group stressed prices above for an extended in preparing the annual financial budgets and the cash flow forecasts period, management has identified statements.
for the period to 31 December 2020. specific elements of capital and In addition, they reviewed a more 1 The average metals price derived from a range of Financial Institutions analysis as of December 2018.
