Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR MARKETS FRESNILLO IN CONTEXT As a major player in the global precious metals industry, we are Amongst major precious metal mining impacted by the dynamics of the silver and gold markets.
companies, Fresnillo is unique in that silver and gold each make significant Mexico has a long-established history of mining going back contributions to the Groups revenue, and also because all our operations more than 500 years, underpinned by its vast geological are located in Mexico.
As such, we are potential, skilled workforce, robust mining laws and exposed to the market dynamics of mechanisms for creating shared value.
both the global precious metals industry, as well as those specific to companies operating in Mexico.
We are now exploring opportunities to apply the expertise and knowledge we have gained over the years to new locations in In silver, we consider our peer group Mexico as well as elsewhere in Latin America.
to be other primary silver mining companies, notwithstanding the fact PEER GROUP: PRIMARY SILVER PRODUCERS PRODUCTION IN MOZ that close to two thirds of global output is derived as a by-product of gold, lead, 60 zinc and copper mines.
Irrespective, Fresnillo has long been the top global 50 producer of silver, both by-product and primary, and we aim to maintain that 40 leadership position going forward.
30 We are also Mexicos largest gold producer, with our peers being other 20 global gold mining companies producing similar levels of annual production.
10 THE PRECIOUS METALS MARKET 0 Silver prices traded at a low of US$14.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fresnillo plc Polymetal International plc Hochschild Mining plc Hecla Mining Company Coeur Mining, Inc. oz in November to a high of US$17.6 oz Silver Corp Metals Inc. Silver Standard Resources Inc. at the beginning of 2018, ending the year 8.5% down.
The average realised PEER GROUP: GLOBAL SILVER PRODUCERS BY-PRODUCT & PRIMARY PRODUCTION IN MOZ price also decreased, down 8.3% from US$16.9 oz in 2017 to US$15.5 oz in 60 2018.
Gold, on the other hand, ended the year marginally down -1.6%, with the 50 average realised price remaining broadly flat at US$1,269.1 oz 0.1% year-on- 40 year.
This difference between prices for the two metals is a continuation of the 30 tendency that has been evident since 2011, as seen in the gold silver ratio, with 20 silver generally only outperforming gold in strong precious metal environments.
10 2018 was a year where both gold and 0 silver prices remained under pressure 2015 2016 2017 2018 with the US dollar strengthening, the Fresnillo plc KGHM Polska Miedz S. A. Goldcorp Inc. Pan American Silver Corp. South32 Limited BHP Billiton US Federal Reserve raising interest rates three times during the year, and a PEER GROUP: MEDIUM-SIZE GOLD PRODUCERS PRODUCTION IN KOZ buoyant US economy driven by the tax cuts in the first half, all fuelling positive 2,000 investor sentiment.
1,500 1,000 500 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Agnico Eagle Mines Limited Randgold Resources Limited Polymetal International plc Fresnillo plc OceanaGold Corporation Petropavlovsk plc Coeur Mining Inc. Hochschild Mining plc 18 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Centauro Pit at Herradura.
Our strategy has always been to invest across all price cycles, while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
That said, the fourth quarter saw a positive Silver demand, where industrial demand of high inflation and low interest rates, and movement in the prices of both metals, represents approximately 60%, is as a means to diversify away from the US bolstered by the possibility of the US expected to continue contracting, driven dollar.
In some markets, gold has a strong Federal Reserve slowing its monetary by year-on-year declines in investment cultural allure, again with China and India tightening path going into 2019, driven demand.
This is in part driven by factors leading the demand for gold jewellery.
by the possibility of a weakening in the US, as investors have looked This year has seen Central Banks US economy.
to the secondary markets for bar returning to buying gold, with levels and coin purchases, as well as factors of activity not seen since 2015.
Banks Fresnillo plc does not take a position on elsewhere, such as a weakening are adding to their foreign reserves where prices, demand or sentiment are economic climate that has dampened to counterbalance fiat currency risk, headed: however, we do monitor price demand in China.
Industrial demand especially as emerging market banks tend movements and market dynamics however remained robust, reflecting to hold high allocations of US treasuries.
using primarily third party analysis and the metals unique characteristics.
forecasts in order to support our financial These include exceptionally high As mentioned earlier, the short-term projections and cash management electrical and thermal conductivity which performance of gold is strongly impacted strategies, and prices will continue to make silver an important component by the perception of risk in the global influence budget considerations in areas across a wide range of products, from economy, the strength of the US dollar such as exploration and the timing of electronics to antibacterial applications.
and the impact of economic reform.
the longer term, gold is supported by Looking ahead, with the continued a growing middle class in emerging SUPPLY AND DEMAND decline of silver in photographic usage not markets and the continued perception being offset by an increase in photovoltaic of golds role as a store of wealth.
SILVER usage, as has been the case in previous Mine output provides the majority of See the Silver Institute and World Gold years, silver supply is anticipated to remain silver supply, with the remainder coming Council websites for current industry and in surplus resulting in the silver price from recycling and scrap.
This year, total market information.
continuing to come under pressure.
silver supply is forecast to reach 998.4 1 moz.
According to the Silver Institute, KEY INDUSTRY TRENDS GOLD the market is expected to see a physical The global mining industry is subject to a As with silver, mine output accounts for surplus in 2018 of 35.3 moz, driven by number of underlying trends that impact the majority of the global gold supply, mine supply returning to growth after its competitiveness and viability.
As many with recycled material making up two years of decline and physical of these trends are aligned with our key the difference.
In 2018, global gold demand expected to contract, driven risks, we include detailed analysis of their production marginally increased, by lower bar and coin demand.
implications, as well as our response and 2 with 4,490 tonnes being produced.
mitigating actions, on pages 28 to 41.
The supply side growth in production Demand for gold has traditionally been was marginal, and well below the high driven by its status as a safe haven of 895.1 moz in 2015.
Consumers and investors due to no new large deposits being acquire the metal to protect their savings found following a trend of lower capital and purchasing power in an environment expenditure by miners in prior years.
1 Refinitiv Interim Silver Market Review, 15 November 2018 New York City.
2 World Gold Council, Gold Demand Trends Full year and Q4 2018, 31 January 2019.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND A MOVE TO RENEWABLE RESOURCE REPLACEMENT SOURCES OF ENERGY COUNTRY CHALLENGES With precious metal prices remaining As with many extractive industries, SPECIFIC TO FRESNILLO PLC under pressure, the focus for many precious metal mining activities CORRUPTION, PART OF POTENTIAL mining companies has continued to be contribute to greenhouse gas emissions, ACTIONS BY THE GOVERNMENT on strengthening their balance sheets, and miners therefore have a clear duty to PRINCIPAL RISK NUMBER 2 sustaining their current production be environmentally responsible.
The shift levels and growing their reserves and towards greater responsibility is moving See page 31. resources.
For many, the latter two aims the industry towards a cleaner future, as are proving challenging, following many it actively makes operational changes to SECURING LAND ACCESS years of under investment in exploration.
reduce GHG emissions and improve PRINCIPAL RISK NUMBER 3 As we saw towards the end of 2018 energy efficiency.
and early in 2019, there has been a See page 32.
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FRESNILLO consolidation of mining companies through acquisition.
As described on page 78, Fresnillo is SECURITY PRINCIPAL committed to ensuring that renewable RISK NUMBER 4 THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FRESNILLO sources provide 75% of all our electricity Our consistent strategy has always been needs by the end of 2019.
Additionally, See page 33. to invest across all price cycles, while in conjunction with Caterpillar, we have maintaining a strong balance sheet.
This trialled and are now looking to roll out dual focus has been, and continues to be, the use of Liquid Natural Gas, reducing a key differentiator for Fresnillo it has the need for diesel usage in our haulage enabled us to build a solid foundation truck fleet at our open pit operations.
from which we continue to look to grow through exploration, adding only low Our business model and strategy cost, quality ounces, thereby not diluting have remained consistent over time, our resource base.
maintaining our conservative approach to growth and leverage, combined with a MAINTAINING OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE commitment to operational excellence, responsible business practices and Miners must navigate complex issues disciplined capital allocation.
Together, and regulations in order to maintain their these combine to provide valuable licences to operate and grow sustainable downside protection, enabling us to businesses.
Environmental and social deliver year-on-year stakeholder factors are increasingly important issues, returns, even in the current market with resource nationalism in many environment.
At the same time, upside jurisdictions affecting regulation and potential remains high given our taxation.
In addition, pressure from consistent investment in exploration.
non-governmental organisations NGOs and communities, both organised and ad THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IN MEXICO hoc, can lead to work stoppages, project closures and increased pressure for more Mexico has the second largest economy tangible community benefits and shared in Latin America and is characterised by value creation mechanisms.
a mature and relatively stable tax and legal framework.
Despite the countrys THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FRESNILLO 500 year tradition of mining, its geological potential remains as strong as ever, with We strive to ensure that the communities just under 350 companies undertaking close to our operations benefit from the 3 mining projects in the country.
The success of our business.
Initiatives such as industry directly employs over 370,000 the Picando Letras reading programme, people and represents 2.5% of Mexicos a wide range of health programmes 4 national GDP.
Mexico continues to and shared activities have proved very be the largest producer of silver in successful in improving the lives and the world and a top global producer of prospects of those who depend on us gold, copper and zinc, amongst other or are impacted by our operations.
All of Fresnillos current To learn more about what it is we do for our operations are located in Mexico and local communities and how we maintain our we remain committed to the long-term licence to operate see pages 81-84. opportunities in the country.
Presidential and congressional elections were held in 2018 and a new administration took office on 1 December 2018.
mx Web SINEM mining mining companies.
