Strategic report Value proposition for borrowers Fast flexible finance At Funding Circle, we combine sophisticated technology with ahuman touch.
In addition to our cutting-edge lending software and programmes, our dedicated account managers ensure the smooth running of all customer applications and relationships.
And its a model SMEs appreciate.
Indeed, the appeal of An industry-leading borrower service ourvalue proposition for borrowers is reflected in our high Delivering on price, speed, access and convenience, we provide customer satisfaction scores.
In both the UK and the US, a service to SME borrowers that is first class.
Through a simple weachieved a net promoter score between 80 and 90 in online application, we deliver fast, flexible and competitively 2018, which is a world class ranking.
These high levels priced products.
This offer is underpinned by expert risk ofsatisfaction encourage repeat custom.
management and analytics, enabling us to offer: In 2018, 35% of all originations generated through our platform Speed and simplicity: were to repeat borrowers.
According to a 2018 survey conducted - Our simple online application is faster and easier than by Oxford Economics, 85% of our borrowers said they would traditional lending channels, meaning SMEs can access approach us first should they need additional financing in thecapital they need in days rather than months.
takes around ten minutes to complete the application process, and only a small number of additional documents are required.
We generally make credit decisions within 24 hours in the UK, and within one to three days in the Netherlands, Germany andtheUS.
8090 NPS Net promoter score in UK and US in 2018 Competitive market-driven pricing: - Our online platform lending model provides competitive and transparent pricing for borrowers starting at 1.9% a year for 35% an A rated six-month loan in the UK.
of all originations were repeat borrowers in 2018 Outstanding customer experience and ease of use: - Were continually focused on delivering excellent customer service.
Our aim is to enhance the user experience and make 85% the application process as efficient as possible.
of our borrowers said they would approach us first By creating what is effectively a bond market for SMEs, should they need additional financing in the future weveenabled access to a diverse range of investors.
Thisdiversity offers SMEs more robust funding in the event ofan economic downturn.
Six months after the UKs EU referendum, the British Business Bank committed 40 million to lend through our platform to help stimulate the UKs small business ecosystem.
16 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report The average borrower Funding Circle focuses exclusively on SME lending.
Borrowers across Funding Circles geographies have, on average, approximately 950,000 of revenue per annum, eight employees and a trading history of ten years.
The average loan size is approximately 70,000.
Loans originated through Funding Circles platform are fully amortising, with terms ranging between six and 60 months and an average loan term of 52 months.
Interest rates on loans originated through the platform have averaged Funding Circle convinced approximately 11%.
Borrowers must have a trading history of at least two years.
me: finance that I could Funding Circle benefits from a highly diversified borrower access quickly and without base across geographies and industries, largely in line with much hassle.
the general population of SMEs, which helps to ensure stable returns and mitigates the adverse effects of a downturn in the economy.
10 years Weitblick of trading history 950,000 annual turnover Thomas Lerch is the owner of Hotel Weitblick in the Bavarian Alps.
Weitblick 8 employees means wide view or foresight a truly fitting name for the panoramic view guests enjoy.
With 30 years of experience in the hospitality business and two established hotels in the area, Thomas decided to build a new four-star wellness and conference facility.
With a loan from Funding Circle he hired and trained 70 new staff for the grand opening.
The investment paid off: in its first year Hotel Weitblick already had a turnover of 1,000,000.
17 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report GOING FURTHER Manna Lebensmittel Manna Lebensmittel is a wholesale supermarket and delicatessen offering a large selection of highquality Greek food brands in Bad Cannstatt, apart of Stuttgart.
Managing Director and Owner  accessed 140,000 through Funding Circle in early 2018 to expand his product range and increase his inventory.
Amount borrowed by Manna Lebensmittel 140,000 Funding Circle Holdings plc 18 Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
