BUSINESS OVERVIEW: SECURE SOLUTIONS 8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 A CONNECTED WORLD MEANS COLLECTIVE CHALLENGES Our strategy anticipates and addresses global security challenges and trends and ensures G4S is well positioned in an industry expected to grow 4 - 6% per annum from 2017 to 2027.
With our global footprint in more than 90 countries, an attractive range of products and services, and security expertise, we are well positioned to meet this increased demand.
We continue to develop innovative industryleading solutions that integrate consulting, technology, people and data analytics to deliver solutions that are relevant, valuable and effective for our customers.
We are investing in an efficient and effective organisation with strong values and a positive embedded safety culture.
Freedonia Security Services Report, October 2018.
Our values in action Department of Work & Pensions, UK In April 2018, G4S commenced the integrated security contract for over 790 properties in the UK, including job centres, for the Department of Work & Pensions DWP.
The contract will run for an initial period of five years, with the potential for a two year extension thereafter.
The DWPs objective was to procure a security service supportive of their transformation programme which aims to reduce costs, whilst maintaining safety of the users of its properties.
"We will be modernising the way security is provided using an Effects-Based Methodology ""Security Threat Risk Assessment"" which has been aligned with the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure best practice."
Essentially we are looking to minimise threats byreducing and better managing anxiety of members of the public at DWP sites, reducing the likelihood of incidentsoccurring.
The contract, one of the largest integrated security contracts to be awarded in the UK, will combine G4Ss security technology with professionally trained G4S security officers across the DWP estate, providing an innovative and cost effective solution to meet the customers needs.
This is consistent with our values of Security, Service Excellence, Innovation and Teamwork.
SDGs: Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 9 BUSINESS OVERVIEW: SECURE SOLUTIONS G4S A WORLD LEADER IN INTEGRATED SECURITY MARKET AND SOCIETAL TRENDS HOW WE ARE POSITIONED Demand for security is increasing across theglobe Global footprint International and domestic crime remains a significant threat to society, requiring not only protective security, but also 4-6% 90 COUNTRIES heightened intelligence and analysis of risk and response.
G4S is a market leader and we provide a broad range Thisheightened awareness provides support for growth in Growth per annum of products and services across more than 90 countries.
Barriers to entry in basic manned for security services This breadth provides us with a strong understanding security are low, which can result in intense competition in some between 2017-2027 and clear visibility of how security trends are evolving markets.
The barriers to entry are much higher for integrated across the world.
security where G4S has significant, and growing capability which stems from our scale and resources.
Customers buying processes Deep understanding are increasingly complex $80bn 100 YEARS HERITAGE Globalisation and the increasing use of technology creates a complex set of security risks and threats which We support our knowledge of global security trends means that the procurement of security services is a market value for security with a deep understanding of our customers unique critical activity in an increasing number of customers systems integration needs.
We have an enviable heritage with more than organisations.
The global market for security systems 100 years in the security industry.
integration is projected to be $80bn by 2021.
Resource scarcity and population growth Security professionals and expertise The worlds population is growing, becoming more urbanised and increasingly prosperous, placing significant 4% 514,000 COLLEAGUES strains on raw materials, energy resources and food and We recruit, screen and deploy almost 200,000 new water supplies.
Global GDP growth per colleagues each year.
We have around 514,000 annum 2018 to 2022 colleagues in the Secure Solutions business.
Source: IMF October 2018 Technology-enabled security Technology and innovation Whilst labour costs have increased or are increasing, Labour particularly in developed markets, the cost of sophisticated 2.8BN TECHNOLOGY-ENABLED security technology is reducing.
Combined with the SECURITY REVENUE additional data and assurance that comes with technology, these trends are reshaping the security industry.
Advances Technology We continue to invest in technology to meet the in technology, such as drones, cloud and artificial growing demand for integrated solutions and to intelligence, are influencing the development of solutions drivethe development of innovative new solutions by G4S to deliver services.
Customer service Industry consolidation In certain security markets we have seen some market consolidation and trends whereby large competitors 6.8% 49,000 CUSTOMER SURVEYS aim to provide multi-service bundled and integrated Service excellence is one of our core values, an area solutions, sometimes to differentiate away from the more CAGR in integrated in which we continue to invest significantly and during commoditised manned security market.
Technologysecurity systems market 2018, our businesses received feedback from nearly enabled solutions is a less commoditised market than predicted between 2017 49,000 2017: 24,000 customer surveys using Net traditional manned security, with a lower number of and 2022 Promoter Score with positive results.
capable suppliers as it offers more bespoke solutions tocustomers.
10 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Cost P THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS SECURE SOLUTIONS OUR BUSINESS MODEL ANTICIPATING OUR CUSTOMERS' NEEDS We are investing in the resources, skills and capabilities needed to SOCIETY market, design, build, operate and maintain technology-enabled integrated security solutions.
G4S delivers a broad range of social andeconomic benefits to the This approach provides our customers with industry-leading services and communities in which we work, solutions that enable them to operate efficiently in an increasingly connected many ofwhich are helping to realise and complex world.
In turn it enables G4S to earn a higher margin on these the UnitedNations Sustainable valuable services.
CUSTOMERS 90 Risk Operate Serving customers in more than 90 Assessment Optimise countries across six continents.
SHAREHOLDERS G4S 56% CUSTOMER Conceptual At 85% of Group underlying revenues Build & Design and 77% of Adjusted PBITA, Secure Service Options Solutions has made a large contribution to the Group's 56% growth in underlying EPS since 2013.
Integrated Solution EMPLOYEES Design 514,000 Colleagues employed by G4S Secure Solutions businesses around the world.
SUPPLIERS G4S G4S TECHNOLOGY PEOPLE 26,500 Risk Consultants Technologists Engineers G4S Secure Solutions businesses source services and products from 26,500 suppliers around the world.
Security Officers Security Technology and Software Global Security Operations Centres Security and Data Analysts Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 11 A D R E T T N S E U R R S H T I P
