Strategic report Strategic priorities Delivering our strategy 1.
Drive a better borrower experience Link to KPIs: Improving the borrower Our strategy in action experience and increasing Weve consistently achieved strong customer satisfaction - Loans under management brand awareness support our and repeat business.
By focusing on price, access and - Originations efforts to expand our presence engagement, and by investing in technology and data - Marketing as a % of revenue analytics, we aim to improve convenience and efficiency in those areas where we - Revenue to enhance the overall experience of our borrowers.
- Segment adjusted EBITDA also plan to boost brand visibility through increased marketing activity.
Invest in data, tech and analytics Link to KPIs: Innovation is central to our Our strategy in action strategy.
By investing in data, Our approach involves optimising value and managing - Loans under management analytics and technology, credit risk across the entire spectrum of borrower - Originations engagement.
Our plan is to expand our data sets and wellcontinue to increase - Adjusted EBITDA invest in analytical tools to create more personalised automation, enhance our processes, improving price and access for borrowers.
creditmodels and improve Tothis end, were developing a unified money and loan thecustomer experience.
management platform for all our markets.
Diversify funding sources Link to KPIs: We focus on diversifying Our strategy in action ourfunding base, attracting Since Funding Circle launched, we have consistently - Loans under management long-term commitments from focused on diversifying funding sources.
We began - Originations offering fractional loans to retail investors.
In 2013, we investors and enhancing the - Revenue launched a whole loan programme focused on predictability and stability - Segment adjusted EBITDA institutional investors.
We continue to provide investors ofinvestments.
with new ways to access Funding Circle loans, including launching new fund and bond products.
Build a highly scalable global business Link to KPIs: Our main aim is to continue Our strategy in action growing as a leader in the We have a strong track record of identifying and grasping - Loans under management platform lending industry.
We expansion opportunities, as our growth rates inthe US, - Originations believe theres an opportunity Germany and the Netherlands testify.
Well continue to - Revenue explore market opportunities, either through organic to reach new markets and build - Loss before tax growth or acquisitions, basing our assessments on SME an even larger base ofSMEs - Segment adjusted EBITDA demand, investor sentiment, operational complexity and and investors.
- EPS - Free cash flow - Marketing as % of revenue 8 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Im very excited for everything wehave in Willie Powells store.
All the steps weve taken since partnering Willie D. Powells III worked tirelessly to build a client base withFunding Circle have for his Houston, Texas law practice over more than a decade, securing significant settlements along the way.
In recent years he had been looking for ways to grow the Law Offices of Willie D. Powells III and Associates, PLLC, morerapidly.
Willie Powells Founder of the Law Offices With a loan from Funding Circle, Willie plans to double or of Willie D. Powells III andAssociates, PLLC even triple the size of his client base with an investment in marketing, including TV commercials.
He also plans to beef up his office with additional personnel.
