Strategic report Our market Leading platform in underserved market SME market overview Our market Over the past decade, SMEs across SME lending market size The SME lending market is vast and underserved.
In the various industries have been able to four countries where we operate, the aggregate market streamline their processes, increase forSME debt financing is around 1.2 trillion of loans their productivity and reach new outstanding.
Takingour current participation and strategy into account, thetotal addressable market is estimated geographies thanks to innovation in at470 billion.
But when it comes to funding, traditional lenders have not kept pace with change.
SME lending is a massive global market Expansion beyond the existing four countries presents 1.2trn aneven bigger opportunity.
Current geographies totalSME debt 470bn Current geographies 1 addressable market US 220bn Germany 140bn UK 85bn Netherlands 20bn 3.1bn Funding Circle outstanding loans today 1.
F unding Circles estimated total addressable market excludes certain segments from the total SME debt finance market, including without limitation commercial mortgages and loans of more than 500,000, as well as loans having an interest rate of more than 25%.
12 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report online application, often resulting in a better experience for Our competitors borrower and investor alike.
The combination of borrower demand and investor supply enables online lending platforms The competitive landscape to compete with banks in SME lending and unlock loans that Thanks to recent developments and technological advances, remain unattractive to banks.
more organisations are providing dedicated products, services and support to small businesses.
The emergence of online lending platforms has been most prominent in the UK, the US and China, although the trend is Indeed, the rise of online lending platforms has been hugely developing globally.
Today, a wide variety of online lending beneficial.
Matching borrowers and investors directly, lending platforms offer a range of financing products, including platforms like Funding Circle have become an important unsecured and secured loans, short-term working capital loans, source of finance for SMEs.
asset-backed loans and property development loans.
Over the last ten years, governments have also introduced Specialist lenders initiatives to support SME lending and promote more choice Specialist lenders serve a smaller portion of the overall market.
and competition within the market.
Recent UK regulation, for They differentiate themselves by offering very short-term example, encourages the development of financial products loans at short notice, often to resolve liquidity issues.
Meanwhile the UK Government-owned British Business Bank and the European Investment Bank are There are a number of different types of specialist lenders, now investing in small business loans through platforms like who are either focused on specific segments by product, such ours, recognising the model as an efficient mechanism to as asset finance or invoice finance, or on specific segments stimulate the real economy.
by SME group, such as short-term financing at higher interestrates.
As a result of these changes, the competitive landscape in which we operate is now made up of: Captive networks Traditional banks In recent years, e-commerce platforms and payment processors have started providing lending products to Despite the transformation of the SME funding landscape theircaptive customer base.
These networks tend to since the global financial crisis, banks continue to be the servespecific industry segments of smaller SMEs with dominant players in terms of overall SME lending volume in short-term, lower-sized loans.
For example, SMEs are now each of our markets.
These markets have different concentration able to access working capital loans via Amazon, PayPal characteristics, with high concentration in the UK and the orSquare, with repayments often deducted from the sales Netherlands, and high fragmentation in the US and Germany.
The outcome for SMEs has been the same, with limited innovation in SME lending.
Captive network lenders benefit from being able to see a substantial portion of their borrowers financial and transactional Lending platforms activities.
But as they focus mainly on lending products to Online lending platforms provide an alternative source of SMEs which use their services, their borrower base remains funding for SMEs.
Emerging around the world, they offer fast relatively small.
and flexible financing at competitive prices through a simple Four major groups of competitors in SME space Borrower proposition: Traditional Lending Specialist Captive banks platforms lenders networks Awareness 25 100 25 50 Speed and convenience 100 25 75 100 100 Access to finance 75 50 50 75 25 For high credit risk Network only Low interest rate 100 100 50 50 50 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report 14 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report GET UP ANDGROW Ambic Ltd Ambic is a long-established UK manufacturer focused on making andfitting educational furniture, laboratory furniture and fire doors.
They supply schools, universities and offices in the North East of England and pride themselves on the quality oftheir furniture: and the experience their staff bring to the field.
To help replenish working capital during busy back to school periods, Ambic has accessed 160,000 through Funding Circle across two loans since 2013.
Amount borrowed by Ambic Ltd 160,000 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
