"Corporate governance Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2018 The Directors present their report the ""Directors Report and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31December 2018."
During the year the Company changed its name from Funding Circle Holdings Limited to Funding Circle Holdings plc.
Information required to be part of the Directors Report either by statute or by Listing Rule 9.8 can be found either in this section or elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below.
All information located elsewhere in this document is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Section of Annual Report Page reference Information required by LR9.8 Statement of corporate governance Corporate Governance Statement page 46 Going concern Risk Management page 45 Directors interests Remuneration Report page 75 Long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report pages 68 to 70 Powers for the Company to buy back its shares Directors Report page 81 Allotment of shares during the year Note 18 to the financial statements Significant shareholders Directors Report page 82 Related party agreements Note 26 to the financial statements Statutory information Employee involvement Strategic Report our people page 27 Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons Strategic Report our people page 27 Financial instruments Note 2 to the financial statements Future developments of the business Strategic Report pages 5 to 23 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic Report corporate social responsibility page 29 Significant agreements Directors' Report page 82 Non-financial reporting Strategic Report see below Management Report This Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45, forms the Management Report for the purposes ofDTR4.1.
Strategic Report Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Directors to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report andAccounts.
The information can be found on pages 1 to 45.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Act and as noted in this Directors Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors Report.
Section 414C of the Act requires the Company to include within its Strategic Report a non-financial statement setting out such information as is required by Section 414CB of the Act.
Such information is set out in the our people section on pages 24 to 27, the corporate social responsibility section on pages 28 and 29, in the Business Model and Risk Profile sections on pages 10 to 23 and in the Risk Management and Going Concern and Viability Statement sections on pages 36 to 45.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and for the period up to the date of this report were: Andrew Learoyd Chair Samir Desai CBE co-founder, Chief Executive Officer Sean Glithero Chief Financial Officer Eric Daniels Independent Non-Executive Director Geeta Gopalan appointed 1 November 2018 Independent Non-Executive Director Cath Keers appointed 10 May 2018 Independent Non-Executive Director Bob Steel Senior Independent Director Ed Wray Independent Non-Executive Director Hendrik Nelis Non-Executive Director Neil Rimer Non-Executive Director 80 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Insurance and indemnities Share capital The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
In addition of 0.001, each of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
the Company indemnifies each Director under a qualifying The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2018 indemnity for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies comprises 346,033,078 ordinary shares of 0.001 each.
Further Act 2006 pursuant to a separate deed of indemnity.
Such information regarding the Companys issued share capital can indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the be found on page 118 of the financial statements.
Director liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Details of the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Companys Articles.
Trust are disclosed in note 18 to the financial statements.
Directors interests Rights attaching to shares The number of ordinary shares in which the Directors were All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend beneficially interested as at 31 December 2018 are set out rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set inthe Directors Remuneration Report on page 75. out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have Director has notified the Company of any situation in which no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys heor she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that shares are not redeemable.
However, following any grant of conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase or Company a situational conflict.
These were considered and contract to purchase any of the shares on or off market, approved by the Board in accordance with the Articles and subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements each Director was informed of the authorisation and any ofthe Listing Rules.
terms on which it was given.
The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
Voting rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend None of the Directors has a material interest in any significant and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, contract with the Company or any member of its Group.
every member present in person shall have one vote and on apoll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have Results and dividends one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Groups and the Companys audited financial statements Noshareholder holds ordinary shares carrying special rights forthe year are set out on pages 90 to 140.
On admission, the relating to the control of the Company and the Directors are not Company paid an accrued dividend of 523,755.54 in cash to aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys the holders of Series A preferred shares in accordance with shares that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Shares the Articles of Association in place prior to the IPO.
held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust rank pari passu The Directors do not recommend payment of a final dividend with the shares in issue and have no special rights, but voting for 2018 2017: nil.
rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares rest with the plans Trustees and are not exercisable Appointment and replacement of Directors byemployees.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors are set out in the Company's Articles of Association and are governed by the 2016 Code, the Companies Act 2006 The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer and related legislation.
At the AGM, all Directors will offer ofordinary shares in the Company other than the usual themselves for re-election to the Company's Board.
restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
All issued share capital of the Company at the date of this report Amendment of the Articles is fully paid.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by relating to closed periods and requirements of the Listing Rules a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
For a period of one year following the IPO each of the Directors Authority to allot or purchase the Companys shares and certain of their immediate family members and the The Articles permit the Directors to issue or approve the members of the Global Leadership Team agreed not to dispose purchase by the Company of its own shares, subject to of any of the ordinary shares they hold in the Company.
The authority to issue Thislock up period expires at the close of business on or buy back shares will expire at the 2019 AGM, and it will be 3October 2019. proposed at the meeting that the Directors be granted new For a period of 180 days following the IPO, all other shareholders authorities to issue and buy back shares.
The Directors holding 0.25% of the Company immediately prior to the IPO currently have authority to approve the Company's purchase agreed not to dispose of any of the ordinary shares they hold of up to 34,505,000 of the Companys ordinary shares.
This lock up period expires at the close of However, the Company did not repurchase any of its business on 1 April 2019. ordinaryshares during the year.
The above lock up arrangements are subject to certain customary exceptions.
81 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report of the Directors continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 Change of control Save in respect of certain awards made to members of the Global Leadership Team and the Executive Directors under the Companys pre-IPO share plans as further described on page 120 and a provision of the Companys current long-term incentive plan which may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on takeover and as further described on page 71 of this report, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
The Group is party to a limited number of funding agreements that include change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, could result in the termination of those arrangements, generally resulting in the discontinuation of further loan origination and termination of servicing by the Group under the affected arrangement.
Significant shareholdings As at 31 December 2018 and 28 February 2019, the Company has been notified pursuant to DTR5, or is otherwise aware, of the following significant interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Percentage Percentage Number of issued Number of issued ordinary shares share capital ordinary shares share capital as at as at as at as at 31 December 31 December 28 February 28 February Nature of Name of Shareholder 2018 2018 2019 2019 holding Index Ventures 58,618,351 16.94 58,618,351 16.94 Direct Aktieselskabet af 2.7.
This does not include shares held by Samir Desais father which were included in his stated shareholding for the purposes of the Companys prospectus in September 2018.
This does not include shares held by James Meekings father which were included in his stated shareholding for the purposes of the Companys prospectus in September 2018.
No disclosures have been made to the Company pursuant to DTR5 in the period between 28 February 2019 and 6 March 2019 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Report.
Research and development - so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant auditinformation of which the Companys auditors are The Group invests in the research and development of unique unaware: and technology and software products that enable the Group to achieve its key performance objective of growing lending to - the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have small businesses internationally whilst delivering attractive taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware risk-adjusted returns to investors.
ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Political donations This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in There were no political donations made during the year or the accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies previous year.
External branches 2019 Annual General Meeting The Company has subsidiaries in the United States of America, The Companys AGM will take place on 5 June 2019 at Germany, Spain and the Netherlands but the Group had no 65FleetStreet, London, EC4Y 1HS.
The Chairman, and the registered external branches during the reporting period or Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk and Compliance prior year.
Committees, will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
Electronic proxy voting will be available to Independent auditors shareholders through both our Registrars website and the  LLP the auditors have confirmed CREST service.
For shareholders who have not registered their willingness to continue as independent auditors and will forelectronic communications, the website for voting is retain appointment in accordance with Section 487 of the www.
Voting at the AGM will be conducted Companies Act 2006. byway of a poll.
The results will be posted on the Companys corporate website www.
com after Statement of disclosure of information to auditors themeeting and notified to the UK Listing Authority.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval ofthis report confirms that: 82 Funding Circle Holdings plc
