1 e % e f a n n n o i u t a c l a s s Strategic report Our business model How our business operates Business loan Investors Amazing borrower Thanks to our online lending experience platform, a wide range of investors are now able to invest in SME loans.
The platform enables both large and small investors to make incremental investments, and our investor base is deep, diverse and stable Sophisticated Cutting-edge ranging from retail investors to data analytics technology public bodies.
Platform Since 2016, 40% of funding throughour platform has come from global investors.
Superior investor returns Monthly payments 10 Funding Circle Holdings plc e n r a v r i t c i % n g 7 f e 1 e Strategic report Our platform At Funding Circle, our aim is to help SMEs grow by providing them with streamlined access to capital.
Tosupport this, weve developed a highly efficient and effective platform that enables SMEs to borrow money directly from investors.
The platform uses cutting-edge technology, proprietary credit models and sophisticated data analytics, creating a uniquely attractive and convenient proposition for borrowers and investors alike.
It also provides high repeat rates, helping us togrow alongside our customers.
Through our platform, were able to serve and build long-term relationships with borrowers, providing them with the fast and flexible financing they need.
For investors, the platform opens upan alternative asset class with attractive risk-adjusted returns.
Borrowers At Funding Circle, we focus exclusively on SME lending.
How we generate revenue Ourborrower base is highly diversified across geographies We generate revenue in two primary ways: and industries, which helps i A transaction fee typically ranging between 1% and 7% of toensure stable returns and the original principal balance of the loan, which is deducted mitigate the effects of adverse from the loan proceeds paid to the borrower.
ii A n ongoing servicing fee of 1% per annum, calculated As of 31 December 2018, monthly on each loan in most instances as a percentage borrowers across our oftheoutstanding principal balance of a performing loan.
geographies had on average around 950,000 ofrevenue, eight employees, a ten-year trading history and an average loan size of70,000.
The virtuous circle We believe that the nature and scale of our business model creates a virtuous circle that will continue to enhance our competitive position and market share around the world.
The speed, price, access and convenience of our offer are highly attractive to SMEs.
As more SMEs come on board, were able to accumulate more data and improve the precision of our risk models, leading to higher acceptance rates and lower pricing for borrowers.
For investors, our platform presents an opportunity to quickly invest in a highly diversified loan portfolio, and to invest large sums of capital should they wish to do so.
We also have a strong track record of delivering stable returns.
As more investors join the platform, the more valuable the platform becomes for the investment community.
This then furtherenhances borrowers abilities to find loans quickly andefficiently.
In 2018, 74% of lending came from existing investors.
Read more about our borrower proposition on page 16 Read more about our investor proposition on page 20 Read more about the virtuous circle on page 22 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
