G4S OVERVIEW INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR A CONNECTED WORLD Who we are What we do Our values G4S is the worlds leading global, integrated G4S plays a valuable and important role Our people and values underpin everything security company.
We offer a broad range in society.
As a major global employer we do.
of security services delivered on a single, we make a difference by helping people multi-service or integrated basis across to live and work in safe and secure six continents.
We have been investing environments.
G4S takes a fully integrated in technology, software and systems.
approach to its strategy and Corporate The Groups technology-related security Social Responsibility CSR.
See page 36 for revenues were 2.8 billion in 2018 more information on our CSR approach 2017: 2.45 billion.
Countries of operation using G4S technology Other countries of operation OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT With 546,000 people, G4S is one of the worlds largest private sector employers.
Our employees touch the lives of others every 90 day, providing crucial services to keep them safe and secure.
Our success is underpinned by the COUNTRIES waywelead and engage with our people.
Revenues from manned security contracts enhanced through G4S software, hardware and security systems.
6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 OUR BUSINESS SECURE SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS 85% 15% 78% SECURITY SOLUTIONS incorporating risk consulting, CASH TECHNOLOGY services comprising of: on-site, mobile and remote security, technology-enabled Cash technology focused on the efficient management of cash monitoring and response, software and systems and integrated including Retail Cash Solutions, the leading software and service security solutions combining some or all of these services solution for large retail formats in North America.
Deposita, Cash360 and G4S Pay solutions for medium and small 7% CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES including custody detention, retail formats.
G4S operates an integrated security business in more than CONVENTIONAL CASH services - cash in transit CIT, cash 90 countries across the globe.
The global security market has processing and automated teller machine ATM services.
structural growth qualities see page 10 for a description of the growth drivers and is highly fragmented: there are few G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small number of large, global international suppliers and our competitors are typically smaller cash businesses and is the market leader or number two local and regional companies.
Each market is highly regulated, often by central banks, and the business requires significant The security industry is seeing growing demand for  and expertise.
G4S competes with local, national enabled and integrated security solutions which combine and a small number of international competitors.
Cash volumes people and technology to deliver cost-effective security.
in most developed markets are flat or gradually declining at an Wehave the market positions, products and services to aggregate market level and are growing in emerging markets.
At the end of 2018, G4S announced that the board was The Group's Care & Justice services businesses are concentrated looking at separation options for the cash businesses from the in the UK and Australia where we have built significant rest of the Group see page 2. knowledge and expertise.
Cash Solutions strategy: Secure Solutions strategy: Safe and secure operations for our people and valuables To create more secure and efficient security solutions in our cash businesses in 44 countries forcustomers: Continuously improve the efficiency of our conventional We aim to differentiate our services by emphasising cash business network of vehicles, vaults and cash ourglobal expertise as an integrated security provider centres serving banks and retailers to encourage them across more than 90 countries, in sixcontinents to outsource more of their cash management activities aroundthe world and grow our market share Through continuous improvement we aim to operate Drive growth through the expansion of our Cash efficient and effective businesses with a positive Technology activities which offer tremendous value to cultureand embedded values underpinned by a all retail and banking partners through lower costs and strongsafety culture increased ease in handling cash.
These services have low penetration and strong growth potential in both existing % of Group underlying revenues.
markets such as the United States and new markets Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 7
