OUR STRATEGY Our strategy addresses the long-term positive demand for STRATEGIC AND security and related services and our enduring strategic aim is to demonstrate the values PERFORMANCE and performance that makes G4S the company of choice for customers employees and OVERVIEW shareholders.
This section summarises our strategic priorities and how we focus our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the best results for customers and sustainable growth and return for investors.
Our CSR approach covers a PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMER FOCUS AND SERVICE broad range of areas but we EXCELLENCE have three material priorities: health and safety, human rights We recruit, develop and deploy the best We build long-term customer and anti-bribery and corruption people in the industry relationships based upon trust and which are covered in detail on understanding of customers businesses page 36. and objectives Strategic priorities Embed the right culture: promote our Positive demand for security services G4S values and sustain strong employee driving revenue growth of 4-6% p. a. in Underpinned by corporate culture identification with those values the medium term based on Group Values and Embed health and safety behaviours Investment in risk consulting expertise commitment to corporate social to lead initial customer engagement Talent acquisition, development and responsibility.
anddevelop excellent service and succession planning solution design Engage to ensure best performance Investment in technical and project Incentivise and recognise success management capability Investment in sales, marketing, account management teams, SalesForce CRM, embed G4S way of selling and contract retention programmes Key risks Our trained and skilled people are hired Failure to understand customers by competitors or other companies or changing needs or falling short of do not behave in line with the Groups customer expectations See Principal risks values, resulting in adverse impact on pages 64 to 71. customer service or those in our care Negative impacts on our employees health and safety KPI 67% 1.4bn See page 34 for more detail and the Reduction in road traffic fatalities Annual contract value of new business won progress in the Groups financial and non-financial KPIs and how they link since2013 in 2018 2017: 1.4bn to the Groups strategic priorities.
COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL 18 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL INNOVATION AND COST LEADERSHIP DISCIPLINE We design, market and deliver innovative, We have safe, secure, reliable and We manage risk effectively and industry-leading technology and services efficientoperations ensure we provide profitable, cash that protect and add value for our generativeservices customers wherever they operate We continue to invest in the resources, Deliver 70-80m annual operational Improved risk management, including skills and capabilities to develop and cost savings programme by 2020 contract risk management deliver technology-enabled security and Operational excellence and efficiency: Established and embedded rigorous cash management solutions: implement lean, automated processes capital investment appraisal processes Secure Solutions expand and upgrade Continue to improve health & safety Portfolio programme  capability awareness and performance Driving improved cash flow Cash Solutions leading bank and retail Capital allocation cash technology Failure to market or deliver our services Failure to comply with our standards Inefficient capital management and and technology effectively or failure to results in harm, loss of expertise or failureto comply with Group risk deliver adequate value for money investment fails to deliver benefit management standards 45% 30bp 20m Of security revenues were Improvement in Secure Solutions Adjusted Reduction in annual finance costs through technology enabled in 2018 2017: 42% PBITA margin in 2018 compared with refinancing achieved 2017 RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPINS THE STRATEGY Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 19 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED PEOPLE AND VALUES With 546,000 colleagues, G4S is one of the worlds largest private sector Acquire attracting and recruiting the best people employers.
Our employees and services With a tightening labour market in some countries touch the lives of others every day, we face cyclical challenges attracting and retaining providing crucial services to keep them employees who may have other employment options.
Our success is therefore Whilst the interesting and varied nature of the work underpinned by the way we attract, we offer enables us to retain our core employee develop and engage with our people, as base 73% of our employees have more than a years well as the culture and values that shape service, we have also streamlined our recruitment processes to speed up the time taken to process new the way we work and how our colleagues employee applications.
A strong brand and reputation carry out their roles.
as a fair employer also differentiate us in a competitive market place.
Over a number of years we have focused on improving retention which has meant our labour turnover continues to reduce, even in tight Organise creating the right organisation labour markets such as in parts of Europe, where our andculture turnover rates are now below 20%.
Overall we saw a further reduction in labour turnover for the Group at Our values are core to shaping the culture of our 24.7%, down from 25.3% in 2017. organisation, helping to guide, unite, differentiate and sustain us.
They are integral to everything we do.
In 2017 we launched scenario-based values training materials for our front-line employees including flashcards, presentations and online training modules.
Protect putting safety first CSR priority area Together with online management training launched in 2018, these materials are now being widely used The safety of our employees and those in our care and form part of our employees experience from is our first priority.
This focus recruitment and induction, through to training and enables us to secure our customers worlds and appraisal.
We are continuing to update our induction the communities we serve.
It is our responsibility and training materials and to find innovative ways to ensure that our colleagues return home from to share and embed them so that, regardless of work safely every day and we believe that setting where they work and what they do, our employees the highest standards for health and safety across understand the behaviours that are expected of them our industry builds loyalty and commitment to G4S in line with ourvalues.
PERFORMANCE THROUGH PEOPLE Globally we align our HR strategy to six key work streams which focus on the activities integral to driving sustainable business performance: Protect Develop Do we put the Do our safety of our employees have employees and the capability those in our care to deliver?
Acquire Engage Do we have Are our employees the right people committed to doing a in the right places?
Organise Reward PERFORMANCE Are we organised THROUGH Do our incentives as efficiently and support sustainable effectively as PEOPLE performance?
20 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 OUR VALUES IN ACTION - INVISIBLE WALLS WALES G4S CUSTODIAL & DETENTION: UK An innovative programme developed by G4S and Barnardos Cymru aims to reduce the number of prisoners reoffending, cut the risk of intergenerational offending and improve the quality of life and community inclusion for families.
Recognising that connections to family are an important element in the successful rehabilitation of offenders, the programme, initially developed and implemented at HM Prison Parc in South Wales, works with the families of prisoners who are experiencing difficulties.
Each prisoner taking part in the programme is allocated a mentor, who also works together with the prisoners family, children, partners and parents, to help sustain and rebuild connections.
The family will receive tailored support for up to a year prior to the prisoners release, and then for another six months following release.
During its first five years, Invisible Walls Wales has helped to: 1.
Reduce unemployment rates for prisoners from 80% to 25% and for their family members reduced unemployment rates from 69% to 46%.
Increase prisoners engagement in education, training, or volunteering from 0% to 10% and for their family members, from 2% to 14%.
Decrease the number of prisoners children experiencing attainment or attendance issues at school from 43% to 12%.
Halve the number of prisoners children considered by social services to be at risk, from 16% to 7%.
Reduce the number of prisoners that were misusing alcohol and or drugs from 89% to 20%, and for their family members reduce the number from 15% to 5%.
The success of the programme has led to the model being replicated in other prisons across the UK and overseas.
Further information is available at g4s.
com invisiblewalls SDGs: Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 21 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Having put the necessary processes in place over recent years, we have now seen a very significant reduction in the number of serious incidents.
Develop building a capable workforce Compliance is monitored through audits and reviews As the skills we need in our global business constantly of risk and performance at regional, group and board change in anticipation of market dynamics and new level, via the CSR committee, and further details of technology, ensuring we have capable and confident these assurance processes can be found on page 67. people is vital.
In 2018, we extended the scope During 2018, 24 of our colleagues sadly lost their lives of our talent review process, enabling us to reach in work related accidents, including five colleagues further into the organisation and identify employees who died in a terror attack in Afghanistan.
This with thepotential to become future leaders earlier in loss is not acceptable and our thoughts are with theircareers.
This is nevertheless a reduction from 25 fatalities in 2017 and solidifies the step change Our leadership programme continues to offer global development for high potential employees and this we saw that year when the number of fatalities halved compared with our longer-term experience.
year the number of employees participating in the programme doubled.
In 2019, we plan to undertake a Wecontinue to make progress in road safety and road traffic fatalities have decreased by 67% since review of the programme and benchmark it externally to ensure it remains cutting edge and focused on our 2013 when we first launched the improvement programme.
Whilst developing high performers will always be a Mitigating the levels of violence associated with business imperative, we want to offer all employees attacks on our Cash Solutions business remains the opportunity to increase their skills and knowledge a significant priority.
Initiatives taken by G4S and at work.
We encourage employees to take other operators in South Africa, working with law responsibility for their own learning on an on-going enforcement agencies, began to have a positive basis using the extensive range of materials available, impact in the second half of 2018 and this remains a and using technology platforms to share training and priority for 2019. learning paths more effectively.
For example, during a We continue to reduce our injury rate.
During 2018 16 week on-line development programme concluded the Group Lost Time Injury incidence rate was 6.6 in 2018, over 41,000 employees completed learning per 1,000 employees, compared with a rate of 6.7 modules with very positive feedback.
The change is due to improvements in the line operational staff, continued development is no Care& Justice Services business, partially offset by the less important, and our use of on-line training is being numberof injuries sustained during attacks in Global extended where possible as it enables businesses to Cash Solutions.
reach wider audiences efficiently and give employees access to learning at times to suit them.
There were nine non-natural deaths in G4S custody in 2018.
All deaths in custody are investigated by the Each year, we also introduce specific learning relevant authorities to determine the cause of death.
materials to support business needs or to meet new Five of these deaths in 2018 were due to self harm, customer and legislative requirements.
This year three were related to substance abuse and one was was no exception with further health and safety a homicide.
The relevant coroner pronounced that training produced in pursuit of our goal of zero harm a death that occurred in 2017 and was previously and an array of materials developed to support disclosed as non-natural, was actually due to the introduction of the General Data Protection naturalcauses.
Regulations GDPR, ensuring everyone understands their role and responsibilities in safeguarding data.
Employees by region 2018 Employee gender diversity in 2018 % 100 70 83 85 80 60 40 30 20 Secure Solutions 17 15 Africa 21% 0 Americas 21% Female Asia 32% Male Europe 20% Cash Solutions Cash Solutions 6% 22 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Board Senior management Total employees OUR VALUES IN ACTION - SECURING HEALTHCARE IN FRAGILE STATES G4S RISK MANAGEMENT: AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ, SIERRA LEONE, SOUTH SUDAN Delivering medical care in fragile and conflict affected states is complex and fraught with challenges.
G4S provides integrated security solutions and wider support functions to healthcare services in challenging environments such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Sierra Leone and South Sudan.
In 2018, G4S carried out security risk assessments of the French Medical Institution for Mothers and Children, a non profit hospital in Kabul providing medical care and working towards improvements in health services in Afghanistan.
Despite its aims, the hospital attracts a high threat profile due to its connections to the Afghan government, western NGOs and focus on the empowerment of women.
G4S made a number of recommendations to enhance security at the hospital, without greatly hindering access for staff, patients and visitors, and a programme of increased resilience is currently being implemented.
During the Ebola Crisis, G4S supported the UK Department for International Development by managing and maintaining their vehicle fleet in Sierra Leone an essential service that ensured that their aid and healthcare workers could reach affected communities.
To help us ensure the ongoing sustainability of the programme, we implemented accredited training and mentoring for our locally employed staff.
Alongside our security operations at Baghdad International airport, G4S has a medical clinic that provides a 24 7 medical service to G4S staff and international clients.
The clinic offers emergency and primary care services, complemented by diagnostic care.
Paramedics are available to provide many types of treatment, from simple procedures to dealing with more serious conditions or to stabilise a critically ill or injured person before an evacuation.
SDGs: Engage creating an inclusive and Our plans for 2019 will be shaped by the research findings.
In the meantime, we have developed engaging workplace recruitment case studies to showcase the diverse With scope to access the perspectives and career opportunities and to challenge the experience of employees in over 90 countries we stereotypical views of the industry.
We have also rarely struggle for ideas.
Diversity of thinking helps us aligned our recruitment suppliers with our aims by innovate and stay ahead in the marketplace, creating ensuring they are reaching out to more diverse talent long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Ensuring pools and providing shortlists of diverse candidates.
everyone can contribute to their full potential is therefore a key area of focus.
In line with our diversity Giving all employees the opportunity to comment on and inclusion strategy and commitments in the UK what they think and feel about working for G4S is a gender pay gap report visit g4s.
com genderpaygap, cornerstone of our engagement strategy.
We seek we have been conducting employee research into feedback from representative channels such as unions barriers, both perceived and real, that impact our and works councils at a local, regional and global level, ability to developa more diverse workforce and a giving updates on business performance and in return more inclusive workplace.
receiving information on the issues that are affecting our employees on a day to day basis.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 23 23 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED We also invest significant time and energy in In cases where colleagues are suspected of not 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS conducting a global employee survey.
In the last upholding those standards, we undertake swift, survey, conducted in 2017, 428,000 employees thorough and impartial investigations and take responded.
Their feedback was resoundingly positive appropriate action.
Where unacceptable behaviour with over 84% of participants rating the company has taken place we learn from such instances and 428,000 favourably.
Throughout 2018, the focus has been on enhance our safeguards to prevent similar issues Colleagues participated understanding the issues where the responses were arising in the future.
in our survey in 2017 less favourable and implementing actions arising from We have invested time, effort and resource to with over 84% favourable survey feedback.
In 2019, we will issue our next global promote the use of Speak Out, our anonymous responses.
In 2018, we survey, refreshing the approach and the questions we whistleblowing system available to employees globally.
identified any issues and ask to align with the relevant issues in the business.
During 2018, 519 cases were raised by colleagues developed action plans We will also take the opportunity at our leadership via Speak Out.
Our efforts during 2017 and 2018 conference and through our senior management to create a culture in which people feel confident survey to seek feedback about the issues that matter to speak out and raise ethical concerns using our most to them such as strategy, culture and incentives.
whistleblowing channels has resulted in a 73% increase in the number of reports made via Speak Out during 2018.
Reward incentivising and recognising success The majority of matters raised via Speak Out are Recognition and praise is vital in an industry where HR grievances which are managed by the relevant employees go to extraordinary lengths to deliver, HR department where they remain best placed sometimes in challenging and hostile environments.
to investigate and resolve these matters promptly.
Businesses have developed separate approaches to Where appropriate, concerns regarding operational recognition awards and they all link to our values and procedures are investigated by local management to the behaviours which underpin them.
Acrossour ensure that relevant standards are being followed.
senior management team, we offer bonus plans Internal Audit and other assurance functions may also which incentivise high performance while upholding assess operational compliance.
For many operational employees we Investigations relating to other matters, such as alleged negotiate terms and conditions with trade unions bribery, ethical or financial issues are conducted operating across the industry, which helps ensure our by our internal network of investigators or by pay is competitive with market rates.
We seek out independent experts.
a wide range of benefits which offer good value for our employees, and where possible, support for their Matters of a potentially serious nature are investigated families too.
at a senior and independent level, with 105 investigations completed during 2018.
The Group Ethics Steering Committee has continued to oversee implementation of our whistleblowing policy and conducts regular reviews of serious cases, Anti-Bribery & Corruption CSR priority area investigation progress and resulting actions.
By having clear values and standards, and educating and training colleagues to uphold them, we are creating a positive culture which means our colleagues can be trusted to do the right thing and behave in a way which meets our standards.
IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT WRONGDOING do the right thing and speak out!
com 65 0 IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT !
SPEAK OUT is for reporting serious 14 15 16 17 18 You are encouraged to report any serious wrongdoing.
Any other concerns such issues without fear of retaliation.
All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general raised in good faith will be taken seriously and employment grievances should be directed Speak Out launched treated with respect.
to your line manager, or HR for a quick resolution.
Securing Your World 24 24 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 2018 Actions Engage Status Launch management values training materials, embed front-line materials and complete update of HR policies and processes to reflect G4S values Implement action plans from global employee engagement survey and address actions from management survey Review opportunities to improve gender balance Develop Status Continue the delivery of regional leadership programmes and promote development paths and learning opportunities for employees at different levels Protect - CSR Priority Area Status Continue to implement the revised front-line health and safety induction training Introduce updated controls for security officers working at entrance gates Share and adopt best practice across the Group in managing critical health and safety risk areas Develop action plans for businesses which have had multiple fatalities, as well as monitoring their implementation Anti-Bribery & Corruption - CSR priority area Status Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and create an environment in which colleagues are confident they may raise concerns confidentially and without fear of retribution Status complete on-going 2019 ACTIONS AND PLANS Engage Conduct sixth global employee engagement survey using the previous response rates and favourable scores as a benchmark Implement actions arising from the employee research conducted on diversity andinclusion Develop Review and refresh the regional leadership programme and extend the offering of development materials to a wider internal audience Protect - CSR priority area Improve health, safety and security risk assessments processes Conduct a thematic review of High Potential Incidents in high priority businesses Improve controls related to attacks on employees Introduce additional training on road safety Anti-Bribery & Corruption - CSR priority area Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and increase the confidence of employees to raise concerns through available channels Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 25 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE In 2018, following great success in Europe and North 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS We build long-term customer America we implemented a global sales coaching relationships based upon trust and programme training more than 100 managers across understanding of our customers 57 business units.
Through 1.4bn thosecustomer relationships and In addition we launched new online learning plans Annual contract value connections we look to deliver geared to reinforming our solution sales methodology of new business won sustainable long-term growth in and have enrolled over 500 sales people into the programme to date.
revenues, earnings and cash flow.
Detailed manuals and crib cards help sales people with the following: 2.4bn Positive demand for security services Understanding the different G4S sales processes We believe that the long-term demand trends for Total contract value and when to apply them.
of new business won our services remain positive, and we expect to grow revenues on average by around 4% to 6% Applying elements of social media and other per annum over the medium term.
We continue enabling technologies in selling.
to sustain contract retention rates of around 90%, Using modern approaches to planning and have won substantial new business, and have more demandcreation.
100 than replenished our sales pipeline with an improved Demonstrating techniques for conducting Managers across 57 quality of opportunities over the next two years.
business units completed a global sales coaching Describing how to position differentiation Large diversified customer base and sales pipeline programme and value to customers and how to address One of the strengths of the Group is the diversified competitive selling situations.
nature of our contracts and sales pipeline by service, Techniques for gaining access to decision makers geography and customer.
We have a diverse customer base spread across many countries and and methods for controlling sales cycles and mitigating buyer risk.
At the end of December 2018, wehad won new business with an annual contract Net promoter score and contract retention value of 1.4 billion 2017: 1.4 billion and total contract value of 2.4 billion 2017: 2.4 billion.
Since 2016, we have embarked on a Group-wide Net Promoter Score NPS survey process with Our sales pipeline has grown despite an increased existing customers.
In 2018, using a variety of survey emphasis on pipeline qualification, ensuring we focus tools, wedoubled the number of surveys conducted, on the best opportunities and improve our contract compared to 2017, with almost 49,000 surveys win rate.
As the Group has invested in innovative performed, including our top 20 customers in most products and services, we also see an improvement countries.
Allmarkets show positive NPS results in the quality of the sales pipeline with more with significant year on year improvements in North technology-related, longer-term, higher-value-added America, Asia and Europe.
We aim to maintain an appropriate sales pipeline to fulfil our growth opportunities.
Investment in sales leadership and account management Since 2013, we have invested in sales leadership, sales and service training, customer relationships, account management and a unified sales management and CRM system.
Our understanding of customer requirements has increasingly resulted in opportunities to sell more technology-enabled solutions.
This is ACTIONS FOR 2019 particularly the case in developed markets, where Improve contract win rate higher wages and lower hardware costs have made Continue to implement the sales coaching technology solutions more cost-effective - see the initiative RISK360 case study opposite.
Improve contract retention We have also invested in capturing global customer opportunities, which has delivered success by winning Improve net promoter scores new work or new customers.
26 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Saving customers money, whilst delivering automated workflows we escalate and SAVING CUSTOMERS modern security better than ever before.
communicate professionally and can deploy tactical intervention teams and emergency G4S developed RISK360, bringing security MONEY, WHILST services.
It combines various The system equips management with security resources to provide customers with DELIVERING MODERN an integrated solution and by doing this we real time dashboards and management reports.
Operational KPIs such as proof of become risk management partners to our SECURITY customers, addressing their enterprise wide presence, security officer patrol monitoring and occurrence reporting are automated, risk management.
RISK360 resulting in more accurate reporting and Our risk experts use this tool to better data collection.
Our analyst uses the system understand and map the customers risk to enhance insight into threats facing the environment.
Our solutions architects SDGs: customers business.
It gives us hot-spot lead multi-skilled teams to design bespoke, trending and early warning which frees up integrated solutions, and manage the resources and helps to protect lives.
implementation and operation of these solutions.
The customer uses RISK360 to have peace of mind that their risk solution is working.
RISK360 enables us to have centralised Using the system, the customer can measure command and control over multiple its effectiveness, and shape their solution to operations in our Global Security Operations fit an ever changing landscape.
From the GSOC we enterprise wide risk through bespoke can perform remote site supervision and integrated solutions, means we save our vehicle surveillance and, by integrating customers money, whilst delivering modern standard operating procedures into the security, better than ever before.
Through Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 27 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Secure Solutions Integrated Security 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS G4S is a leader in integrated security, connecting manpower and technology, G4S is a security systems integration company.
Pleasesee page 6 for the map of countries where we systems and software.
Through our have technology capability.
Our businesses with the customer relationships and insight, we 2.8bn most embedded integrated security approach are in have increased focus on investing in North America, UK and Denmark.
We believe we Technology-enabled the development and marketing of new can deepen penetration of technology with existing security revenues technology and services to strengthen customers and new customers in these markets and our service offering, to support growth are looking to build expertise more widely across and to improve margins over time.
23,300 Investing in world leading proprietary products Customer locations where andservices cash technology deployed In our Secure Solutions segment, we continue for banks and retailers at Ensuring we are well positioned for more to invest in product and service innovation the end of 2018. technology solutions with disciplined capital combined with sales and operational support in the followingareas: allocation Increasingly our bespoke offering for customers Software tools including evidence based risk includes technology in the form of systems and assessment, incident management and travel 14% software.
For some customers, we own the advisory systems such as RISK360.
Increase in proportion equipment in their facilities but for others, usually Proprietary security systems such as Symmetry of technology-enabled larger customers, we tend to sell the required Connect access control systems and visitor security revenues equipment to the customer, underpinned by longmanagement systems.
term management and maintenance contracts.
A number of our services and technology solutions, Cash Solutions Retail Solutions and bank-branch which have commercial momentum in key markets, automation are featured in this report.
For our financial and retail customers, we have developed a number of innovative and efficientservices.
Automated cash solutions for retailers we have Revenue by customer type in 2018 % over 23,300 2017: 19,800 cash technology installations, often combined with our software andmanaged service and have a strong and growing pipeline.
This bespoke solution covers smart safes and cash recyclers, including our own Deposita equipment in emerging markets through to full cash management automation solutions for some of the worlds largest retailers see case study opposite.
Automated bulk-teller solution for banks the Deposita solution of hardware, proprietary software and managed service is also being used inbank branches.
Major corporates & industrials 35% Government 21% Financial institutions 16% Retail 9% Private energy utilities 6% Consumers 6% Ports & airports 3% Transport & logistics 2% Leisure & tourism 2% c. 7% of our work for Government is Care & Justice services.
The remainder is embassy security, local government, support for disaster relief, charity and NGO work, border protection and landmine clearance.
28 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Mobile banking service due to the increase in electronic payments and internet banking, ACTIONS FOR 2019 traditional bank branch usage has declined in Continue to drive market penetration of some markets, resulting in bank branch closures.
integrated security solutions However, the banks recognise the value of Build on our market leadership in cash personal interaction with customers and so in automation services with more customers in some developed and emerging markets G4S has more markets launched a mobile banking service using the skills and fleet of our traditional cash-in-transit business.
Continue to invest in innovative and efficient services for customers G4S Pay is a new service launched in the Cross-selling and up-selling within and Netherlands, which enables retailers with our acrossmarkets Retail Cash Solution to process not only cash payments, but electronic payments with the same Continued investment in people, technology, software platform.
software and systems G4S TECHNOLOGY - TRANSFORMING RETAIL CASH MANAGEMENT RETAIL CASH SOLUTIONS, NORTH AMERICA In May 2018, G4S won a new, five year, Retail Cash Solutions contract with a major US retailer.
The contract was mobilised in the second half of 2018.
Under this initial contract, G4S implemented and managed an integrated cash management system using G4S proprietary software and service model in more than 500 stores.
In November 2018, the retailer awarded around another 600 stores to G4S.
Based on positive implementation and operational delivery and cost effectiveness, a third tranche of around 250 stores, was awarded in January 2019.
Implementation of both of these further awards began in March 2019.
The benefit of using G4S Retail Cash Solutions are substantial for large retail customers both in terms of reducing cash handling costs labour, banking fees and transportation and in providing better working capital management, freeing up to 80% of cash that was previously trapped in the cash processing system.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 29 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND PRODUCTIVITY The consolidation of the Secure Solutions business 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS Our productivity programmes have into four regions, the creation of the Global Cash generated material savings since 2016.
Solutions division and clustering of countries for Until 2017, most of the productivity management purposes is enabling efficiencies through savings were reinvested in sales and rationalisation of organisation design above business 70-80m business development, technology and unit level.
innovation and better systems and p. a.
During 2018, we started to see efficiencies come through in lower In 2018, the procurement team continued its On track to deliver 70- on-going development of the G4S supply base, administration costs and we believe that 80m annualised operational targeting sustained cost reduction and supplier cost savings by 2020 there remain many moreopportunities .
to be a more efficient organisation.
We are on track to deliver the recurring G4S supply chain is a critical part of the Group value proposition with over 40,000 suppliers providing  of 70 million to goods and services around the world.
With the 30bp 80millionper annum by 2020 which supplier review and reset programmes around the Improvement in Secure weset as our goal in 2017. world there has been a material reduction in the Solutions Adjusted PBITA number of suppliers used by G4S.
For example in margin in 2018 compared the UK the supply base has reduced from 10,000 with 2017 suppliers in 2014 to 4,000 in 2018 with 70% of UK suppliers being SMEs.
More focused business cultural change 2018 was a year in which G4S expanded its global Historically a significant part of the Groups strategy approach to buying across several new categories to 70% and development was growth through bolt-on enable countries to leverage the Groups scale and acquisitions and, in many cases, these acquisitions of UK suppliers are SMEs buying power.
These areas included fleet, travel, fire & were not fully integrated into the Group.
With the security products and uniforms please see case study Group offering similar services in a large number of opposite.
countries, this resulted in an inefficient organisation, with many management layers built up over time, It is expected that the renewed focus on targeted resulting in inefficiency and lack of accountability.
global leverage, complemented with local procurement market focus, will yield sustained cost The Group is now more focused, on two core reductions over the coming three years.
business segments, Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions and the board believes that a separation Operational excellence of Cash Solutions has the clear potential to enhance We have a number of initiatives in place to introduce the focus and success of both businesses and thus to standardised operational and functional processes.
We are also using IT-enabled automation and shared service centres to improve productivity.
One example Reinvesting for growth of this is Javelin.
A significant proportion of the gains we have made from our efficiency programmes have been reinvested Lean-process design Javelin in the business to improve risk management, increase Project Javelin is a new operating model for our the opportunities for growth as well as in processes manned security business based on the best working to drive further efficiency.
We have increasing practices and processes from across G4S.
Javelin confidence in being able to deliver further efficiencies replaces and demonstrably improves our previous and we are starting to see benefits increasingly flow systems and processes for recruitment, HR, talent through to the bottom line.
management, procurement, finance, contract management, payroll, billing, scheduling, tele-contact, Efficient organisation design and interactive voice response platform and operational management fide-layering control systems with a single Cloud-based platform.
Since benchmarking 130 business units across 90countries in 2017, we have invested 31 million in The pilot for Javelin was launched in Ireland in 2018 in restructuring and continued delayering of the November 2017.
The pilot programme allowed us management structures in the business and are now to learn how to best deliver this complex change working to have more efficient regional, functional programme within our business, identified areas of and operational frameworks.
our combined processes that work well and captured areas for improvement before further roll out.
30 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The enhanced version of Javelin reflecting the lessons learned, was deployed into Ireland during 2018 ACTIONS FOR 2019 and commenced implementation in the UK in early Continue with restructuring and 2019 for over 22,000 employees serving over 700 organisational efficiency programmes customers.
The implementation into North America Continue embedding Javelin in the UK and will commence later in the year and we are reviewing commence roll out in North America plans for further country roll outs to drive the programme across the Group.
Continue to focus on consolidating the supplier base, standardisation A safe operating environment of procurement processes, demand management and delivering savings The wellbeing and safety of our employees and those in our care remains a key priority for the Group.
We work in an inherently hazardous industry, with many colleagues trained and deployed to protect our customers and their property.
As a result, road traffic accidents and criminal attacks are inherent risks we face in delivering some of our services.
Our safety goal is zero harm.
We have invested in many new processes in recent years and have seen a marked reduction in serious incidents.
Please see page 20 for more details.
OUR VALUES IN ACTION - SOURCING OF UNIFORMS EFFICIENT AND ETHICAL G4S is one of the worlds largest users of uniforms which are traditionally sourced locally, resulting in spend fragmentation.
For example there are over 200 suppliers of uniforms in Europe.
2018 saw the first phase of a global sourcing programme to target lifecycle cost reduction through combined buying, range optimisation, and waste reduction.
In parallel with the commercial aspect of the selection, a new enhanced ethical supplier evaluation process was developed to ensure that suppliers demonstrated their sustained compliance with the ethical standards required by G4S and its customers.
SDGs: Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 31 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE Through a continued focus on cash management, we aim to reduce net debt Adjusted EBITDA from 2.7x at the end of 2018 to below 2.5x over the medium term.
Operating cash flow Strengthening collections performance 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS Underlying operating cash flow in 2018 was 453 Updated incentive plans since 2016 with greater million, down from 516 million in 2017 as expected.
Our 2018 cash flow conversion performance of 96% Improved management information to increase of Adjusted PBITA followed a strong performance accountability and influence behaviour.
Our medium-term guidance is that 20m Weekly calls with finance and operations to drive average operating cash flow conversion defined as cash collection.
Debt refinancing in 2018 net operating cash flow before tax and restructuring to underpin 20 million spend as a percentage of Adjusted PBITA will be Managing accounts payable reduction in the interest more than 100%.
The Groups days payable outstanding is 39 days charge by 2020 We continue to focus on improved working capital 2017: 42 days which is shorter than days sales management through strengthening bid evaluation outstanding of 55 days 2017: 52 days.
This shows frameworks to increase focus on frequency of that there is still an opportunity to improve.
invoicing and shorter payment terms.
Ensuring that supplier contracts are linked with 48m customer contracts.
Gross disposal proceeds Reducing the time between event to billing Re-negotiating improved terms through in 2018 Improving processes and automating event procurement teams.
billinginformation such as hours worked for example Project Javelin on page 30, milestones Capital allocation on-going priorities for use met, collections and deliveries in the cash ofcash solutionsbusiness.
2.5x All investment is reviewed to ensure that the Groups Centralising of billing events of global and strategic Net debt to EBITDA return on investment targets are met, and all major accounts in some countries.
medium term target capital investment projects are approved by the Automation of invoices removing the resource and appropriate authority in line with delegation limits.
Other measures, such as whether we are able to Seeking to distribute invoices electronically, at achieve the benefits of the project in line with the lower cost and quicker than via post.
Group values and whether the commercial risks are acceptable, are also considered.
We intend to remain soundly financed with average CAPITAL ALLOCATION POLICY operating cash flow conversion of more than100% of Net debt Adjusted EBITDA of below 2.5x in Adjusted PBITA and a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA medium term ratio of less than 2.5x in the medium term.
Priorities for excess cash will be investment, dividends and, Priority uses of any surplus cash flow: inthe near term, further leverage reduction.
Investment in growth and productivity Dividend growth Leverage reduction 32 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Portfolio management G4S CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT ANDGOVERNANCEMODEL The Groups portfolio management programme is substantially complete.
The programme has greatly Contract risk management improved the Groups strategic focus and has also Our contract risk management model was implemented in 2014, and aims to realised over 560 million in disposal proceeds in ensure we sign contracts that we can deliver efficiently and effectively and is relation to the 49 businesses sold.
This includes gross shown in the pie chart below: proceeds of 48 million relating to disposals in 2018 2017: 166 million including the disposal of the Groups businesses in Hungary, its archiving business Risk Bid risk in Kenya and the Cash Solutions businesses in the Committee assessment United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Colombia.
The Risk Committee will Based on financial, legal, The proceeds from these disposals have reduced undertake a review of a reputational and operational the Groups leverage and have been reinvested in an major contract at each risk criteria.
Referred to the organic growth and productivity programme from of its meetings.
region, Group Executive Committee or board as which we expect to see good returns.
Portfolio appropriate for review review remains an important part of capital discipline andapproval.
and each business has to continue to earn its place in the Groups portfolio.
Bid approval Contract mobilisation Bids customer value Pension deficit repair plan propositions, commercial Key contractual terms and risk mitigation requirements and G4S operates a wide range of retirement benefit strategies are challenged.
risk mitigation strategies, based arrangements including funded defined contribution, Expected risk-weighted on complexity and risk profile multi-employer and funded and un-funded defined return is assessed before of mobilisation, are mapped benefit schemes.
The UK defined benefit scheme approval is given to accountable which is largely closed for future accrual accounts or withheld.
for approximately 60% 2017: 65% of the Groups net defined benefit pension deficit for accounting purposes of 302m 2017: 318m net of On-going Group applicabletax.
contract assurance internal audit During the year, the Group contributed 41m Contracts subject to Internal audit 2017:40m of scheduled deficit repair contributions on-going scrutiny at conducts audits to its UK schemes.
The triennial valuation of the regional or Group level of selected Groups main UK pension scheme is underway as a based on commercial contracts.
result of which future deficit-repair contributions are scale and level of risk.
For more details of the Groups pension arrangements, see page 49.
Debt refinancing G4S had gross debt of 2.7 billion 2017: 2.5billion and net debt of 1.6 billion at the end of 2018 2017: 1.5 billion.
Around 570 million of the 1billion debt which matures in 2018 2019 is subject to postFINANCIAL OUTLOOK hedging average interest rates of between 6.90% and Average organic revenue growth of 4-6% perannum 7.75% see page 47.
The Group has good access Restructuring and efficiency programmes to deliver 70m-80m annual to capital markets and a diverse range of finance costs savings from 2020 and around 20m of finance cost reduction providers and as a result began to refinance its debt before the impact of IFRS16 per annum by 2020 at much lower rates in 2017 which continued into 2018 and will result in a material reduction in the Compounding benefit of investment, growth and productivity to deliver Groups interest charge from 2019 onwards.
strong earnings growth Underlying operating cash flow of over 100% of Adjusted PBITA Continued focus on cash management and working capital Continued disciplined approach to capital investment expect to invest 100m-150m perannum Achieve and maintain net debt Adjusted EBITDA below2.5x in the medium term Dividends increasing in line with long term growth in earnings Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 33
