Strategic report Value proposition for lenders Attractive stable returns Through our online lending platform and model, a wide range of investors are now able to access SME loans, which were previously only held on bank balance sheets.
In this way, weve opened up a new asset class to investors and enabled them to receive attractive, risk-adjusted returns.
Our strong investment track record has led to high investor We attract a diverse and sustainable investor base retentionrates.
In 2018, 74% of lending came from existinginvestors.
Whats more, we regularly stress test our loans to assess thepotential impact of adverse economic conditions on ourloanbook.
Covering various recessionary scenarios, ourtests suggest that, even in a major economic downturn, our investors would still make positive returns.
Projected annualised investor returns for loans 1 originated in 2018, by geography 6.48.4% 5.87.8% 5.37.3% 50 12 6 32 Q5.16.0% 50% Institutional direct lending 12% Projected bad debt rate for loans originated in 2018, Funding Circle SME Income Fund 2 bygeography 6% National and supranational entities 32% Retail 4.66.4% The diversity of our investor base is testimony to the appeal 2.24.2% 3.03.8% 1.73.7% ofour value proposition.
Since 2016, 40% of lending through our platform has come from investors lending in multiple Funding Circle geographies, reinforcing our scale and providing a deep and stable source of funding.
Weve attracted retail 1 T he graph shows how loans are estimated to perform.
Loans are shown by the year they were taken out, and are after fees and bad debt.
Returns equal gross andaccredited investors, asset management companies, yield minus net losses minus servicing fee and are estimated, using an internally insurance companies, government-backed entities and funds managed model, by cohort of origination incorporating actual returns received for both public and private.
We also work with institutional each cohort and adding future expected returns which are determined by using the same aforementioned model.
These expectations may be revised for example investors on securitisation programmes which are marketed if macroeconomic conditions change and the projected return, projected gross as SBOLT.
yield and projected bad debt rate may be adjusted to reflect this.
Our ability to attract such investors is partly due to our 2 T he graph shows the projected annualised percentage of loans, by loan amount, that will not be repaid.
Loans are shown by the year they were taken out and reputation for delivering attractive returns and stable bad include recoveries.
It can take up to five years for loans to be fully repaid, so the debtrates.
Our credit assessment process combines projected return, projected gross yield and projected bad debt rate take into account how each year of loans are performing and how Funding Circle expects technology with advanced data analytics and proprietary them to perform in future.
These expectations may be revisited, for example if riskmodels.
Andour specialist Collections, Servicing and macroeconomic conditions change, and the projected return, projected gross Recoveries team works closely with borrowers who run yield and projected bad debt rate may be adjusted to reflect this.
intodifficulty, which results in industry-leading collections across all of our geographies.
After an initial investment period of two to three years in any new market, were able to provide healthy yields to investors.
Globally, investors are projected to earn returns ranging from 5%to 8% on loans originated in 2018.
20 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report Existing investors continue to grow investment over time Existing investors New investors 26% 15% 36% 74% 85% 32% 64% 68% 55% 45% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Other key aspects of our investor : Passive investment: Risk management and credit assessment: - All institutional and retail investors, with the exception - We blend practices from the financial services industry with ofretail investors in Germany and the Netherlands and innovation in technology to manage risk for all investors.
accredited investors in the US, invest passively through our - We combine cutting-edge technology with the use of platform.
proprietary scoring models and data analytics techniques.
Random allocation: This enhances the precision and efficiency of our credit risk and performance predictions.
- All investors are randomly allocated loans.
In each geography, retail investors purchase fractional loan parts - We continuously monitor credit risk with a range of and institutional investors purchase whole loans.
measures, including external indicators by region and sector, internal risk indicators and portfolio performance, Diversification: and we are able to react and implement changes quickly.
- We enable investors to lend in a variety of ways, across all ofour markets, and deliver appropriate structures for different Combined expertise: types of investors.
By diversifying our portfolio, we help to - Our experienced Credit Assessment team works hand in manage risk for investors.
hand with our Product and Engineering teams, offering a unique mix of expertise to enhance our investor proposition.
