Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued as at 31 December 2018 Operational risk continued Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from externalevents.
KEY RISKS MANAGEMENT OF RISK CHANGE IN RISK IN YEAR We segregate funds for retail individuals Client money risk and institutional investors in compliance Failure of Funding Circle with CASS regulation across a diverse The structure of our Financial toadequately protect and range of banks.
Operations and Payments teams segregate client money remains unchanged.
maylead to financial loss, We continue to manage the risk by: reputational damage We have enhanced controls - a monthly Client Money governance andregulatory censure.
inrelationtopayment creation, sub-committee solely focused on payment authorisation, reconciliation making decisions in relation to client review andmonthly reporting.
money, as well as reviewing management information and We have introduced best practices regulatory returns: inrelation to the holding and treatment of client money and - oversight from the Funding Circle perform daily reconciliations across Holdings plc Board and the Funding all geographies, not just the UK.
Circle Ltd Board including an annual report, prepared by the CF10a, that highlights client money risks: and - external UK Client Money audit report executed by PwC and reviewed by the Funding Circle Ltd Board.
Viability statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code - grow awareness of the Funding Circle brand in order to theCode, the Directors have assessed the future prospects increase our market share of lending to SMEs: and viability of the Group for a period significantly longer than - diversify and increase funding from a variety of investors 12 months from the approval of the financial statements.
in order to meet future borrower demand: and Assessment of prospects - continue to invest in data analytics and technology, leading to expanded data sets, enhanced credit models The Directors have determined that a three-year period to anda better customer experience.
31December 2021 constitutes an appropriate period over which to perform the assessment as: Funding Circles future prospects are assessed through the Groups strategic planning process.
The strategic planning - it is consistent with the Groups medium-term planningprocess: process involves a detailed review of the plan by the CEO and - it represents a period over which there is a reasonable CFO.
This is done in conjunction with the Global Leadership degree of confidence in the reliability and accuracy Team, consisting of regional and functional leaders, together offorecasts: and with a presentation and discussion at the Board.
- periods beyond this point in a high growth business like The first year of this strategic plan consists of the Groups Funding Circle are significantly harder to predict accurately.
2019 annual budget and is subject to a reforecast part way through the year.
The budget is extended into the second The Groups overall strategy and business model, as set out andthird year of the plan using expected growth rates already on pages 8 to 23, are fundamental in driving the growth of the experienced across the Group.
Progress against the financial business and therefore its future prospects.
The key factors that budget and forecasts is then reviewed monthly by the Global are likely to affect the future prospects of the Group include Leadership Team and reported to, and challenged by, the Board.
the ability to: 44 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report - controlled cost growth: Key assumptions The key assumptions underpinning the strategic plan - no fundamental breakdown in the IT infrastructure beforesevere but plausible scenarios include: ormajordata loss: and - originations, LuM and revenue growth across the Group: - no significant impact on the business model or operations from a recession or Brexit.
- conservative forecasts for gaining market share ineachgeography: Assessment of viability The output of the process above reflects the Directors best assessment of the future prospects of the Group over the next three years.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks as set out on pages 39 to 44.
They have also considered the potential impact of the risks on the viability ofthe Group.
The financial plan was then subject to differing scenarios to assess those risks and quantify their financial impact on the Group.
The one that represented the most severe but plausible scenario was modelled as described below.
This sensitivity took into account the likely mitigating actions to the operations.
Link to principal risks Scenarios anduncertainties Impact on the businessmodel Severe global - Strategic risk Under a severe downturn it is expected that: downturn impacting - Credit risk - there would be a significant increase in the number of borrowers defaulting: originations in each ofour geographies - the returns for investors would be negatively affected resulting in a withdrawal of funding: and - this in turn would reduce the level of originations unless much higher incentives were offered to investors to continue funding.
A further subset of risks including the reduction in trust from both borrowers and investors has also been considered within this scenario.
The mitigating actions that would be taken by management include a reduction in the overall marketing spend, a tightening of the credit models to improve the levels of return for investors and increased costs of borrowing for SMEs.
The above scenario is hypothetical and severe but designed to Going concern stress the business model and the viability of the Group.
The As a result of the work undertaken above to support the stress testing confirmed that the Groups forecast net cash viability statement, the Directors also consider it appropriate position remained positive and that none of the scenarios to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
would threaten the viability of the Group over the forecast period.
In all cases including the severe scenario above, with appropriate management actions, the scenarios were controllable to mitigate the impact on the Groups liquidity.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities and obligations as they fall due over the period to 31December 2021.
