BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 6 OUR BOARD 1.
JOHN CONNOLLY Non-Executive Director Chairman 2 7 of the board Appointment to the board: June 2012 Committee membership: Nomination Committee chair and Risk Committee Skills and experience: A chartered accountant with extensive experience working in a global business environment and in sectors with strategic relevance to the Group.
Career experience: Spent his career until May 2011 with global professional services firm Deloitte, was Global Managing Director and then Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011.
He was Senior Partner and CEO 3 8 of the UK Partnership from 1999 until his retirement from the firm.
Current external commitments: Chairman of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity board of trustees and director of a number of private companies.
ASHLEY ALMANZA Chief Executive Officer Appointment to the board: May 2013 Committee membership: Risk Committee Skills and experience: Extensive board and executive management experience in 4 9 complex international businesses.
Holds an MBA from the London Business School.
Career experience: Senior executive roles at BG Group from 1993 to 2012, including CFO from 2002 to 2011 and Executive Vice President from 2009 to 2012, during which he led BG Groups UK, European and Central Asian businesses and the groups commercial strategy in Central Asia.
Formerly non-executive director chair of Risk and Audit of Schroders plc between 2011 and 2016 and Noble Corporation Inc between 2013 and 2018.
Current external commitments: Chairman of 5 10 the International Security Ligue.
JOHN DALY Non-Executive Director Appointment to the board: June 2015 Committee membership: Remuneration Committee chair and Audit Committee Skills and experience: Diploma in marketing and an MBA from the University of Dublin.
Significant executive management experience in major international businesses with extensive knowledge of Asia and the Middle East.
74 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Career experience: Worked in sales and significant international experience for 16 6.
STEVE MOGFORD marketing in the pharmaceutical industry years as managing partner of Ernst & Young Non-Executive Director Senior before joining British American Tobacco Consulting Australia, CEO of Capgemini Independent Director BAT in 1994 and held various executive Ernst & Young in Asia and then CEO in the Appointment to the board: May 2016 leadership positions worldwide over the UK.
Then served on Capgeminis executive Committee membership: Audit Committee, next 20 years at BAT including COO & management committee for eight years Nomination Committee and Risk Regional Director for Asia Pacific.
as deputy group CEO and then CEO of Committee.
Current external commitments: Capgemini Global Outsourcing Services.
Skills and experience: First Class BSc Non-executive Chairman of Britvic plc and Current external commitments: Honours Degree in Astrophysics, Maths Vivo Energy.
Non-executive director of Actual and Physics from Queen Elizabeth College, Experience plc.
ELISABETH FLEURIOT of delivery of complex programmes in the Non-Executive Director 9.
BARBARA THORALFSSON defence, infrastructure and utilities market.
Appointment to the board: June 2018 Non-Executive Director Career experience: Served a 30-year career Committee membership: CSR Committee Appointment to the board: July 2016 with British Aerospace, later BAE Systems, chair and Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Nomination during which time he held several senior Skills and experience: BA in Economy, Committee and Remuneration Committee management positions before becoming Finance and Marketing and an MA in Skills and experience: MBA in marketing and COO, with particular responsibility for Economic Sciences from the Institut finance, Columbia University, New York programmes, major projects and customer dEtudes Politiques fide Paris.
Awarded the and a BA in psychology, Duke University, support, and a member of the BAE Systems title of Chevalier fide LOrdre national fide la North Carolina.
Chief executive of SELEX Galileo Lgion dhonneur.
with experience using technology to meet for four years prior to joining United Utilities Career experience: Over 20 years customers needs and develop new business Group plc in 2011 as CEO.
experience as President and CEO in FMCG models.
Strong knowledge of North Current external commitments: CEO of multinational companies based in Europe, America, Latin America and Scandinavia.
Served as CEO of Thai Career experience: After an early career Union Europe & Africa between 2013 in marketing in North America, held senior 7.
Prior to this, she spent 12 years management roles in the consumer goods Non-Executive Director with the Kellogg Company, in various roles and telecommunications sectors including Appointment to the board: January 2018 including Regional President and Senior Vice CEO of NetCom ASA, Norways second Committee membership: Audit Committee President Emerging Markets.
Earlier in her largest mobile network operator.
Extensive chair and CSR Committee.
career she was General Manager, Europe for non-executive experience with global Skills and experience: A chartered Yoplait, having spent the first 18 years of her companies including several international accountant with extensive international career with the Danone group.
Current external commitments: Currently Current external commitments: NonCareer experience: Began his career at a non-executive director of Stora Enso executive director of Svenska Cellulosa KPMG and developed his experience in Oyj, a company listed on the Helsinki and Aktiebolaget SCA publ, Essity Aktiebolag emerging markets, working in Malaysia and Stockholm stock exchanges, board member publ and Hilti AG.
Latin America for the manufacturer ICI.
In of a private company investing in foodtech 1993 was appointed Finance Head, Asia start ups and board member of Fondation 10.
TIM WELLER Pacific for Zeneca Agrochemicals and later Caritas.
Chief Financial Officer promoted to Global Financial Controller.
Appointment to the board: October 2016 In 2000 he joined Syngenta AG, as Group 5.
WINNIE KIN WAH FOK having previously served as non-executive Financial Controller, later being promoted to Non-Executive Director director since April 2013.
CFO until his retirement in 2016.
Whilst at Appointment to the board: October 2010 Committee membership: Risk Committee Syngenta he also served as interim CEO for Committee membership: CSR Committee Skills and experience: BSc Hons nine months.
and Remuneration Committee Engineering Science degree from the Current external commitments: Member of Skills and experience: An auditor by training, University of Exeter.
An accountant by the Supervisory Board of Koninkijke DSM with a Bachelor of Commerce degree training and a Fellow of the Institute of N. V and a non-executive director of RHI from the University of New South Wales, Chartered Accountants in England and Magnesita N. V. Australia and fellowship or membership of Wales with significant experience of the accounting bodies in Australia, Hong Kong energy and utilities sectors.
Career experience: Joined KPMG in 1985, Non-Executive Director Career experience: International board rising to partnership in 1997 before joining Appointment to the board: January 2013 and senior management experience with Granada plc as director of financial control.
Committee membership: Risk extensive knowledge of Asian markets and Held CFO positions with Innogy, a leading Committee chair, Audit Committee strong involvement in Scandinavia.
Involved integrated energy company at the time, andCSR Committee in management positions in finance, audit RWE Thames Water and United Utilities Skills and experience: Degree in economics and corporate advisory work and has held Group plc.
Was CFO of Cable & Wireless and decision science from the Wharton a wide range of roles in private equity firms Worldwide plc between 2010 and 2011 and School, University of Pennsylvania.
In-depth with a particular focus in Asia.
CFO of Petrofac Limited between 2011 and knowledge of outsourcing in both the Current external commitments: Senior October 2016. public and private sectors and extensive advisor to Wallenberg Foundations AB: Current external commitments: international experience in emerging non-executive director of Volvo Car Non-executive director of the CarbonTrust.
Corporation and SEB AB: and investment Career experience: Served a 30-year career committee member for the HOPU with Capgemini, starting as managing partner Investment Fund.
of mid-Atlantic information and technology for Ernst & Young.
He went on to gain Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 75
