BUSINESS OVERVIEW: CASH SOLUTIONS 12 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 PROVIDING CASH SOLUTIONS In order to achieve economies of scale, we have built number one or number two positions in 41 of the 44 countries in which we operate.
In all of these markets, a very large share of the overall cash handling and cash management market remains within banks, retailers and other businesses whose primary function is not cash handling.
We believe that these banks and businesses will continue to outsource cash management services to G4S.
Our improving unit economics, the strength of our market positions and our innovative cash and payment technology give us confidence that G4S Cash Solutions is well positioned to play a leading role in the next wave of cash management outsourcing.
We have a market leading position in the large retailer segment in the United States and we are one of the market leaders globally in the small and midsize business market segments.
Our technology is delivering significant savings for our customers and provides a valuable higher margin annuity revenue stream for G4S.
Market penetration is low at this stage and we therefore see substantial potential for further growth.
Indeed we believe that our cash technology services have the clear potential to produce profits greater than the profits from the Groups CIT and cash processing business in the medium term.
Our values in action Geldmaat, Netherlands Geldmaat previously known as GSN is a cash utility organisation founded by ABN AMRO Bank, ING Bank and Rabobank in the Netherlands in 2011.
Since 2011, G4S has been in a strategic partnership with Geldmaat and the contract was renewed in 2018 for a further two years.
Under the partnership, G4S ensures cash availability and affordability, as well as providing cash transport, ATM servicing and maintenance of 70% of GSNs bank branches and ATMs across the Dutch market.
The main benefits of using an integrated cash solution provided by G4S are service continuity, efficiency gains, and reduced operational costs, and improved quality ofservice.
SDGs: Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 13 BUSINESS OVERVIEW: CASH SOLUTIONS In January 2018, the Group established the Global Cash Solutions division and in December 2018, the board G4S CONNECTING announced it was reviewing options for the separation of theGroups Cash Solutions businesses from the Group.
The board believes that a separation of Cash Solutions has CASH SOLUTIONS the clear potential to enhance the focus and success of both businesses and unlock substantial shareholder value.
MARKET AND SOCIETAL TRENDS HOW WE ARE POSITIONED Global cash-usage trends Global footprint Cash usage is typically driven by country-specific legislation, domestic non-cash payment initiatives and 2bn 44 COUNTRIES OF OPERATION sovereign currencies.
Across all markets, the availability of We have a unique portfolio of market leading cash cash is important for the financial inclusion of all groups People globally dont management businesses serving customers.
in society including those who do not have ready access have bank accounts to non-cash means of payment, including un-banked individuals and groups.
Network consolidation Market leading positions The importance of maintaining strong unit cost economics has encouraged network rationalisation and we believe $19bn 1 OR 2 IN 41 COUNTRIES that with lower cash volumes in some markets together We have focused our business into key markets with with new higher value-added services partly cannibalising Global value of Cashstronger growth potential and are number one or two traditional cash-in-transit services, it is likely that in-Transit and related in 41 out of the 44 countries we havecash businesses.
some, if not all cash markets will experience network services in 2017 consolidation.
A number of industry participants have publicly stated that they are looking to make acquisitions, whereas our priority has been to consolidate market share organically by stimulating the next wave of outsourcing and by deploying more efficient technology to maximise our market share.
Retail and non-bank opportunities Market leading Retail Cash Solutions technology In many markets, retailers and businesses operate in very competitive environments and are looking to reduce 75-80% 23,300 LOCATIONS costs including cash handling and to free up idle cash Our cash software is deployed at 23,300 2017: sitting in tills, safes, vehicles and cash-processing centres.
Reduction in labour costs 19,800 locations across North America, Europe, Asia G4S software and service, enhanced smart safes and Pacificand Africa including at some of the worlds cash recycling services offer a compelling commercial largest retailers.
Global market penetration of this type proposition to retailers by enabling a step-change in the of cash management software is at an early stage and efficiency of their cashoperations.
we believe that our technology has significant growth potential.
Bank branch automation and Technology and innovation outsourced cash processing We have been developing integrated technology to improve efficiency combining hardware, proprietary 80% Banks and financial institutions are also under pressure cash management software, real-time banking to be more efficient, lower the cost of cash handling integration, same day credit and customer service and Up to 80% idle cash and reduce their branch network whilst maintaining support.
See page 28. freed up when retailers customer access and service.
We have developed market leading integrated technology to address these areas use Retail Cash Solutions which combines hardware, proprietary cash management technology software, real-time banking integration, same day credit and customer service and support.
Freedonia Security Services Report, October 2018.
14 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 P THE VALUE WE CREATE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CASH SOLUTIONS OUR BUSINESS MODEL TRANSFORMING THE WAY CASH IS MANAGED We provide cash solutions and services that materially improve the control and We believe that the profits generated efficiency of our customers cash handling.
from new cash technology could exceed We continue to invest in innovative products and services such as Retail Cash those from traditional cash services in the Solutions, CASH360, Deposita and bank branch automation.
We believe that we have a significant opportunity to extend and grow our new technology and services across our global markets.
SOCIETY $5tn More than $5 trillion cash is in circulation, according to the Bank for International Settlements.
Cash is used around the world and we are helping to ensure cash payments are cost effective.
The availability and sustainable usage of cash is Productivity Product and important to provide choice for customers enhancements service investment and for the financial inclusion of vulnerable and service and innovation groups, such as the elderly and people with disabilities or those living in rural areas.
G4S Retail Cash Solutions technology results in 40-60% fewer journeys by cash G4S transportation vehicles saving on fuel costs Investment and helping reduce traffic congestion and in industryExpanding carbon emissions.
shaping into new CUSTOMERS proprietary markets CUSTOMERS software and services 25bn We estimate that the addressable market Strong sales pipeline for smart safes and recycling solutions is in technologyaround 25bn per annum.
enabled cash solutions EMPLOYEES 32,000 Over 32,000 colleagues are employed by #1 OR 2 MARKET LEADING our Cash Solutions businesses.
POSITIONS IN 41 OF 44 COUNTRIES SHAREHOLDERS G4S Network G4S People G4S Technology 2-3x Cash and payment technology has the potential to grow to be two to three times larger in the medium term.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 15 A D R E T T N S E U R R S H T I P
