EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 5 9 2 6 10 3 7 11 4 8 76 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 1.
STEPHANE VERDOY Chief Executive Officer Group General Counsel Group Sales and Marketing Director See page 74 for full biography Appointed:2001 Appointed: February 2018 Skills and experience:Sren began his Skills and experience: Stephane joined G4S career as a lawyer in Denmark and has had in May 2014 in the role of Regional Sales 2.
TIM WELLER Chief Financial Officer a wide range of legal experience as general Operations Director and moved in to counsel for international groups in Europe the role of Sales Director, Europe shortly See page 75 for full biography and the US before joining the Group in afterwards.
Stephane holds a bachelor 2001 as Group General Counsel.
Sren degree in Marketing and Distribution.
MEL BROOKS has overall responsibility for all internal and to joining G4S he held many different roles Regional President, Africa external legal services for G4S Group and in sales, sales operations and field marketing Appointed:May 2015 the Groups insurance programme.
His last position at Fedex was Vice Skills and experience:Mel joined G4S is non-executive director of Basico A S, a President Global Sales and Sales Operations in 2012 and his roles included Group member of the Danish Bar and Law Society, Europe.
Strategy & Commercial Director and CEO a member of the advisory board of the India and South Asia, where he led the Danish-UK Association and author of the 10.
SANJAY VERMA transformation of the business, improving book Executive Management Contracts, operations, customer service and sales.
Prior Regional CEO, Asia Pacific published in Denmark.
Appointed:January 2018 to joining G4S, Mel held a number of senior line and functional roles in the defence Skills and experience:Sanjay joined G4S 7.
JENNI MYLES in May 2017 as Regional President Secure and technology industries where he was responsible for service line and commercial Group HR Director Solutions Asia Pacific.
Sanjay has extensive Appointed:July 2015 business experience operating across Asia strategies, technology development and leadership of a number of business unit Skills and experience:Jenni has extensive Pacific having been based in India, China experience in employee engagement, and Hong Kong.
Sanjay joined G4S from turnaround programmes.
talent management and organisational Cushman & Wakefield, a global real estate development, having held HR leadership services firm.
JOHN KENNING roles in G4S business units and regions company he held a number of leadership Regional CEO, Americas across both developed and emerging roles including CEO, Asia Pacific and Appointed:January 2018 Skills and experience:John has extensive markets.
She also spent a number of years Chief Executive, Global Occupier Services, in head office as Director of Employee covering 16 countries in the Asia Pacific commercial experience.
He holds a bachelors degree in business from Miami Engagement & HR, leading the Groups region.
Sanjay is a graduate in electrical employee engagement and labour relations engineering and has a MBA in finance & University and prior to joining G4S in 2014, Johns previous roles included Executive strategy.
Prior to joining G4S in 1998, marketing.
Jenni held HR positions in a variety of Vice President and President, Commercial Business for the global division of OfficeMax.
business sectors such as automotive, 11.
DEBBIE WALKER FMCG and consulting.
She is a Fellow of He was also President, North America Group Corporate Affairs Director Commercial for ADT Tyco Security the CharteredInstitute of Personnel & Appointed:March 2004 Development FCIPD.
Services, where he led the transformation Skills and experience:Debbie is responsible of the business to a technology services for the corporate communications team leader.
He is a member of Miami University 8.
JESUS ROSANO which focuses on the Groups key audiences Advisory Athletic Board and a past board Divisional CEO, Global Cash Solutions media, government, employees and member of the Make-a-Wish Foundation.
She is also responsible for the Skills and experience:Jesus joined G4S in Groups CSR and human rights strategies.
GRAHAM LEVINSOHN March 2014 as Chief Operating Officer, Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck Latin America.
In January 2016 Jesus and Securicor, she held a number of senior Regional CEO, Europe and Middle East Appointed:November 2017 joined the executive committee as Group marketing and communications roles within Strategy and Commercial Director and was the Securicor group, having joined in 1993.
Skills and experience:Graham has more than 20 years experience in the security appointed to his current role, on 1 January 2018.
Jesus holds a bachelors degree in industry.
He has held a number of commercial and line management positions Engineering and Administration from ITESM University, Mexico.
Prior to joining G4S in our cash and security businesses.
Graham was responsible for the creation of the he held senior line, functional and regional roles at DHL, in Latin America and North UK cash centres outsourcing business in 2001.
He became Group Strategy and America.
Before DHL, Jesus worked in strategy consulting and investment banking.
Development Director in 2008 and joined the executive committee in 2010.
He was appointed Regional CEO, Europe in 2013 and the Middle East was added to his portfolio in 2017.
He is a director of CoESS and a director of the International Security Ligue.
Graham is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 77
