ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMS ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMs The Group applies the basis of preparation for its Underlying results statutory results shown on page 149.
To provide To provide a better indication of the performance additional information and analysis which enables of the Groups on-going business at the year end, a full understanding of the Groups results and the Group separately presents its underlying results.
to identify easily the performance of the Groups Underlying results are defined as the adjusted results on-going businesses, the Group also makes use of of the Group i. e. stated before the effect of specific a number of Alternative Performance Measures and separately disclosed items excluding the results APMs in the management of its operations and of onerous contracts and businesses that have been as a key component of its internal and external sold or closed in the current and comparative years.
Those APMs are prepared and presented Underlying results for the comparative year are in accordance with the following basis of preparation.
re-presented to remove the effect of businesses disposed of or closed in the current year to enable a Whilst broadly consistent with the treatment adopted like-for-like comparison of the results of the Groups by both the Groups business sector peers and by on-going activities at the end of the most recent other businesses outside of the Groups business reporting year.
sector, these APMs are not necessarily directly comparable with those used by other companies.
A reconciliation of the underlying results to the statutory results is included on page 50.
Adjusted results In order to allow a full understanding of its results, Constant currency results the Group separately discloses the effects on profit In order to allow readers to assess the performance of strategic restructuring activities, acquisition-related of the Groups business before the effect of foreign amortisation, goodwill impairments and profits exchange movements, the Group also presents or losses arising on the acquisition or disposal of its comparative results excluding cash flows businesses together, separately disclosed items.
retranslated to sterling using the average rates for the TheGroup also discloses separately those items that current year.
Cash flows are not retranslated but are the Group believes need to be shown separately presented at historical exchange rates.
Comparative to allow a more fulsome understanding of the results for hyperinflationary economies are translated results for the year because of their size, nature or at current period closing exchange rates when incidence specific items.
The Group has separately presenting constant currency results.
For 2018 the disclosed in 2018 the impact of the California class only hyperinflationary economy in which the Group action settlement and the impact of the guaranteed operated was Argentina.
A reconciliation of the constant currency results for Adjusted measures of profit and earnings are stated the year to statutory results is included on page 57. before the effects of separately disclosed and specific items: the related tax effects: and tax-specific charges Revised presentation of APMs or credits which have a material impact such as those In prior years, the Group separately reported the arising from changes in tax legislation.
results of its core businesses.
Core businesses were Adjusted measures of profit are provided to allow the defined as the underlying business excluding portfolio trading results of the Group to be assessed separately businesses being the parts of the business that had from the effects of corporate actions such as been identified for exit and certain legacy onerous acquisitions, disposals and strategic restructuring and contracts.
The results of the portfolio businesses and the effects of significant or unusual items.
onerous contracts were reported separately.
After the completion of some minor disposals in the current A reconciliation of Adjusted PBITA to operating profit year, the portfolio programme is considered to be is included on page 44. substantially complete, and the Group manages the former portfolio businesses as part of its underlying business.
Accordingly the Group has revised the presentation of its prior year comparative APMs to include portfolio businesses within underlying results to enable the presentation of underlying results on a like-for-like basis as described above.
40 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 A reconciliation of the results from core businesses as b. Organic growth previously stated to the underlying results in included Organic growth is calculated based on revenue on page 56. growth at constant currency, adjusted to exclude the impact of any acquisitions during the current or Business reporting structure prior years.
In line with its strategy for managing the business, the c. Adjusted profit before interest, tax and Group reports separately the underlying results of amortisation Adjusted PBITA its Cash Solutions and Secure Solutions businesses.
The Group uses Adjusted PBITA as a consistent Theresults for the Secure Solutions business are internal and external reporting measure of its further divided geographically into the following regions: performance, as management views it as being Africa: more representative of financial performance Americas combining the Secure Solutions from the normal course of business and more comparable year to year.
Adjusted PBITA businesses of the previously reported Latin America and North America regions : excludes the effect of separately disclosed items being restructuring costs, goodwill impairment, Asia combining the Secure Solutions businesses amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets of the previously reported Asia Pacific region with and profits or losses on disposal or closure of that of India and Bangladesh : and businesses and specific items, which the Group Europe & Middle East combining the Secure believes should be disclosed separately by virtue Solutions businesses of the previously reported of their size, nature or incidence, as explained on Middle East & India, Europe, and UK & Ireland page 42. regions but excluding that of India and Bangladesh.
Restructuring costs The Group reports separately the results of onerous contracts and the results of its disposed businesses, These costs relate to the wider strategic being those that have been sold in the current or transformation of the Group and are excluded from prior years.
Group and regional Adjusted PBITA since they reflect Group decisions and are not considered to In prior years, the Group reported its APMs on a be reflective of the underlying financial performance largely geographical basis, split into the following seven of the individual businesses.
This programme is of geographical regions: Africa, Asia, Middle East & India, a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and Europe, United Kingdom & Ireland, Latin America, and approved by the group executive committee.
A reconciliation of the results from 2017 the Group announced a three-year plan to core businesses excluding onerous contracts and the 2020 to implement efficient organisational design portfolio businesses in the previous structure to the and leaner processes, which is likely to require results from core businesses in the new structure is further restructuring investment.
Local, non-strategic included on page 56. restructuring costs in the businesses continue to These components, together with the impact be included within Adjusted PBITA, consistent with of restructuring costs, specific items and other prioryears.
separately disclosed items constitute continuing Goodwill impairment and amortisation of operations under IFRS.
Discontinued operations, in accordance with IFRS 5, represent areas of the acquisition-related intangible assets business which are being managed for sale or closure The goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets but which represent material business segments or mainly related to the capitalised value of customer entities.
The Group has not classified any operations lists, which resulted in these charges, arose when the as discontinued in any of the years presented.
Group acquired a number of its current businesses.
All amounts recorded as discontinued relate to As a contrast,  businesses in businesses sold prior to 1 January 2017. the Group, whilst clearly benefitting from intangible assets such as talent and customer relationships, Financial performance indicators do not have any associated goodwill or acquisitionThe key financial indicators used by the Group in related intangible assets recognised in the Groups measuring progress against strategic objectives are set consolidated statement of financial position.
out below, and are reconciled for the current andprior year to the Groups statutory results onpage 50: a.
Revenue Statutory revenue arising in each of the underlying, onerous contract and disposed business components.
Underlying revenue is a Key Performance Indicator KPI.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 41 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMS CONTINUED Impairment and amortisation of goodwill and Profits and losses on disposal or acquisition-related intangible assets are excluded from closure ofsubsidiaries and losses from Adjusted PBITA as they relate to historical acquisition  activity rather than the underlying trading performance These items are excluded from the Groups adjusted of the business, and this presentation enables performance measures since they are not reflective of effective comparison of business performance across the underlying financial performance of the Group.
the Group, regardless of whether businesses were acquired or developed organically.
Thisapproach Further details regarding these excluded items can be provides management with comparable information found in note 8 on page 163. for day-to-day decision making.
Theincome and Underlying Adjusted PBITA is a KPI.
trading profits earned from previously-acquired businesses are, however, included within Adjusted d. Operating cash flow PBITA, and this treatment may differ from how other Net cash flow from operating activities before groups present profits andamortisation of intangible tax.
Underlying operating cash flow excludes assets relating tobusinesses acquired.
restructuring spend and is a KPI.
The Group reports amortisation of all  intangible assets, which are mainly related to e. Operating cash flow conversion development costs and software, as a charge within Operating cash flow presented as a percentage of Adjusted PBITA, to reflect the amortisation of capital Adjusted PBITA.
expenditure invested in these assets to deliver the day-to-day operations, consistent with the treatment f. Earnings ofdepreciation of capital expenditure invested in Profit attributable to equity shareholders of G4S property, plant and equipment.
Specific items g. Earnings per share EPS These items are those that, based on managements Profit attributable to equity shareholders of judgment, need to be disclosed separately in G4S plc, per share, from continuing operations.
arriving atoperating profit by virtue of their size, Underlying EPS is a KPI.
They are excluded from the Groups adjusted performance measures since they h. Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA are not considered tobe representative of the The ratio of total net debt including investments, underlying financial performance of the business.
finance lease liabilities and cash and overdrafts In determining whether anevent or transaction reported within net assets of disposal groups held is specific, management considers quantitative as for sale to adjusted earnings attributable to equity well as qualitative factors suchas the frequency or shareholders before interest, tax, depreciation and predictability of occurrence.
This ratio is a All specific items are evaluated and approved by the factor in the boards assessment of the financial Groups Audit Committee prior to being separately strength of the Group, and is a key measure of disclosed.
The Group seeks to be balanced when compliance with covenants in respect of the reporting specific items for both debits and credits, Groups borrowing facilities.
and any reversal of an excess provision previously Certain of these financial performance indicators in created as a specific item is recognised consistently as respect of underlying results also form a significant a specific item.
Theassociated tax impact of specific element of performance measurement used in the items is recorded within the specific items tax charge.
determination of performance-related remuneration In addition, tax-specific charges or credits, such as and incentives, as follows: those arising from changes in tax legislation which have a material impact, and which are unrelated to Adjusted PBITA annual bonus plans for senior net specific items, are also included within the specific managers in regional management: items tax charge.
Consistent with the treatment of Operating cash flow annual bonus plans and pre-tax specific items, significant tax charges or credits long-term incentive plan for all senior management that occur, which are not related tocore businesses including executive directors: but which would have a significant impact on the Adjusted earnings annual bonus plans for Groups tax charge, would also be classified as taxexecutive directors and functional directors who specific items.
are members of the Group Executive Committee: and Adjusted EPS growth long-term incentive planforall senior management including executivedirectors.
42 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018
