Strategic report Technology and data Technology anddata Technology, data and advanced analytics are at the heart ofourbusiness proposition.
Through the development of customer-centric technology, weve created an agile, responsive and unified money andloan management platform.
Having built our technology fromscratch, unlike many traditional banks werenot burdened by thechallenges and costsassociated with legacy systems.
We can thereforedevote our resources to developing, innovating and furtherenhancing our bespoketechnology.
In 2018, we began the first stage of unifying all of our geographies on to a single global platform.
We completed themigration of the US platform in 2018, and in 2019 we arelooking to extend this to Germany and the Netherlands, and begin work on the UK.
The sophistication of our Our technology approach embraces agile ways of working, technology helps us attract leading to greater cross-team collaboration and continuous deployment on a daily basis.
We use modern technology andretain the brightest andcoding languages, such as Clojure and Kafka, to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers.
The sophistication of our technology helps us attract and retain the brightest and best technology candidates.
We therefore benefit from an exceptional team of software and data engineers who have a deep understanding of the lending business and customer needs.
As of 31 December 2018, the Technology team including contractors accounted for nearly 30% of our global workforce.
We also apply our technological talent to how we use data tobetter inform credit risk decisions.
Over the past eight years weve built rich proprietary data setson borrowers and borrower performance, based on both internally generated and publicly available sources.
We expect these data sets to be further enhanced by the new Open Banking and PSD2 regulations, which will enable increased sharing of banking data and easier access to new markets.
The Technology team makes up 30% of our globalworkforce 22 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report A virtuous circle that drives continuous improvement and competitive advantage Proprietary data Over the past eight years, weve accumulated proprietary data sets across our various geographies, which weve continuously used toenhance our credit scoring models and improve the borrower experience.
Increased speed offunding By attracting more investors to the platform, were able to increase the speed with which we provide funding toSMEs, which is a core value driver forborrowers.
Improving riskmodel As we accumulate more data through applications and loan performance, were able to improve the precision of our risk models, which leads to higher acceptance rates and lower pricing forborrowers.
Higher loan conversionrate This, in turn, results in higher conversion rates of borrower applications to loans, enabling us to serve a broader population ofSMEs and reduce marketing and processing costs per loan.
Were alsoable to further reduce costs toborrowersand therefore attract moreSMEs to the platform, reinforcing the positive data accumulation cycle.
