18 Galliford Try plc Strategy in action Partnerships & Regeneration Partnerships & Regeneration continued to successfully implement its strategy during the year, helping the business to deliver rapid growth and an improved margin.
1 2 3 1 Grow national footprint We are setting ambitious plans to Our strategy take advantage of the significant We intend to increase our national opportunities in the private rental, footprint by expanding into new mixed-tenure, affordable housing geographies, with the aim of establishing and regeneration sectors to a presence in Yorkshire in the 2018 support our strategy for growth.
Stephen Teagle Our progress Partnerships & Regeneration The acquisition of Drew Smith in May Chief Executive 2017 gave us a high-quality platform in the Southern region.
We are delighted with the progress the business has made since the acquisition last year and, in particular, our success in crystallising the long-term land interests Drew Smith held 1 1.
This has enabled us to enter what we believe is a unique partnering 2.
North West arrangement with Eastleigh Borough 3.
West Midlands Council, through which we will act as master developer and help the council 4.
East Midlands to deliver more than 1,400 new homes.
2 The innovative model allows the council 5.
South West to take a direct role in new housing 6.
West delivery, accelerating the building of 4 new homes for local people.
South East 8 6 Potential operating areas 7 1,400 5 new homes to be built in partnership with Eastleigh Borough Council See Business review p33 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 19 Financial Statements 2018 2 Drive margin improvement by leveraging mixedtenure expertise Our strategy We will grow our mixed-tenure development revenues by continuing to partner with Registered Provider clients and leveraging Linden Homes brand and development skills.
To fund these developments, we will use cash generated by our contracting activities, along with external debt.
Were very pleased to be working This partnership is the first Our progress alongside Galliford Try Partnerships major contract for our recently We have further extended our platform and Rushcliffe Borough Council, established East Midlands team, of joint ventures working with resourced, helping to meet local housing need helping us to further strengthen regionally-focused Registered Providers with high-quality new homes.
our national footprint as a leading to establish strategic partnerships.
Geeta Nanda example, we entered into a joint venture Metropolitan James Warrington with Trafford Housing Trust to deliver Partnerships & 600 homes in Manchester and with Regeneration Board Metropolitan Housing Trust for 171 homes in Nottingham.
3 Unlock partners capacity in sub-markets Our strategy We aim to access the markets for specific tenure products by joining with partners who have the capacity to fund projects, allowing us to share risk.
Areas of opportunity include the private rented sector, private affordable housing, public sector direct commissioning and housing solutions for older people.
Our progress We had two notable successes in working with partners in attractive sub-markets.
In September 2017, Legal & General appointed us to build a 120m buy-to-rent project in Walthamstow, creating 440 one-, twoand three-bedroom homes in a rapidly growing area of London.
In February 2018, we announced our We are very pleased to be working first collaboration with Sigma Capital with Galliford Try Partnerships on our Group, a leading provider of large-scale first project together.
Galliford Try family housing schemes for the private Partnerships and Linden Homes have rented sector.
We will source sites for 120m a well-established reputation for Sigma in the West and South West of delivering high-quality new homes and buy-to-rent project in England and take them through planning we believe that there will be further Walthamstow, creating and construction, creating many hundreds opportunities to unlock additional 440 one-, twoand threeof homes available for private rent.
development projects, especially as bedroom homes in a rapidly we continue our roll-out strategy growing area of London for The PRS REIT plc.
Graham Barnet Sigma Capital Group
