50 Galliford Try plc Directors and Executive Board Our Board N R E E Peter Ventress Peter Truscott Graham Prothero Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointment date: Peter Ventress Appointment date: Peter Truscott was Appointment date: Graham Prothero joined the Board on 30 April 2015 appointed to the Board as Chief Executive was appointed to the Board as Finance and was appointed Chairman on on 1 October 2015.
Career and experience: Peter was Career and experience: Graham was Career and experience: Peter is a formerly Divisional Chairman, South at previously with Development Securities Non-executive Director of Softcat Plc, Taylor Wimpey plc and a member of its plc, a listed property developer and BBA Aviation Plc and Staples Solutions Group Management team.
Peter joined investor in the UK, where he was B. V. He was Chief Executive Officer of George Wimpey in 1984 and worked Finance Director from November 2008.
European textile service business, at CALA Homes from 1993 to 1996, From 2001 until 2008, Graham was a Berendsen plc, from 2010 to 2015. before rejoining George Wimpey, partner with Ernst & Young.
Graham Prior to joining Berendsen, Peter spent where he held a succession of senior is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 10 years in senior management positions management positions.
Accountants and previously held the in Europe and Canada in the office position of Finance Director with Blue products distribution industry with Circle Properties and Taywood Homes.
Corporate Express N. V. becoming Graham is a Non-executive Director Chief Executive in 2007.
In 2008, he was and Chair of the Audit Committee of appointed head of all Staples activities Marshalls plc.
Aged 56. outside the United States and Canada.
Executive Board E E E Kevin Corbett CEng MICE MIStructE Andrew Hammond Bill Hocking General Counsel and Company Secretary Divisional Chairman of Linden Homes Chief Executive of Construction & Investments Appointment date: Kevin Corbett joined Appointment date: Andrew Hammond the Executive Board of Galliford Try plc was appointed to Galliford Trys Executive Appointment date: Bill Hocking was on 1 February 2012 and was appointed Board as Chairman for the West Division appointed to the Executive Board as General Counsel and Company Secretary of Linden Homes on 6 September 2016.
Managing Director of Construction on on 1 March 2012.
1 September 2015 and assumed the Career and experience: Andrew joined the role of Chief Executive of Construction Career and experience: Kevin was Company in April 2015 from Persimmon & Investments with effect from previously Chief Counsel Global for Homes where he held the position of 1 August 2016.
Career and experience: Bill joined the Group from Skanska UK plc, where he held the position of Executive Vice President on the Executive Management Team of Skanska UK from 2008, having initially joined the Company in 1990.
Board composition Balance of non-executive vs Length of appointment Diversity executive directors 0-2 years 1 Non-executive 4 2-5 years 4 Male 5 Executive 2 5-10 years 1 Female 1 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 51 Financial Statements 2018 A N A N R A N R R Terry Miller Gavin Slark Jeremy Townsend Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment date: Gavin Slark was Appointment date: Jeremy Townsend Appointment date: Terry Miller appointed to the Board on 13 May 2015. was appointed to the Board on was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2017.
Career and experience: Gavin is currently 1 February 2014.
Chief Executive Officer of Grafton Career and experience: Jeremy is Career and experience: Terry was Group plc, a publicly quoted distributor currently the Chief Financial Officer previously General Counsel for the of building materials operating in the of Rentokil Initial plc following his London Organising Committee of the merchanting markets in the UK, Ireland, appointment in August 2010 and is a Olympic Games and Paralympic Games the Netherlands and Belgium, in the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered LOCOG.
Terry is currently a Director DIY retailing market in Ireland and in the Accountants of England and Wales.
and Trustee of the Invictus Games mortar manufacturing market in Britain.
Previously, Jeremy was Finance Director Foundation and a Non-executive Director He joined Grafton Group in April 2011 and at Mitchells & Butlers plc and prior to of Goldman Sachs International Bank was appointed Chief Executive Officer in that held various finance roles at and of Rothesay Life plc.
He was previously Group Chief J Sainsbury plc including Corporate LOCOG appointment, Terry was Executive of BSS Group plc, a leading UK Finance Director.
Jeremy began his International General Counsel for distributor to specialist trades including career in audit and corporate finance Goldman Sachs, having spent 17 years the plumbing, heating and construction at Ernst & Young.
Aged 54. with Goldman Sachs based in London.
E E Tom Nicholson Stephen Teagle Divisional Chairman of Linden Homes Chief Executive of Partnerships & Regeneration Appointment date: Tom Nicholson was appointed to Galliford Trys Executive Appointment date: Stephen Teagle Board as Chairman for the East Division was appointed as Chief Executive of of Linden Homes on 6 September 2016.
Partnerships & Regeneration on 1 July 2016, joining Galliford Trys Executive Career and experience: Prior to joining the Board on 6 September 2016.
Company in 1996, Tom held land and sales positions at Ideal Homes and Berkeley Career and experience: Stephen has over Group.
He has held a succession of senior 25 years experience in the regeneration appointments within Linden Homes, and in and affordable housing sectors, joining the four years before joining the Board as Galliford Try from Registered Provider Divisional Managing Director.
DCH, where he was Group Director of Investment and Managing Director of development subsidiary Westco Properties.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee A R N Nomination Committee E Executive Board For updates to the Board since 30 June 2018, please see page 52.
Denotes Chair of respective Committee
