DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report together with the financial statements and independent auditors report for the 53 weeks ended 3 June 2018.
General information Games Workshop Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Games Workshop designs and manufactures miniature figures and games and distributes these through its own network of retail stores, independent retailers and online via the global web stores.
The Group has manufacturing activities in the UK and sells mainly in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
The Company is a public listed company, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Willow Road, Lenton, Nottingham, NG7 2WS, United Kingdom.
The Companys ordinary share capital is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Substantial shareholdings The following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 July 2018 have been disclosed to the Company: No.
of shares % Investec Asset Management Limited 3,087,765 9.6 T H F Kirby 2,134,186 6.6 Schroders plc 1,677,861 5.2 JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited 1,669,075 5.2 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 1,611,343 5.0 Artemis Asset Management LLP 1,588,680 4.9 Working Capital Management Pte Limited 1,555,358 4.8 Ruffer LLP 1,555,198 4.8 FIL 1,516,682 4.7 The Company has not been notified of any other substantial shareholdings.
Dividends Dividends of 126 pence per share 2017: 74 pence were declared during the year 40.6 million: 2017: 23.8 million.
A further dividend of 30 pence per share was declared post year end and was paid before the signing of these financial statements.
Directors The present directors of the Company are listed on page 33.
All of the directors were members of the board throughout the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements with the exception of J R A Brewis who was appointed in June 2018.
As the Company is now part of the FTSE 250 index all directors will now be subject to annual re-election.
J R A Brewis will also be seeking his election since appointment to the board in June 2018.
In relation to the non-executive directors, the chairman has confirmed that, following formal performance evaluation, the performance of C J Myatt and E ODonnell continues to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as non-executive directors, including commitment of the necessary time to board and committee meetings and other duties.
C J Myatt and N J Donaldson are considered by the board to be independent of the Group, as set out in the corporate governance report.
The non-executive directors have formally evaluated the performance of N J Donaldson as non-executive chairman and consider him to be effective in his role.
Directors' interests The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company, together with details of share options granted to the directors, are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 30.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors, as permitted by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, which were in force during the year and up to 30 July 2018.
Information on executive directors K D Rountree age 48, CEO.
Kevin joined Games Workshop in March 1998 as assistant group accountant.
He then had various management roles within Games Workshop, including head of sales for the Other Activities division including Black Library, licensing and Sabertooth Games.
Kevin was appointed CFO in October 2008.
During the year ended 29 May 2011, he took on the responsibility of managing the Groups service centres globally.
To reflect this, his title was changed to chief operating officer from chief financial officer.
He became chief executive on 1 January 2015.
He qualified as a chartered management accountant in August 2001.
Prior to joining Games Workshop, Kevin was the management accountant at J Barbour & Sons Limited and trained at Price Waterhouse.
13 Games Workshop Group PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Information on executive directors continued R F Tongue age 47, group finance director and company secretary.
Rachel joined Games Workshop in September 1996 as group tax manager.
She then had various accounting roles within Games Workshop and was appointed company secretary in October 2008.
She has also managed the legal and compliance functions within Games Workshop since November 2012.
She was appointed group finance director in January 2015.
Rachel qualified as a chartered accountant in 1995 and as a chartered tax adviser in 1996 having trained with Arthur Andersen.
Information on non-executive directors N J Donaldson age 64.
Nick Donaldson was appointed to the board on 18 April 2002 and became non-executive chairman in September 2017.
A barrister by profession, Nick is a partner of London Bridge Capital Partners LLP.
Nick was, until 2003, head of corporate finance at Arbuthnot Securities Limited and previously held senior investment banking positions at Robert W Baird Limited and at Credit Lyonnais Securities.
He is chairman of DP Poland PLC and a director of The Fulham Shore plc.
Chris Myatt is the senior independent director, joining the board on 18 April 1996.
He was formerly managing director of a division of Tarmac PLC, chairman and non-executive director of a number of manufacturing companies and treasurer of Keele University.
Elaine ODonnell was appointed to the board on 28 November 2013.
A chartered accountant by profession, until recently Elaine was a corporate finance partner with EY.
She is also a non-executive director of Findel plc, On the Beach Group plc and the Merseyside Special Investment Fund and chairman of Alliance Fund Managers.
John Brewis was appointed to the board on 20 June 2018.
John has over 25 years experience in high volume manufacturing businesses and since 2004 had various roles within Trinity Mirror Printing, including commercial director.
John is currently managing director of Reach Printing Services, a division of Reach plc, formerly Trinity Mirror plc.
Independent auditors As at 30 July 2018, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Share capital, share rights and other information As at 30 July 2018, the Companys authorised share capital was 2,100,000 divided into 42,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each nominal value ordinary shares.
These ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the right to receive dividends.
Shares acquired through the Companys share schemes rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of share and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if there is a failure to comply with certain requirements of the Companys articles of association.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys articles of associations, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at general meetings of the Company on votes taken on a poll.
On a show of hands at a meeting, every member present in person or by one or more proxies and entitled to vote has one vote.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, if a shareholder is given notice that he has failed to provide information required in relation to any shares pursuant to a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, that member will be unable to vote on those shares both in a general meeting and at a meeting of the shareholders of that class.
If such shareholder holds more than 0.25% of the issued shares of a class excluding treasury shares and is in default of a section 793 notice, the directors may also state in the notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: and ii that there can be no transfer of the shares held by such shareholder.
Subject to the provision of law, the Company may by ordinary resolution declare a dividend to be paid to the members according to their respective rights and interest, but no dividend may exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also declare and pay interim dividends.
Subject to shareholder approval, the directors may pay dividends by issuing shares credited as fully paid up in lieu of cash dividends.
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited and revert to the Company.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Companys articles of association state that a director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing board but so that the total number of directors does not exceed the maximum number of directors allowed pursuant to the Companys articles of association.
The Companys articles of association do not currently specify a maximum number of directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove a director from the board of directors.
