16 Galliford Try plc Strategy in action Linden Homes Linden Homes made further strong progress this year, delivering on its strategic objectives, achieving record financial performance, and preparing for further growth and margin progression.
SOLD 1 2 3 1 Another important initiative is the Increase standardisation introduction of a new IT system.
COINS Construction Industry Solutions is a fully of layouts and processes integrated system offering numerous efficiencies by giving Linden Homes Our strategy complete visibility of the plot throughout We continue to increase the use of its life cycle, from land acquisition, through standardised layouts and improve build and sales, to the end of the customer processes, allowing our teams to build care warranty period.
The system is more efficiently, quickly, to a higher quality, currently being tested on a number of at a lower cost and with shorter lead live sites, with a target of rolling it out times.
This approach helps us to attract across the business by the end of 2019. and retain staff and subcontractors, benchmark performance and increase customer satisfaction.
Our progress We have embraced standardisation and benchmarking across the business.
In particular, we have introduced The Linden Collection, the third generation of standard house types.
The aim is to further optimise development layouts and reduce both our build costs and build 25 programmes, while achieving consistency standard house types make up of design and providing the best space for The Linden Collection family living.
Our original target was for 80% of our homes to be delivered from standard house types.
Within 18 months of launch, 84% of units contained in our 84% current planning applications are based on standard house types.
Of these, 64% of of our homes will use the total are from The Linden Collection.
The Linden Collection The use of standard house types is not restricted to new planning applications.
The substitution of our standard product on existing schemes is also delivering increased margins.
The Copperfields development in Malton is just one example of the difference standardisation has made.
By re-planning the 66 plots using The Linden Collection, we were able to reduce our build costs, increase productivity and, at the same time, The Copperfields development in Malton is just one example offer a better and more saleable home.
of how we are implementing The Linden Collection See Business review p30 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 17 Financial Statements 2018 2 Grow volumes and operating margins from existing and new geographies Our strategy Our current 10 business units each have the capacity to deliver 500 to 600 homes a year, with limited additional overhead.
We therefore have the capacity to deliver our strategic growth plans from our existing office locations.
As previously stated, however, we continue to see 3 scope to extend our geographical coverage, although this is not necessary to achieve our targets to 2021 Implement our land strategy and will therefore be opportunity led.
Our strategy Our progress We intend to maintain a landbank commensurate We increased volumes by 4% to 3,442 units, while with market conditions.
We believe that, in the reducing overheads as a percentage of revenue current climate, a landbank of between 3.0 and from 4.8% to 4.1%, as we benefit from the capacity 3.5 years is appropriate.
We have a target for within our structure and reflecting growth from 2025% of our plots to be delivered from our individual businesses across our operating areas.
We will also We successfully increased our average number of continue to selectively use joint ventures, with active selling sites from 77 to 85.
Registered Providers and other development partners.
This approach enables us to increase our market coverage over a larger number of developments using the same level of investment.
Our progress We have maintained our landbank at circa 3.5 years delivery, with strategic land contributing around 1015% of the current landbank.
The Orchards, Thornbury, exemplifies our approach to strategic land, with a landowner and local community benefiting from proactive promotion by Linden Homes, a developer partner focused on delivering homes.
Having acquired an option on this site in 2014, our planning team identified an opportunity to submit an early planning application due to our detailed understanding of the local authoritys housing need and projected delivery numbers.
Following a period of extensive consultation with all stakeholders, including the town council and the wider local community, a planning application for 125 homes was submitted in January 2015.
Planning consent was achieved in May 2016 and, because of our control over the site via an option agreement which reflected the investment risk of non-allocated land, we were able to agree terms with the landowner at a discount to open market value.
Work on the scheme commenced on site in 2017.
500 to 600 We have the capacity to deliver 500 to 600 units each per year, per business unit Councillors on the planning committee stated that Linden Homes was a developer that actually listened.
