STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy and objectives Games Workshop is committed to making the Warhammer Hobby and our business ever better.
Our ambitions remain clear: to make the best fantasy miniatures in the world, to engage and inspire our customers, and to sell our products globally at a profit.
We intend to do this forever.
Our decisions are focused on long-term success, not short-term gains.
Let me go through our strategy part by part: The first element - we make high quality miniatures.
We understand that what we make is not for everyone, so to recruit and re-recruit customers we are absolutely focused on making our models the best in the world.
In order to continue to do that forever and to deliver a decent return to our owners, we sell them for the price that we believe the investment we have made in quality is worth.
The second element is that we make fantasy miniatures based in our endless, imaginary worlds.
This gives us control over the imagery and styles we use and ownership of the intellectual property IP.
Aside from our core business, we are constantly looking to grow our royalty income from opportunities to use our IP in other markets.
The third element is that we are customer focused.
We aim to communicate in an open, fun way.
Whoever and wherever our customers are, and in whichever way they want to engage with Warhammer, we will do our utmost to support them.
The fourth element is the global nature of our business.
We seek out our customers all over the world.
We believe that our customers carry our Hobby gene and to find them we apply our tried and tested approach of recruiting customers in our own stores, by offering a fantastic customer experience.
Our retail business is supported by our own online store it has the full range of our product and our independent stockist and trade accounts across the world.
These independent accounts do a great job supporting our customers in parts of the world where we either have not yet opened one of our stores or where it is not commercially viable for us to have one.
Our long term goal is to have all three channels retail, trade and online growing in harmony.
We will always have more independent accounts than our own stores.
Our strategy is to grow our business through geographic spread, growing all of the three complementary channels.
The fifth element is being focused on cash.
By delivering a good cash return every year we can continue to innovate, surprise and delight our loyal existing customers and new customers with great product.
To be around forever we also need to invest in both long term capital and short term maintenance projects every year, pay our staff what they have earned for the value they contribute and deliver surplus cash to our shareholders.
Our dedication and focus should ensure we deliver on time and within our agreed cash limits.
We measure our long-term success by seeking a high return on investment.
In the short term, we measure our success on our ability to grow sales whilst maintaining our core business operating profit margin at current levels.
The way we go about implementing this strategy is to recruit the best staff we can by looking for the appropriate attitudes and behaviour each job we do requires and identifying the value that job brings.
It is also important that everyone we employ has a real desire to learn the skills needed to do their job and has a great attitude to change.
We offer all of our staff both personal development and management skills training.
We continue to believe there are great opportunities for growth, particularly in North America, Germany and Asia.
Our brands We have originated and are in control of a number of strong, globally recognised brands with their own identities, associations and logos.
Our consumer facing brand is Warhammer.
We design, make and sell products under a number of brands and sub brands, which denote setting, tone and product type, the key ones being: Warhammer: Age of Sigmar - our unique fantasy setting.
Warhammer 40,000 - our most popular and recognisable brand is a space fantasy setting.
Horus Heresy - an off shoot of Warhammer 40,000, the Horus Heresy is presented as fictional history of that universe.
We believe our IP to be among the best in the world.
The Warhammer settings are incredibly rich and evocative backdrops.
Theyre populated by more than three decades of fantastical characters and comprise of thousands of exciting narratives.
Going forward, we want to make it easier than ever for people to engage with and immerse themselves in our IP.
To that end, I have a small, senior team to help me find new partners to help us bring the worlds of Warhammer to life like never before.
Together, well explore animation, live action and more, while ensuring we do no harm to our core miniatures business.
3 Games Workshop Group PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Business model and structure We design, manufacture, distribute and sell our fantasy miniatures and related products.
These are fantasy miniatures from our own Warhammer 40,000 and Warhammer: Age of Sigmar universes.
Our factory, main distribution centre and back office support functions are all based in Nottingham.
We are an international business centrally run from our HQ in Nottingham, with 76% of our sales coming from outside the UK.
Design Employing 214 people, the design studio in Nottingham creates all the IP and the miniatures, artwork, games and publications that we sell.
In 2017 18 we invested 8.9 million in the studio including software costs with a further 3.1 million spent on tooling for new plastic miniatures.
We are committed to investing in these areas at an appropriate level every year.
Our product We design all of our products at our HQ in Nottingham, with studios of specialist staff dedicated to each element of our offer.
Our miniatures studio concepts and sculpts all of our Warhammer: Age of Sigmar and Warhammer 40,000 models.
The book and box game studio creates all the art, background and rules to support these models.
Finally, our specialist systems design studio is responsible for all aspects of our standalone systems e. g. Blood Bowl, Necromunda.
All of our plastic miniatures are from the Citadel Miniatures studio, and carry this logo: All of our resin models carry this logo: From design to manufacture we are really proud of our products, and these logos are our quality seals.
Alongside these studios, we have two more specialist studios: Black Library and hobby products.
Our publishing studio, Black Library, produces a range of novels, short stories and audios set in the worlds of Warhammer, allowing readers to immerse themselves in the richness of our IP.
The hobby products studio makes some of the best paint and tabletop miniatures support product in the world.
Our Citadel paint range and its revolutionary system are used the world over - and for painting more than just Warhammer!
Manufacture We are proud to manufacture our product in Nottingham.
It's where we started and where we intend to stay.
We are currently expanding the facility to ensure we can make all of the models we need.
We are also working on a significant project, to upgrade our core IT systems that interface with our manufacturing and warehouse systems.
Distribute All of our product is initially distributed from our warehouse facility in Nottingham.
This facility supplies our two hubs in Memphis, Tennessee and Sydney, Australia, and then directly to our trade accounts and retail stores.
Our project to upgrade the IT infrastructure and software for the warehouse that supports our online store, based in Nottingham, was delivered in September 2017.
Sell We sell via three channels, our own stores Retail, third party independent retailers Trade and our online store.
We also sell or rather generate income, via our licensing partners.
We support these channels and activities via our marketing team.
Retail - provides the focus for the Warhammer Hobby in their areas.
Our stores only stock Games Workshop product.
They are where we recruit the majority of our new customers.
To do so the stores don't offer the full range of our product, only new release product and the appropriate extended range.
At the year end we had 489 Games Workshop stores in 23 countries.
Our stores contributed 37% of the year's sales.
We have 379 one man stores, small sites, each one staffed by only one store manager.
We also have 110 multi-man stores, which are constantly reviewed to ensure they remain profitable.
If not, they will be closed and probably replaced with one man stores.
4 Games Workshop Group PLC Business model and structure continued Sell continued Trade - we sell to third party retailers under closely controlled terms and conditions.
They help us sell our products around the world and importantly in areas where we don't have our own stores.
Independent retailers are an integral part of our business model: Games Workshop strives to support those outlets which help to build the Warhammer Hobby community in their local area.
The bulk of these sales are made via our telesales teams based in Memphis and Nottingham.
We also have small telesales teams in Sydney, Tokyo, Shanghai, Singapore, Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur.
In 2017 18 we had 4,100 independent retailers 2017: 3,900 in 66 countries.
We strive to deliver excellent service, operating in 21 languages covering all time zones.
43% of our sales came from sales to independent retailers in the year reported.
Online - accounted for 20% of total sales in 2017 18, this includes our online store, games-workshop.
com which allows everyone the world over full access to all Games Workshop product.
All of our stores also have a web store terminal that allows our customers shopping in our retail stores access to the full range.
It is run centrally from Nottingham.
Licensing - we grant licences to a number of carefully chosen partners.
This allows us to leverage our IP to broaden the presence and brand exposure of Warhammer around the world, often entering new markets such as board games, apparel or accessories.
It also allows us to generate additional income, currently principally from computer games sales in North America, the UK and Continental Europe.
Marketing - keeps us customer focused.
This team acts as the bridge between our other business areas, ensuring we have a joined up approach between product design to manufacture and sales.
Marketing spends a lot of time listening and developing a two way dialogue with our customers to make sure we keep their needs at the forefront, championing the Warhammer Hobby around the globe and injecting our content and communications with a real sense of passion and fun.
Structure We control the business centrally from Nottingham: it is where the people with experience and knowledge of running our business work.
I have put in place a flat structure: the people with senior responsibility who make all of the big decisions report directly to me.
My team is split into seven parts: design to manufacture, sales, merchandising and logistics, marketing, operations and support, systems and IP exploitation.
We have a global head of design and manufacturing who is responsible for our factory and design studios miniatures, book and box games, specialist systems, hobby product and Black Library.
Our channel sales structure comprises retail, trade and online.
This structure is made up of four key territory retail sales managers in the UK, North America, Continental Europe, and Australia and New Zealand.
We also have a global head of trade and a global head of online along with a sales manager for Asia.
A global head of digital and community marketing and a global head of merchandising and logistics support our sales channels with appropriate internal and external communication.
The global head of merchandising and logistics also manages our three main distribution hubs in Nottingham, Memphis and Sydney.
Our operations and support structure includes a finance director for Games Workshop who is responsible for accounts, compliance, licensing and legal duties.
A personnel manager and a personal development manager ensure we take our people recruitment and development seriously.
Our global head of IT ensures we invest in our core systems as well as consider how we can leverage technology to help us deliver our long-term goals.
Key performance indicators The board and management team use a number of key performance indicators to provide a consistent method of analysing performance, in addition to allowing the board to benchmark performance against our forecast.
The key performance indicators utilised by the board can be split into key financial performance indicators and key non-financial performance indicators.
Our key financial performance indicators are: Moving Annual Total MAT sales growth by channel Measures the sales growth achieved in each of our channels on a rolling 12 month basis: see page 9.
MAT Group gross margin Measures the gross profit achieved on sales after taking account of the direct costs and depreciation of manufacturing equipment and shipping our product to customers stores on a rolling 12 month basis: see page 7.
Year to date core business operating profit percentage The ratio of core business operating profit before royalty income against revenue, as a percentage: see page 6.
MAT core business profit Measures gross profit less operating expenses on a 12 month rolling basis, before royalty income: see page 9.
Number of own stores by territory Measures the number of our own stores which is an indicator of our global reach: see page 10.
5 Games Workshop Group PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Key performance indicators continued MAT number of ordering stockist accounts by territory Measures the number of trade outlets that have ordered from us in the last six months.
It is an indicator of our global reach and the health of our trade account base: see Trade paragraph on page 5.
Return on capital The ratio of operating profit before royalty income against capital employed, as a percentage: see page 9.
Our key non-financial performance indicators are: Product quality This is an indicator of the effectiveness of our design studio and our continuous improvement in design to manufacture.
We measure this by looking at sell through.
If the product is great we sell a lot, if not we sell very few.
Outstanding customer service This is an indicator of the effectiveness and efficiency of the service experience customers get in our stores and the time it takes us to resolve a customer query made to our customer service teams.
The former is measured by the number of complaints I receive - very few - and the latter by five micro KPIs.
Our approach is to treat all customers fairly and to do our utmost to successfully resolve their issues.
Shareholder value We believe shareholder value is created, primarily, by not destroying it.
We have no intention to acquire other companies, nor to dispose of any of those we own.
We return our surplus cash to our owners and try to do so in ever increasing amounts.
Graphs of shareholder value Shareholder value for this graph is calculated as the price of our shares at year end plus the dividend per share declared in the year.
Our business and our Warhammer Hobby are in great shape, the best shape either has been for some time and as we stride in to the year ahead with more energy, ideas and drive, its clear to me that were only just getting started.
It has been another exciting year building on the progress we have made over the last few years.
We have surpassed the expectations which I set the business on appointment in January 2015, so I have set the bar higher: exciting times.
I am pleased to report record constant currency sales, profit, cash generation and returns to shareholders.
It has taken a long time to reach 200m sales, and at a record 29% core operating profit percentage rate, weve proven again we can grow sales, maintain our gross margin and manage our costs at the same time.
It also shows clearly our operational gearing.
This has only been possible through the hard work and commitment of the entire Games Workshop global team.
Im incredibly thankful for and proud of their efforts - as they should be themselves.
6 Games Workshop Group PLC pence per share Review of the year continued Our passion for Games Workshop and unwavering focus have delivered profitable sales growth for the second year running across all of our sales channels.
There have been no silver bullets, more the relentless pursuit of designing, making and selling an ever better range of Warhammer miniatures.
Together, we have remained focused on documenting and executing an exciting global operational plan covering all areas of the business.
Weve driven improvements in product quality, the number of new products we launch in a year, provided the highest levels of customer service and delivered online content in a tone thats given us and our customers a very broad smile.
We are doing our best to make it sustainable.
However, we are now in unchartered waters, doing everything we can to ensure our success is maintained.
The challenge of managing global sales volume growth at the same time as delivering a step change in our capacity not forgetting delivering major IT projects is, I hope you appreciate, a fair challenge.
Ive strengthened my senior team, adding broader skills in IT and merchandising and logistics and added over 20 additional heads in operations, support and marketing.
It would be unrealistic, if not daft, of me to promise that we can continue to grow at the rates we have reported over the last two years.
I am not, however, planning to scale down our ambitions, I am just informing you of the back drop.
Capacity Manufacturing We have accelerated our investment in manufacturing capacity during the year as well as improved our logistics and distribution service levels.
These will, alongside our investment in people and technology, lay the foundation for future volume growth.
In the year we purchased two acres of land at the cost of 1.7 million next to our HQ in Nottingham and later this year will have redeveloped this site to increase our manufacturing capacity as well as improve our R&D capabilities.
The total capital cost of this new facility including the purchase of the land will be approximately 9 million.
Our manufacturing investment included doubling the number of plastic injection moulding machines as well as flexing up our average production staffing levels from 143 to 198 at our HQ site in Nottingham.
Production payroll costs have increased by 2.0 million to 5.9 million: as a percentage of Group revenue they have increased from 2.5% to 2.7%.
Logistics In the short term we have increased our warehouse footprint, using a third party location nearby, to enable us to maintain our fill rates and service levels.
We are currently recruiting a group logistics manager who, together with our great operational team, will help us document and implement an appropriate warehousing solution at Nottingham, Memphis and Sydney.
Total warehousing costs have increased by 2.5 million to 6.7 million, as a percentage of Group revenue they have increased from 2.6% to 3.0%.
Design studios Our design studios have been at the forefront of our success.
We are very proud of the quality of our models, Citadel and Forge World, and the quality seal they represent.
In the period we launched a new edition of Warhammer 40,000.
The launch month, June 2017, reached new heights for us, which was no real surprise as the models and supporting gaming mechanics were better than ever.
In the year, we also continued to surprise and delight our customers with additional specialist games like our bestselling standalone box game Necromunda.
Another such title, Adeptus Titanicus, is coming in 2018 19.
If 2017 18 wasnt exciting enough, for our Warhammer fantasy fans we launched Warhammer Underworlds, an action-packed combat game for two players.
We finished in May 2018 with the announcement of a spectacular relaunch of our Warhammer: Age of Sigmar.
Gross margin declined in the year 2018: 71.4%: 2017: 72.4%, as a direct result of some of the teething problems a step change in volumes brings.
It has also been affected by the sales mix of new and existing product - 38% of sales from new releases and 62% of sales from existing product - as well channel mix change.
Inventories have increased by 7.7 million to meet the increased sales demand.
Stock provision has increased to 1.8% of sales 2017: 0.9%.
We continue to offer a broad range of price points and we have maintained our policy of aiming to only increase the prices of our new releases to reflect the necessary investment in our product quality.
The annual impact of this increase on our UK RRP price list is an average increase of 3%.
Costs have increased in the year.
This has been driven by investment in our store opening programme, which has partially helped us to deliver organic sales growth by expanding into new geographic locations, and our centrally managed operations and support teams.
As a direct result of our significant sales and profit growth, we rewarded all of our staff with a 1,500 discretionary payment in addition to a 1,000 profit share payment each total cost 4.8 million.
We also honoured our commitment to pay 20% of any sales increase to our retail store managers total cost 2.9 million who achieved sales growth whilst maintaining costs broadly in-line with last year.
Update on priorities for 2017 18 In the year, we focused on the following initiatives designed to improve our performance in our existing stores and deliver organic sales growth through store openings: Staff recruitment The support we get from our people is the main reason why we are performing better than historical trends and we are always looking for great people to join our global team.
The jobs, which have the highest churn rate, are our new business developers trade sales and our store managers in our own retail stores.
In 2016 17 a project team was set up to deliver an improvement in the online recruitment tools we use.
The two main areas covered by the project team were rebranding our global recruitment website and implementing an applicant tracking system.
Both the recruitment website and applicant tracking system were launched in April 2018.
7 Games Workshop Group PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Update on priorities for 2017 18 continued Range We focused on the following initiatives to deliver an improvement in our product offer, our customer service and how we promote our product range: In February 2018 I recruited a global head of merchandising and logistics who is responsible for helping us build a world class merchandising function, focused on improving our stock allocation and replenishment by being more data driven.
His team will also be more integrated with our logistics team, helping us better meet our customers expectations in terms of what stock they can buy, how their orders can be fulfilled and where it can be delivered to.
At the heart of our range is our core IP and the core product lines that support them.
We are committed every year to further extending the Warhammer worlds through great products.
All of our studios have increased their output, ensuring that whatever facet of Warhammer a customer enjoys or whatever faction they collect theyve had, and will continue to be offered, something great to engage with.
We have also been working on some new initiatives to help introduce people to Warhammer: Space Marine Heroes - Our push off the frame, push fit miniatures, sold as blind collectibles, placed in over 250 new outlets in Japan.
The series launches globally later this year along with series 2 in Japan.
Partworks - We learnt a great deal from the Battle Games in Middle-earth partwork launched back in 2002.
And some of those lessons were painful!
Now though, I think we are in the best position weve ever been to have another go.
Warhammer 40,000 Conquest, a serialised product, will launch this summer.
Our licensing team too have been doing their best to broaden our reach.
Ive changed their terms of engagement with partners and allowed them to experiment.
Theyve taken to this challenge well - exploring new types of licences, with new types of products, and in new markets.
Its early days, and its clear were still finding our feet.
The goal, though, is to find some great long term partners who we can work with to bring exceptional licensed products to market.
We want to work with skilled people at the top of their game who can help bring our Warhammer brands to a new audience and provide the world class quality needed to delight our existing customers.
Marketing Customer focused We have a great, global community who are both loyal and passionate.
Over the last six months we have again doubled the number of customers interacting with us on social media.
Weve supported these customers with daily content for Warhammer: Age of Sigmar and Warhammer 40,000, and increased our video output to more than one video every day, reaching over 100,000 people per day.
Weve also continued to develop warhammer-community.
com and created new brand content sites.
In the last six months alone, our content has had 16.3 million views from 2.5 million users, and this increase shows no sign of stopping.
When we say marketing at GW, we mean informing, engaging and inspiring our global community.
Our commitment to talking with our customers has never been stronger, and their response never more positive.
com has become the real home of Warhammer content online, with over 70 million page views in 2017 18 from almost 5 million users supported by tens of millions of interactions on social media.
In addition to the business end of marketing, Ive also allowed our team some space to have some fun.
They certainly made the most of the opportunity: a Christmas video featuring a choir was followed by a goldfish related product tease and some chocolate Space Marines on April Fools Day.
With well over 1 million views, they certainly helped reinforce a message of a GW that doesnt take itself too seriously.
Licensing The team has had another solid year thanks to the on-going successes of Total War: Warhammer, and Warhammer: Vermintide 2.
Reported income is split as follows: 89% PC and console games, 7% mobile and 4% other.
Projects In the year we had two major projects being implemented: Warhammer 40,000 product launch in June 2017.
European ERP - enterprise resource planning core back office systems - replacement.
We have moved to a more agile methodology for implementing the solution and some of the initial phases are now live.
Our global head of IT has overseen this change.
Project estimated cost of 8 million.
During the year our return on capital increased from 72% to 120%.
This was driven by an increase in operating profit before royalty income, offset slightly by an increase in average capital employed.
Sales Sales by segment 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 June 2018 28 May 2017 3 June 2018 28 May 2017 2018 2017 Constant Constant Actual Actual % of total % of total currency currency rates rates Sales sales Trade 96.2m 61.3m 94.3m 61.3m 43% 39% Retail 82.5m 64.8m 82.0m 64.8m 37% 41% Online 43.9m 32.0m 43.6m 32.0m 20% 20% Total sales 222.6m 158.1m 219.9m 158.1m Reported sales grew by 39% to 219.9 million for the year.
On a constant currency basis, sales were up by 41% from 158.1 million to 222.6 million.
Operating profit Operating profit by segment 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 June 2018 28 May 2017 3 June 2018 28 May 2017 Constant Constant Actual Actual currency currency rates rates Trade 33.3m 18.0m 32.9m 18.0m Retail 6.7m 0.5m 7.2m 0.5m Online 27.9m 18.8m 27.9m 18.8m Product and supply 25.1m 16.3m 23.9m 16.3m Royalties net of costs 9.4m 6.9m 9.1m 6.9m Other costs 26.3 m 22.2 m 26.4 m 22.2 m Total operating profit 76.1m 38.3m 74.6m 38.3m Core business operating profit operating profit before royalty income grew by 33.9 million to 64.7 million 2017: 30.8 million.
On a constant currency basis, core business operating profit increased by 35.7 million to 66.5 million.
This was driven by improvements across all of our three main channels.
Costs have been managed well.
They have increased by 8.8 million in the year as a result of investments for the long term: 3.0 million in our store opening programme and 1.1 million in our operations, support and marketing teams.
We also incurred additional performance related costs of 1.1 million in payments to our retail staff for delivering growth and paid an additional 1.4 million in profit share and discretionary bonus paid equally to all staff.
Variable costs directly attributable to sales volume growth increased by 1.6 million in the year.
Capital employed Average capital employed increased by 11.0 million to 53.9 million.
The book value of tangible and intangible assets increased by 6.1 million, inventories increased by 5.2 million and trade and other receivables increased by 2.1 million whilst current liabilities increased by 2.4 million.
We use average capital employed to take account of the significant fluctuation in working capital which occurs as the business builds both inventories and trade receivables in the pre-Christmas trading period.
Return is defined as pre-exceptional operating profit before royalty income, and the average capital employed is adjusted by deducting assets and adding back liabilities in respect of cash, borrowings, exceptional provisions, taxation, deferred royalty income and dividends.
9 Games Workshop Group PLC STRATEGIC REPORT continued Cash generation During the year, the Groups core operating activities generated 66.0 million of cash after tax payments 2017: 38.5 million.
The Group also received cash of 8.9 million in respect of royalties in the year 2017: 8.8 million.
After purchases of tangible and intangible assets and product development costs of 21.5 million 2017: 12.8 million, dividends of 38.7 million 2017: 23.8 million, group profit share and discretionary payments to employees of 4.8 million 2017: 3.4 million, proceeds from the issue of ordinary share capital relating to the sharesave scheme of 1.0 million 2017: 0.1 million and foreign exchange losses of 0.1 million 2017: gains of 0.6 million there were net funds at the year end of 28.5 million 2017: 17.9 million.
Investments in assets This is what we have been spending your money on: 2018 2017 million million Shop fits for new and existing stores 1.4 1.3 Production equipment and tooling 8.8 3.3 Computer equipment and software 2.6 2.4 Lenton site 3.3 0.1 Total capital additions 16.1 7.1 In 2017 18 we invested 1.4 million in shop fits: 43 new stores and 7 refurbishments.
We also invested 4.4 million in tooling, milling and injection moulding machines and a further 3.1 million on moulding tools.
The investment in computer software relates mainly to the work on the new ERP system.
The investment in Lenton site includes the purchase of land 1.7 million and building costs to expand the site.
Capital investment is expected to be higher than depreciation and amortisation over the next few years as we increase our production capacity and upgrade our core back office systems in Nottingham.
Dividends We followed our principle of returning truly surplus cash to shareholders.
Dividends of 40.6 million 2017: 23.8 million were declared during the year.
A dividend of 9.6 million was declared and paid after the year end.
Royalty income Royalty income increased in the year by 2.4 million to 9.9 million.
This was due to the strong performances of Total War: Warhammer II and Warhammer: Vermintide 2.
Taxation The effective tax rate for the year was 19.9% 2017: 20.5%.
We continue to expect a rate above that for a business with activities based solely in the UK, due to higher overseas tax rates.
Sales by channel 37% 2017: 41% of sales were made through our own stores, 43% 2017: 39% of sales were to independent retailers and 20% 2017: 20% were online.
Retail Store openings and closures during the year: Number of stores Number of stores Number of one man Number of one man at 28 May 2017 Opened Closed at 3 June 2018 stores at 3 June 2018 stores at 28 May 2017 UK 147 6 9 144 104 114 North America 111 25 2 134 119 96 Continental Europe 145 6 3 148 103 100 Australia 47 3 2 48 39 39 Asia 12 3 - 15 14 11 462 43 16 489 379 360 We opened 43 new stores in the year including 10 relocated stores shown within both the opened and closed store numbers above.
These new stores generated 2.6 million of profitable sales.
Our main focus for store openings in the year ahead will be North America and Germany.
We will continue to focus on improving our existing store performance.
Retail sales grew by 27% in the year 27% at constant currency, helped by additional growth from 27 net new stores and our visitor centre delivering 20% growth.
We continue to fine tune our skills based training for all of our store managers at our retail workshops.
Trade Sales increased by 54% during the year 57% at constant currency.
We delivered growth in every major country we sell our products in thanks to the hard work of our telesales teams in Memphis, Nottingham and Sydney.
Sales to trade accounts which sell primarily online continue to perform well.
10 Games Workshop Group PLC Online Sales grew by 36% 37% at constant currency.
Sales of our Forge World range grew by 4% and our Citadel range by 52%.
We are committed to continuous investment in our online shopping experience.
Treasury The objective of our treasury operation is the cost effective management of financial risk.
The relationship with the Groups bank is managed centrally.
It operates within a range of board approved policies.
No transactions of a speculative nature are permitted.
Funding and liquidity risk The Group pays for its operations entirely from our cash flow.
Interest rate risk Net interest payable for the year excluding unwinding of discounts on provisions was 49,000 2017: net interest receivable 83,000.
Foreign exchange Our big currency exposures are the euro and US dollar: euro US dollar 2018 2017 2018 2017 Year end rate used for the balance sheet 1.14 1.15 1.33 1.28 Average rate used for earnings 1.13 1.17 1.35 1.27 The net impact in the year of these exchange rate fluctuations on our operating profit was a decrease of 1.5 million 2017: increase of 7.0 million.
Gender diversity, greenhouse gases, social, community and human rights, and employees We report on these topics in the directors report on pages 15 and 16.
Priorities for 2018 19 As part of our overall strategy, four key initiatives will be prioritised in 2018 19.
These are designed to deliver further sales growth whilst maintaining our operating profit margin.
Firstly, staff recruitment and training.
We are continuing with our investment in our global people systems to help us support our staff.
We are focusing on online service tools to improve our onboarding, e-learning, performance management and how we communicate with our staff.
Secondly, recruiting new customers and retaining customers in our Warhammer Hobby: Open more of our own stores, mostly in our one man store format in North America and in Germany.
My goal is to open 25 stores net in 2018 19.
This will be based on our well established terms and conditions, selling independent accounts our best selling products and, where appropriate, the extended range.
The goal is to sell our products where our customers want to shop.
We will also be updating our online service tools to ensure all of our third party accounts get outrageous customer service and support.
Continue to improve our digital marketing and customer engagement.
Thirdly, we will continue to focus on recruiting new customers and retaining our existing customers for longer.
We will continue to review our core product range to ensure we have the right products in the right place at the right time.
We have significantly increased the number of new releases supporting our core systems in the last few years and this will continue in 2018 19.
We will also pilot some new product formats in new markets and look to broaden our brand awareness in Asia.
Finally, we are investing in core systems and our manufacturing and warehousing capacity: UK - our ongoing investment in a new European ERP system UK - a new extension of our manufacturing facility at our HQ in Nottingham North America - the upgrade of our warehousing systems and software at our site in Memphis, Tennessee UK - Upgrade of our digital asset management system 11 Games Workshop Group PLC
