Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 73 Financial Statements 2018 Directors report The directors present their Annual Report There are no restrictions on the transfer of Results, dividends and capital and audited financial statements for the the Companys shares, with the exceptions The pre-exceptional profit for the year, Group for the year ended 30 June 2018. that certain shares held by the EST are net of tax, of 188.7m is shown in the restricted for the duration of the consolidated income statement on page Principal activities applicable performance periods under 82.
The directors have recommended a relevant Group share plans, and directors Galliford Try is a leading housebuilding, final dividend of 49.0p per share, which, and persons discharging managerial regeneration and construction group, together with the interim dividend of responsibilities are periodically restricted primarily operating in the UK.
Galliford Try 28.0p declared in February, results in a in dealing in the Companys shares under plc, registered in England and Wales with total dividend for the financial year of the Groups share dealing policy which company number 00836539, is the Parent 77.0p.
The total dividend for the financial reflects the requirements of the Market Company of the Group.
More detailed year will distribute a sum of 77.7m.
In certain specific information regarding the Groups Subject to approval by shareholders at circumstances, the directors are permitted activities during the year under review, the AGM, the final dividend will be payable to decline to register a transfer in and its future prospects, is provided on on 5 December 2018 to shareholders accordance with the Articles.
The principal subsidiaries on the register at close of business on other limitations on holdings of securities, and joint ventures operating within the 9 November 2018. and no requirements to obtain the Groups businesses are shown in notes approval of the Company, or other holders 13 and 37 to the financial statements.
Please refer to page 29 for an overview of of shares in the Company, prior to the the Groups capital structure and funding.
The Company is not aware Strategic Report Share capital, authorities of any agreements between holders of The Group is required by section 414A shares that may result in restrictions on and restrictions of the Companies Act 2006 to present a the transfer of shares or voting rights.
Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
The Company has one class of ordinary This can be found on pages 1 to 49. share capital, having a nominal value of There are no shares carrying specific rights 50p.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to control of the Company, The Strategic Report contains an in respect of voting and participation and with the exception that the EST holds indication of the directors view on likely are listed for trading on the Main shares in the Company in connection with future developments in the business Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Group share plans which have rights with of the Group.
In addition, following the At 30 June 2018, the Company had regard to control of the Company that are introduction of the EU Non-Financial 111,028,162 ordinary shares in issue not exercisable directly by the employee.
Votes may be The EST abstains from voting in respect Report also provides direction on where exercised at general meetings of the of any shares so held.
The EST currently information on the impact of activities Company by members in person, holds 0.34% of the issued share capital on employees, social and environmental by proxy or by corporate representatives of the Company for the purposes of matters, human rights and anti-corruption in relation to corporate members.
satisfying employee share options or and anti-bribery matters can be found The Articles of Association of the share awards 2017: 0.45%.
within the Annual Report and financial Company the Articles provide a deadline statements, as well as a description of for the submission of proxy forms Articles of Association the Groups policies and where these electronically or by paper of not less than The Articles, adopted in 2009 to reflect are located.
48 hours before the time appointed for the Companies Act 2006, set out the the holding of the general meeting or the The Corporate Governance Report on internal regulations of the Company, adjourned meeting as the case may be.
pages 52 to 59 is the corporate governance and define various aspects of the statement for the purposes of Disclosure Companys constitution including the The directors are authorised on an annual Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. rights of shareholders, procedures for the basis to issue shares, to allot a limited appointment and removal of directors, The Annual Report and Financial number of shares in the Company for and the conduct of both directors and Statements use financial and non-financial cash other than to existing shareholders, general meetings.
KPIs wherever possible and appropriate.
and to make market purchases of shares within prescribed limits.
The current In accordance with the Articles, directors authorities are set out in the 2017 AGM can be appointed or removed either by notice.
Resolutions to be proposed at the Board or shareholders in general the 2018 AGM will renew all three of the meeting.
Amendments to the Articles directors standing authorities relating to require the approval of shareholders in share capital, which are further explained general meeting expressly by way of in the Notice of 2018 AGM sent separately special resolution.
Copies of the Articles to shareholders.
During the year, the are available by contacting the General Company undertook a one for three rights Counsel and Company Secretary at issue of 27,741,204 new ordinary shares the registered office.
Other than the rights issue and usual activity in connection with the Groups share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased by the Company under the relevant authorities either during the financial year or to the date of this Annual Report.
74 Galliford Try plc Directors report continued The Group gives full and fair consideration Significant direct and Board and directors interests to applications for employment from indirect holdings and indemnities disabled persons, having regard to their As at 12 September 2018, being the date Summary biographies of the Board particular aptitudes and abilities.
We carry of this Annual Report, the Company had directors as at 30 June 2018 are on out regular workplace assessments and been made aware, pursuant to the FCAs pages 50 and 51.
During the year, provide occupational health checks and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Jeremy Townsend joined the Board as a advice to support both employees and line Rules, of the following beneficial interests Non-executive Director on 1 September managers.
Appropriate arrangements in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary 2017.
Andrew Jenner and Ishbel are made for the continued training and share capital: Macpherson stepped down from employment, career development and the Board on 10 November 2017. promotion of disabled persons.
If existing Shareholder Interest % capital Marisa Cassoni joined the Board on members of staff become disabled, BlackRock, Inc 13,445,812 12.11 1 September 2018 as a Non-executive the Group endeavours to continue Director and it is intended she will become employment, either in the same or an Standard Life Chair of the Remuneration Committee alternative position with appropriate Aberdeen plc 7,692,836 6.93 on publication of the Groups half year retraining and occupational assistance Brewin Dolphin results in February 2019.
There have been being given if necessary.
Limited 4,152,227 4.99 no other changes to the Board, either Employee engagement and consultation during or since the financial year end.
There were no material changes in any of is encouraged through the use of regular The interests of the directors in the share the significant holdings from 30 June 2018 informal discussions and feedback, formal capital of the Company are set out in the to the date of this Annual Report.
annual appraisals, business unit staff Directors Remuneration Report on page forums and periodic employee surveys.
Change of control provisions 70, and details of executive directors Details of where to find information service contracts and non-executive The only agreements likely to have a regarding the Groups employees, directors letters of appointment can be significant impact on the Groups remuneration policies, employment found on page 63. operations in the event of any change practices and employee involvement of control of the Company continue to The Company operates a formal ongoing is provided in the Strategic Report on relate to the Groups revolving credit procedure for the disclosure, review and pages 1 to 49 and the Remuneration Policy facility and surety arrangements, authorisation of directors actual and and Report on pages 60 to 72.
Details of details of which are set out in the potential conflicts of interest, in where to find information on other notes to the financial statements.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. matters of importance to stakeholders In addition, conflicts of interest are such as environmental, social and All of the Groups share plans contain reviewed and, as necessary, authorised community matters, human rights and provisions relating to a change of control.
by the Board on an annual basis.
Details of anti-corruption and anti-bribery, related The respective plan rules permit Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policies and their impact can also be outstanding awards to vest on a and qualifying third-party indemnities are found in the Strategic Report.
proportional basis and then become given on page 55 of the Corporate exercisable in the event of a change of Governance Report.
Significant agreements control, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions and Except for the agreements underpinning Employees the prior approval of the Remuneration the Groups revolving credit facility and The Group is committed to employment Committee.
Other than in relation to share its debt private placement, there are no policies which follow best practice based schemes as described above, the Group persons with which it has contractual or on equal opportunities for all employees, has not entered into any agreements with other arrangements which are essential to irrespective of sex, race, age, ethnicity, its directors or employees which provide its business.
religion, disability or marital status.
for compensation for loss of office or We value everyone as an individual, Charitable and political donations employment in the event of a takeover or recognising that everyone is different and change of control of the Company.
For information regarding charitable has different needs at work.
We respect donations made through employees The agreements governing the peoples differences and treat everyone volunteering or donation of materials, Groups joint ventures all have appropriate with dignity and respect.
We aim to create please refer to the Strategic Report on change of control provisions, none of a culture in which everyone feels valued page 48. which is significant in the context of as an individual and is motivated to give the wider Group.
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature and accordingly none were made during the financial year.
The Group notes the wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, but does not consider the housebuilding and construction industry bodies of which it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 75 Financial Statements 2018 Emissions Independent auditor Details of the Groups carbon dioxide Each of the directors at the date of emissions for the financial year have been approval of this Annual Report included on page 47 and are included by confirms that: reference in this report.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Creditor payment policy the auditor is unaware: and Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment terms contractually the director has taken all steps that he with suppliers and land vendors, ensure she ought to have taken as a director in the relevant terms of payment are order to make himself herself aware of included in contracts, and to abide by any relevant audit information and to those terms when satisfied that goods, establish that the Companys auditor is services or assets have been provided in aware of that information.
accordance with the agreed contractual This confirmation is given and should be terms.
In November 2013, the Group interpreted in accordance with section became a signatory to the Prompt 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Payment Code which contains, among other things, commitments to pay A resolution is to be proposed at the suppliers within agreed contract terms.
forthcoming AGM for the re-appointment of  LLP as Financial instruments auditor of the Company, at a rate of Further information regarding the Groups remuneration to be determined by the financial instruments including interest Audit Committee.
rate hedges, related policies and a consideration of its liquidity and other AGM financing risks can be found in the financial The AGM will be held at the offices of review from page 26, and in note 26 to the CMS Cameron McKenna Nabarro financial statements.
Olswang LLP, Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London, EC4N 6AF on 9 November Important developments since 2018 at 10.30am.
The notice convening year end the AGM, sent to shareholders separately, There have been no material events or explains the items of business which are developments affecting the Company not of a routine nature.
or any of its operating subsidiaries since Fair, balanced and understandable 30 June 2018.
In accordance with the principles of the Going concern 2016 Code and as further described In accordance with the Financial Reporting on pages 57 and 58, the Group has Councils Guidance on Going Concern arrangements in place to ensure that and Liquidity published in 2009, the the information presented in this requirements of the 2016 Code and Listing Annual Report is fair, balanced and Rule 9.8.
6 3, the directors have conducted understandable.
The directors consider, a rigorous and proportionate assessment on the advice of the Audit Committee, of the Groups ability to continue in that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, existence for the foreseeable future.
is fair, balanced and understandable and This has been reviewed during the financial provides the information necessary for year and the directors have concluded shareholders to assess the Companys that there are no material uncertainties performance, position, business model that may cast significant doubt on the and strategy.
Companys ability to continue as a going Approval of report concern.
Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources and visibility as to This Directors report, the Strategic its future workload, as explained in this Report on pages 1 to 49 and the Annual Report.
It is therefore justified in Corporate Governance and Directors using the going concern basis in preparing Remuneration Reports on pages 52 to 73, these financial statements.
were approved by the Board of directors on 12 September 2018.
For and on behalf of the Board Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 12 September 2018
