DIRECTORS REPORT continued Employees continued With effect from April 2016, the Group adopted the UK Living Wage for all UK employees, regardless of age.
The Group operates an employee sharesave scheme as a means of further encouraging the involvement of employees in the Group's performance.
The Group's policy is to consider, for recruitment, disabled workers for those vacancies that they are able to fill.
All necessary assistance with training courses is given.
Once employed, a career plan is developed so as to ensure suitable opportunities for each disabled person.
Arrangements are made, wherever possible, for retraining employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities.
Diversity The board has noted the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code to strengthen the principle of boardroom diversity.
The board believes that business can benefit from a wide range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as regards composition of the board is that it should have a balance of attitudes and knowledge to enable each director and the board as a whole to discharge their duties effectively.
Consideration is given to diversity and gender across the Group with a view to appointing the best placed individual for each new job.
The Company does not, however, consider that diversity can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets.
As at 3 June 2018, the workforce is comprised as follows: Male Female Total The board 3 2 5 Senior management 8 2 10 Total workforce 1,530 377 1,907 Social, community and human rights The Group has policies that encompass a set of global sourcing principles covering fair terms of employment, human rights, health and safety, equal opportunities and good environmental practice.
We seek to work with suppliers who adopt an ethical approach to human rights, working conditions and the environment in line with our own values.
Our buyers are required to review supplier compliance with these policies, identify any areas of non-conformance and take action where appropriate.
The Group monitors the quality and availability of all sourced components to ensure high standards are maintained.
Employees continue to carry out fund raising events for their chosen charities.
Our policy is to not make cash donations to charities, however, we are fully supportive of the work our employees do.
There are no donations to political parties.
Anti-bribery Bribery and corrupt practices are never tolerated in the pursuit of Games Workshops business objectives or goals, or within business relationships, or the actions of its employees and associated parties.
This commitment is driven from the CEO and board throughout the entire Group and a commitment is expected of all who work with the Group and who act on our behalf or are employed or engaged in any capacity by us.
The Games Workshop Anti-Bribery Policy reflects Games Workshops zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery.
Anti-slavery Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
Games Workshop has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and is committed to acting ethically to implement and enforce effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place within Games Workshop or its supply chains.
This commitment is driven from the CEO and the board throughout the entire Group and a commitment is expected of all who work for, or who supply into, Games Workshop.
The Games Workshop Anti-Slavery Policy reflects Games Workshops zero tolerance approach to modern slavery.
Research and development The Group does not undertake research activities.
Development activities relate to the development of new product lines.
The charge to the income statement for the year in respect of development activities is detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
GDPR Everyone has rights with regard to the way in which their personal data is handled.
In the course of business, the Games Workshop Group collects, stores and processes personal data in respect of customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties.
Games Workshop always undertakes business in a manner which ensures the correct, lawful and secure treatment of personal data.
Over the past twelve months, Games Workshop has completed an audit of its European operations to confirm the extent to which personal data is collected, stored and processed, and, further to this, has reviewed and enhanced all relevant policies, documentation and procedures to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Games Workshop Data Protection Policy and supporting documents reflect Games Workshops attitude and approach to the protection of personal data.
Future developments The future developments for the Group are discussed in the strategic report on pages 3 to 12.
