4 Galliford Try plc Our business model Three strong businesses Our business model offers significant insulation against the cyclical peaks and troughs in performance faced by our housebuilding and construction peers.
Each of our businesses has a different capital requirement and makes an important contribution to our bottom line.
The role of the Group How our businesses make money Set strategy Linden Homes The Group sets overall strategic direction, Housebuilding requires up-front investment in land and development, within which our three businesses develop with cash received as the resulting homes are sold.
We ensure a profit their own strategies, reflecting the specific by buying land in good locations at the right prices, offering high-quality opportunities and challenges they face.
homes to our customers and standardising as many aspects of our See Strategy p14 products, processes and procedures as we can to maximise efficiency.
Contribution to the Groups economic model: Linden Homes has Allocate capital the highest margin of our three businesses, as well as the greatest The Group, via the Executive Board and in capital requirements.
accordance with the overall strategy set by the Board, allocates capital between our businesses, taking into account their different capital requirements, their strategies and High investment Add value to land Strong margins the size of returns available to them.
up front through planning achieved on and promotion sale of homes Deliver centralised services Our businesses deliver many support functions themselves, so they can tailor them to their precise needs.
The Group provides a Partnerships & Regeneration number of key services that are best delivered centrally and maintains small functional teams This business generates cash from its contracting activities, which it to support the Groups own activities.
uses to fund cash-consuming but higher-margin mixed-tenure developments.
We ensure we earn a profit through careful selection Mitigate risk and delivery of our contracting projects, while sharing risk and using the Groups housebuilding skills and brand to successfully deliver our The Board has ultimate responsibility for mixed-tenure developments.
risk management, including determining our risk appetite and the extent and nature Contribution to the Groups economic model: Partnerships & of our systems of risk management and Regeneration requires relatively little capital, resulting in high returns.
internal control, working through the Its margin is lower than that of a pure developer but its profitability is Executive team to implement them within increasing as its development activities expand.
See Principal risks p22 Some up-front Lower-margin Higher-margin Embed culture investment contracting revenue development revenue received regularly as received as homes The Board defines the Groups culture, the project progresses are sold including our values of Excellence, Passion, Integrity and Collaboration, sets the behaviours we want to see in Galliford Try, and promotes that culture within our Construction businesses through our Executive team.
Our Construction business receives regular payments from its clients See Our people p44 as work progresses.
We generate a profit by carefully assessing the risk and margin of each project, building strong relationships with our Govern effectively clients, collaborating with our supply chain, and delivering repeat work through frameworks.
Our approach to corporate governance provides a robust framework of oversight Contribution to the Groups economic model: Construction has the and control, within which our businesses lowest margin of our three businesses but its cash flow characteristics can implement their strategies.
typically help to fund higher-margin development activities elsewhere in the Group.
See Governance p50 Typically Contracting revenue Lower margins cash positive received regularly as achieved the project progresses Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 5 Financial Statements 2018 Our business model The key resources and stakeholder relationships we rely on Our impact How we manage it People 5,485 We develop our people so they can Each of our businesses is Having the right people is vital progress their careers.
We also responsible for recruiting and people employed across to our success and we look to reward them appropriately, developing its own talent, while our Group recruit and retain the very best promote inclusion and diversity, working closely together on talent across the Group.
and work hard to keep everyone Group-wide initiatives such healthy and safe.
We have a as wellbeing and agile working, See Our people p44 Group-level health and safety which helps us to attract and policy and common minimum retain a more diverse workforce.
standards, with each business increasingly adopting an approach tailored to its needs.
Our impact How we manage it Natural and 92.5% We plan to minimise our We have a network of national manufactured resources environmental impact and waste preferred suppliers, which we of the timber we use is production by looking to reduce manage through our procurement Our building processes use natural FSC PEFC certified our carbon emissions year-on-year, function, as well as a locally resources including land, materials maximise the waste diverted from managed subcontractor supply and energy.
We also employ plant landfill and use timber verified as chain.
We collaborate with and equipment on our sites.
coming from legal and sustainable strategic subcontractors through See Environment and sources.
We support jobs and our Advantage through Alignment climate change p47 local economies through our programme in Construction.
purchases and strategic land are managed through dedicated teams.
Our impact How we manage it Financial resources 29.2% Carefully managing our financial Each business has its own finance We invest in land and development resources helps to ensure that team, which is responsible for Pre-exceptional Group using cash generated by shareholders benefit from rising day-to-day financial decisions.
return on net assets contracting, as well as employing earnings and dividends, while we We also have a Group finance different types of debt financing.
function, including specialists in 98.2m areas such as treasury and tax.
See Financial review p26 net cash Our impact How we manage it Communities 29 We deliver high-quality and We manage our community We aim to have a positive impact functional homes, buildings and relationships at a local level Considerate Constructors on the communities we operate infrastructure, which benefit the through our businesses and Scheme awards won in, both through the way we people living in and around them, by supporting relevant and work and the legacy we leave in whether by providing homes to national charities, as well as local the form of homes, buildings, 19m buy or rent, schools for children, groups.
We use the Considerate infrastructure and other offices to work in, transport Constructors Scheme to measure committed to communities key physical assets.
projects for travel or recreational and assess the local community through planning facilities for leisure.
See Stakeholder relationships p48 obligations Our impact How we manage it Partners 200.7m By working with other We carefully select partners All three of our businesses organisations, we can take who are financially strong and share of joint work with carefully chosen on a broader range of projects, who share our values and ethics.
ventures revenue Joint Venture JV partners while sharing risk and rewards and We work closely together in critical on selected projects.
reducing our capital investment areas such as health and safety, compared with undertaking the so we maintain the high standards See Stakeholder relationships p48 project alone.
we look to achieve in our own business.
Our impact How we manage it Customers and clients Four Our customers and clients trust We have rigorous procedures Each of our businesses is us to deliver high-quality homes, in place including The Linden stars in the committed to delivering high buildings and infrastructure that Way which defines our approach NHBC customer levels of customer service.
form the fabric of our society.
satisfaction survey See Business review p30 In Construction and Partnerships & Regeneration, quality control Excellent is embedded in the business net promoter score management system, policies in Construction and procedures.
6 Galliford Try plc Our business model How each of our businesses creates value for us Linden Homes Partnerships & Regeneration development to ensure the timely Key activities Key activities delivery of low-cost homes alongside Invest: maintain landbank of prime plots Evaluate opportunities: rigorously review our open-market homes.
each opportunity to ensure it offers an appropriate balance of risk, return and Our strengths Design and planning: create new cash generation or investment.
communities through careful master A key strength is our people.
The planning using standard house types, structure and culture we have put in Develop solutions: identify local housing with the ability to alter elevations to place ensures that responsibility and demand and assemble the right complement the local vernacular.
ownership of our business is devolved combination of tenures and financing throughout the workforce, with our partners to meet that demand.
Build: construct high-quality, sustainable site teams playing a pivotal role.
homes, with a culture and commitment to Create design: design housing that suits health and safety principles.
the local area and creates communities Our approach to standardising layouts with a strong sense of place.
and streamlining processes is an Sales and aftercare: deliver a consistent important strength, allowing our people customer journey and high standards of Build and sell: use housebuilding and to focus on delivering high-quality, customer service.
contracting skills to deliver solutions.
well-designed homes and achieving a good customer journey.
Approximately Who our customers are Who our customers are 84% of homes on our sites with planning We primarily sell to first-time buyers and Our clients vary across our projects consent are based on our standard families who want mid-market homes in and could, for example, be a Registered layouts.
This supports our ability to vibrant and sustainable communities.
Provider for affordable homes or a continue to grow our operating margin financial institution in the private rented and unit numbers sustainably.
The affordable housing elements sector.
We also help local authorities to of our developments are typically Some sites, for example inner-city meet their significant housing needs.
projects on brownfield land or In addition, we develop homes for refurbishment projects, require the How we engage with private sale and sell them directly ability to design bespoke products.
our customers We retain the skillsets needed to deliver these projects and this helps Our approach to customer service How we engage with to differentiate us from other The Linden Way ensures we share our customers housebuilders.
The discipline created best practice across the business and by our standard processes helps follow the right procedures and Our regional businesses give us excellent us to deliver these more complex processes throughout the purchasing local knowledge, which enhances developments successfully.
Our Customer Charter sets our client relationships, such as those out our commitment to first-class service with Registered Providers.
We have a strong landbank of prime and what our customers should expect plots to meet our expected needs Across our many developments, we use from us.
Each development typically for the next 3.0 to 3.5 years and we the Linden Homes brand and capitalise has an on-site sales team and show are increasing our investment in on our sales and marketing expertise.
home, supported by traditional and strategic land.
We follow The Linden Way to offer digital marketing.
As a responsible developer, we deliver We have strong relationships with public spaces that support sustainable Registered Providers throughout the communities.
This can range from country and maintain these through our streetscapes that reduce vehicle regional offices.
We adopt a partnering speeds to incorporating cycle routes, approach to affordable housing delivery, woodlands and recreational areas often selecting a development partner within our developments.
prior to the commencement of See Strategy in action p16 See Strategy in action p18 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 7 Financial Statements 2018 SCHOOL Partnerships & Regeneration Construction Our strengths Key activities Our strengths Our breadth of capabilities across Manage risk: carefully select work, Our national scale with local delivery is contracting, land-led commissioning and emphasising quality over quantity, an important strength.
It enables us to through our joint venture development and effectively identify and manage combine our deep local knowledge and model is unique in the market, making risk at every stage.
supply chain with expertise from all over us an attractive partner to our clients the country.
Work with our supply chain: build and opening up a greater range of successful, long-term relationships Our focus on the public and regulated opportunities for us.
This variety also with our supply-chain partners sectors and our presence on numerous allows us to reinvest cash generated to support delivery.
frameworks allows us to learn about by contracting and commissioning in our clients needs and become experts suitable development opportunities.
Deliver: focus on quality, using our in delivering repeat projects for them.
expertise and technology to deliver We are well established, with a track This, in turn, helps to reduce our superior construction projects.
record of delivering performance, and risk profile.
have built up broad geographic coverage, Client and community focus: seek clients We employ skilled, talented and with plans to expand into new areas.
who value collaboration and create professional people, who reflect our strong community relationships.
We are one of the fastest-growing values throughout the country, and we regeneration businesses in the country.
prioritise their retention, ensuring we Who our customers are We now have eight regional offices, develop them, provide the tools they Our clients are primarily public sector which are able to respond to client need to work effectively and protect and regulated organisations.
We also needs across most of England.
their health, safety and wellbeing.
work with key private sector companies.
We have been highly successful at We build successful relationships recruiting people to support our growth, How we engage with with our supply chain partners.
inducting them into our business and Our Advantage through Alignment our customers developing them using our Leaders in scheme increases engagement with We aim to become our clients long-term Regeneration training platform.
key supply chain members, improves partners.
Our approach to collaboration communication and gives them insight has been accredited to BS 11000 and Our long-term partnering arrangements into our pipeline of work and our makes us an attractive partner.
It also allows them to benefit strength of these relationships allows us from our training programmes and We operate through a network of to unlock the capacity among our clients, practices, including our award-winning regional offices, giving us in-depth which enables both parties to deliver health and safety programme.
knowledge of local markets and in line with their own business plans, enabling us to build strong local and securing work for the present and national client relationships.
We work with around 68 Registered Providers.
We employ our Delivering Excellence framework, where we can, to achieve high levels of client satisfaction.
