20 Galliford Try plc Strategy in action Construction The three elements of our Construction strategy complement each other.
We made good progress with retaining and improving our platform this year, with higher margins coming through on new work.
SCHOOL Our strategy Our progress 1 Retain our solid platform Focusing on our people for sustainable growth Our people strategy includes a strong Equality, We intend to maintain and build on our Diversity and Inclusion EDI focus on areas strengths, including our skilled people, including gender, ethnicity and disability.
This health and safety record, national will help us to meet our business needs for and coverage with local delivery, excellent beyond our strategy period page 44.
This is position on frameworks, and focus on supported by agile working arrangements and the public and regulated sectors.
an EDI Action Plan targeted at continually improving the inclusivity of our governance, procedures, behaviours and resourcing.
2 This year, we have additionally developed a Leadership Framework which provides a Improve our operations foundation for career paths throughout the to drive margin business.
The core capabilities link to the values and behaviours required for leaders, progression showcasing what great leadership looks like.
To support our margin progression, we will The framework forms a cornerstone of our continue to: improve our risk management: approach to key processes such as succession attract, retain and develop a diverse planning, development, high potential workforce: further enhance our systems identification and recruitment.
and communication tools: and align our supply chain with our operations.
3 Improving risk management Deliver strong, This year, we further strengthened our project approval process by introducing a new heat map predictable cash flows approach, which appraises a project based on and margin improvement its inherent risk.
The assessment covers a wide range of technical and other factors, including Ensuring we only bid for high-quality work the project location, the type of work, the terms with appropriate margins, while continuing and conditions and the availability of people.
to improve the way we work, will enhance Any project with a red flag must be approved our margins over the period to 2021. by the Construction board.
The project approval This, in turn, will help us to deliver process is now separate from the regular monthly consistent and growing cash flows.
board meeting to ensure the directors can apply dedicated focus to considering the merits of each project.
See Business review p36 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 21 Financial Statements 2018 Focusing on quality Quality is critical for client satisfaction and for preventing additional costly work in rectifying problems.
We are focusing on improving quality in two ways.
First, we are using our experts to give practical on-site teach-ins on subjects such as fire stopping, so our people understand what they need to do to achieve the best result.
Second, we are using technology to document and photograph our on-site quality control and upload the records centrally.
This ensures we have the evidence that we are building to the right quality and makes the task much faster and simpler for 8 10 our people.
We have improved our customer satisfaction score to eight this year, out of a total Our customer satisfaction score of 10.
Our Net Promoter Score is 59.
This score was 8 out of 10 this year, up from can be as low as -100 if every customer is unhappy 7.93 the previous year or as high as 100 if every customer is a promoter of the business.
A score of above 50 is generally considered excellent, reflecting the progress we are making through our focus on quality and client satisfaction.
59 We have a Net Promoter Score of 59, which is considered excellent
