Financial risks The financial risks facing the Group are set out in note 20 to these financial statements.
Going concern and viability statement Assessment of prospects The Group operates a strategic planning process which includes monthly reviews of business and financial performance, regular financial projections and an annual planning review for the next financial year.
Medium term projections for periods ending two years and three years hence are extrapolated from the plan for the following financial year taking into account known strategy changes.
This strategic planning process is managed centrally, led by the finance director.
Assessment of viability The strategic plan reflects the directors cautious view of possible outcomes.
It is not used to set targets for performance.
The viability assessment has been conducted for a period of three years which is in line with the Groups strategic planning period.
In making the viability assessment the principal risks facing the business have been considered and a number of severe but plausible scenarios assessed for the impact of these on the medium term projections.
The scenarios tested include: A significant interruption in the supply chain impacting the manufacturing operations A material fluctuation of the sterling exchange rate A failure in the existing ERP system before the new ERP system goes live Viability statement Based on the boards assessment as described above, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending May 2021.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements.
By order of the board R F Tongue Group finance director and company secretary 30 July 2018 17 Games Workshop Group PLC
