S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 91 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GENUS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Genus plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 55.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the ParentCompany.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture Consideration of the key assumptions used in the impairment model for the ABS cash generating unit Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 2,300,000 2017: 2,200,000 which is 5.4% 2017: 5.0% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value in biological assets.
Scoping Our audit scope covered 15 components 2017: 17.
Of these, seven were subject to a full audit 2017:eight, whilst the other eight 2017: nine were subject to specified audit procedures.
The coverage of key account balances was 75% of revenue 2017: 82%, 75% pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes infair value in biological assets 2017: 80% and 84% of net assets 2017: 92%.
Significant changes Given the improved position on the Milk Pension Fund defined benefit pension scheme and the in our approach continued contributions of other employers of the scheme, we no longer include this as a key auditmatter.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GENUS PLC Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about We confirm that we have whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in nothing material to report, preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and add or draw attention to in Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of respect of these matters.
approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add, or draw attention to, inrelation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the nothing material to report, knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the add or draw attention to in Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have respect of these matters.
anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 12 and 13 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 14 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 14 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture Key audit matter description The Group calculates the fair value of biological assets through the use of discounted cash flow models and recent transaction prices.
As at 30 June 2018, the total fair value of biological assets is 343m 2017: 353m.
Certain assumptions contain high levels of estimation and therefore represent potential areas where management could fraudulently manipulate the financial statements.
Our key audit matter is focused specifically on the following key assumptions for each species, being the most sensitive assumptions applied in the valuation models.
For bovine asset valuations: the future growth rates of semen volumes: the forecast average age of bulls producing saleable semen: expected unit prices: and the discount rates applied.
For porcine asset valuations: the expected useful breeding life of pigs: the number of future generations attributable to the current herds: and the discount rate applied.
Details of the biological assets are disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this key audit matter on page 63 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements in note 4 to the financial statements.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 93 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Key estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture continued How the scope of our audit Our response to this key audit matter considers the separate elements of the fair value responded to the key audit calculations, specifically the basis for managements key estimates and assumptions.
matter For the bovine asset valuations, our audit work comprised of evaluating the design and implementation of controls relevant to the valuation model and substantive procedures.
Our substantive procedures included challenging managements assumptions by performing sensitivities, assessing historical forecasting accuracy, comparing to third-party data and reviewing the model logic and accounting treatment given the change in the year.
For the porcine asset valuations our audit work included consideration of the appropriateness of managements assessment of the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herd and expected useful lives.
We tested the expected percentages of animals to be sold, retained and slaughtered as well as recent selling prices by reference to historical transactional data.
For all other key assumptions in each model we challenged the significant estimates with reference to third-party or historical transactional data as appropriate.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
For both species valuation models, we used internal valuation experts in our testing of the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the fair value determination of biological assets are appropriate.
Consideration of the key assumptions used in the impairment model for the ABS cash generating unit Key audit matter description The Group has 31.2m of goodwill 2017: 32.4m on its balance sheet and total assets of 160.6m 2017: 132.8m in relation to the ABS CGU.
On an annual basis, management is required to perform an impairment assessment for goodwill, and to assess for indicators of impairment in respect of other intangible and tangible assets.
Assessment of the carrying value of the CGUs assets is a key audit matter due to the quantum of the balance and the judgements and estimates involved in setting the key assumptions and assertions used by management to support their assessment of the carrying value.
Our key audit matter in the current period has been focused specifically on the assets associated with the ABS business due to the more limited headroom associated with this cash generating unit.
The key assumptions in testing the carrying value of the ABS CGU for impairment include the short-term and long-term growth rates and the discount rate.
The associated disclosure is included in note 14 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We challenged the assumptions used by management in their annual impairment assessment, responded to the key audit by comparing the projected growth rates and forecast cash flows against historical trends matter achieved in the business.
We analysed historical budgeting accuracy to assess the reliability of the growth rates used in managements forecasts.
Where available, we reviewed third-party market data to challenge the assumptions used, including benchmarking the long-term growth rate against the applicable industry and regional long-term growth rates which Genus operate in.
We evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups key impairment assumptions, as identified above, to reasonably possible changes and considered the disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment review within note 14 to the financial statements.
We used valuation specialists within the audit team to challenge the discount rates applied tothese cash flows by reference to market data, including the risk premium applied to the ABSCGU.
Key observations We are satisfied with managements conclusions that the ABS CGU is not impaired and areasonably possible change in any one of the key assumptions does not give rise to animpairment.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GENUS PLC Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 2,300,000 2017: 2,200,000 1,820,000 2017: 1,100,000 Basis for 5.4% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items 1% of net assets, which is lower than our determining andchanges in fair value of biological assets benchmark of 80% of Group materiality 2017: 1% materiality 2017:5.0%.
of net assets, which was capped at our benchmark of 50% of Group materiality.
Rationale for the We have used a profit-based measure given the Genus plc Company only does not generate benchmark applied Group is listed and, therefore, shareholders focus any external income and, therefore, we deem onprofitability.
The profit is adjusted for the that net assets is a more appropriate basis for exceptional items and changes in fair value of determining materiality.
biological assets, to avoid distortion that could otherwise arise due to non-recurring items and fairvalue movements.
Group materiality 2.3m Component Pro t before tax materiality range before exceptional items 1.8m to 0.9m and IAS 41 movements 42.4m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.115m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 115,000 2017:100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of thefinancial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, andassessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 15 components 2017: 17.
Of these, seven were subject to a full audit 2017: eight, whilst the remaining eight 2017: nine were subject to specified audit procedures, where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 15 components represent the principal business units and account for 75% 2017: 82% of the Groups revenue, 75% 2017: 80% of the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets, and 84% 2017:92% of the Groups net assets.
REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX NET ASSETS 63% Full audit scope 52% Full audit scope 70% Full audit scope 12% Speci ed audit procedures 23% Speci ed audit procedures 14% Speci ed audit procedures 25% Revenue at Group level 25% Revenue at Group level 16% Revenue at Group level Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 95 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits.
The lead audit partner visited the USA during the current year, and in the previous year visited the USA, Mexico and Brazil.
In years when we do not visit a significant component, we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
As well as component reporting, in the current year we have reviewed a selection of audit papers for allin scope components.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing toreport in information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our respect ofthese matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee doesnot appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts ofthe Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose adeparture from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GENUS PLC Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or inrespect of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting recordsand returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors inrespect of these matters.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 8 June 2006 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 13 years, covering the years ending 30 June 2006 to 30 June 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Bond, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 5 September 2018 Genus plc | Annual Report 2018
