26 DIVISIONAL REVIEW GENUS PIC HELPING CUSTOMERS G GR RO OW W PICS ELITE AND PROPRIETARY GENETICS ENHANCE PROFITABILITY IN CUSTOMERS PRODUCTION SYSTEMS DR BILL CHRISTIANSON CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS PIC STRATEGIC PROGRESS BUSINESS PRIORITIES During the year, progress against our strategic objectives included: SHORT TERM INCREASING GENETIC CONTROL AND PRODUCT Continue to drive rapid genetic DIFFERENTIATION progress, grow our market presence and exploit the Agreeing a strategic relationship with Mllevang, making it a distributor opportunities of the Mllevang and an elite genetics production partner for PIC in Denmark, from relationship 2July2018 Introducing the industrys first-ever direct measurement and selection for MEDIUM TERM meat tenderness, giving customers a further indication of meat quality Strengthen our supply chain Strengthening technical services for customers, blending world-class particularly in North America and expertise and on-the-ground support to help them make the most of China and keep expanding our our genes in their production system business in Europe LONG TERM TARGETING KEY MARKETS ANDSEGMENTS Continue collaborating with Continuing our progress in Europe, where we delivered growth colleagues and partners to of48%, and increasing breeding stock revenue in China by 20% achieve regulatory acceptance Identifying opportunities for expanding and strengthening our for, and commercialisation of, supplychain in China gene editing technologies Integrating Hermitage into PICs European supply chain and customeroperations Successfully consolidating our share of business with large producersaround the world, so we now work with 75% of the largest global accounts SHARING IN THE VALUEDELIVERED Expanding our programmes, through which we can price to value ourmost elite terminal sire genes around the world Continuing to increase the use of royalty contracts, with 76% of our business conducted on this basis including eight agreements within China Conducting 26 product trials across eight countries, involving more than 65,000 pigs, to demonstrate the difference our products and services deliver for customers Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 27 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON OPERATING REVIEW GENUS PIC Constant Actual currency currency 2018 2017 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 247.7 249.5 1 3 Adjusted operating profit excl.
JVs 88.7 87.7 1 6 Adjusted operating profit incl.
JVs 94.8 94.8 5 Adjusted operating margin excl.
JVs 35.8% 35.2% 0.6pts 1.0pts Market Political global trade disruptions also up11%, with growth in all regions.
A key Sustained global economic growth in added increasing uncertainty for PICs contributor to this growth was royalty theyear under review supported strong customers.
Russia imposed an embargo revenue, which increased by 15%.
demand for pork and expansion on Brazilian pork in the autumn of 2017.
Profitperformance from PICs joint ofinternational trade, with global In 2018, both China and Mexico enacted venture in Brazil was up by 14% in consumption increasing by 2%.
With tariff schedules for US pork products, in constant currency.
this positive backdrop, producers started response to US-imposed steel and the year in an expansionary mode in key aluminium import taxes.
This resulted in Europe achieved impressive growth, markets such as the US, Europe and significant falls in US pig futures prices, with volumes up 15%, royalty revenues China.
However, over the course of the and along with growing production up 32% and constant currency profits year, record pork production along with already in the pipeline, puts US up48%, driven by customer wins variable input costs, trade disruptions, producers in a situation of significant andstrategic pricing initiatives.
The and disease risks resulted in heightened uncertainty for the coming year.
In integration of the Hermitage key price volatility and uncertainty.
addition, African Swine Fever has been accounts and distribution partnership detected in China for the first time in also contributed positively to growth in August 2018, which could have Europe, which was in line with our Pork Key Markets substantial effects on the pig industry expectations.
The integration of PICs per kg there and on global trade if eradication strategic relationship with Mllevang 3.5 efforts are not successful.
and further synergies from the partnership with Hermitage will 3.0 The porcine genetics market saw contribute to further growth for PIC significant change, with Danbred, Europe going forward.
2.5 atop-three global competitor, breaking up into competing groups of breeders.
Asias profits were 1% higher in 2.0 Following this, PIC announced it constant currency compared with 2017, hadagreed to enter into a strategic with strong growth in most countries, 1.5 relationship with Mllevang from driven by volume growth of 19% and 1.0 July2018.
royalty revenue growth of 31% in the region.
However, China experienced 0.5 Performance weakening market prices for by-product Aug 16 Aug 17 Aug 18 Genus PIC achieved another good pigs and biosecurity challenges in the Brazil US China EU Russia performance, with operating profit supply chain.
This resulted in Chinas including joint ventures of 94.8m, profits being 15% lower against a In response to the expansion of major up5% in constant currency.
Volumes strong prior year, despite growth being producers, pig prices in China declined grew by 8% and revenue was 3% achieved in royalties 29%, volumes sharply throughout the year, although higher, primarily due to 10% higher 44% and breeding stock profits over more recent months a recovery has royalty revenues, partially offset by 24%.
PICs strategy to focus on key begun.
Meanwhile, in the United States, lower slaughter prices in China on large-scale customers in emerging pig inventories surpassed 73 million by-product animals and the exit from markets, while mitigating operational head for the first time, as new some non-strategic farms in Europe risks, continues to position PIC for good processing facilities were brought andLatin America.
long-term prospects in the Asia region.
Prices in the US ended June 2018 5% lower than in the prior year and In North America, revenue grew 1% Overall, PIC delivered good results, have fallen substantially further since inconstant currency, driven by royalty despite varying global market conditions then.
EU production also grew due to growth of 3%.
Health breaks in PIC and continued investment to enhance increasing productivity and a 1.4% multiplication farms and customer product supply and differentiation.
PICs increase in its breeding herd, causing farms, along with PICs continued long-term global business model and prices to soften 15% through 2018. investments in expanding the supply strategic relationships such as those Brazil was poised for a comeback after chain and upgrading company-owned with Hermitage and Mllevang, will avolatile FY17, but increasing feed costs facilities, restricted North Americas enable PIC to continue to better serve eroded margins and a transportation profit growth to 1% during the period.
customers, mitigate market risks and strike temporarily halted processing support future growth through atabattoirs.
Latin American profits improved by challenging markets.
17%, volumes improved 10% and revenue in constant currency was Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 28 DIVISIONAL REVIEW GENUS ABS ACHIEVING STRONG G GR RO OW WT TH H SEXCELS LAUNCH HAS ENABLED US TO DRIVE GROWTH IN BOTH DAIRY AND BEEF GENETICS JERRY THOMPSON STRATEGIC PROGRESS CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS ABS BEEF During the year, progress against our strategic objectives included: INCREASING GENETIC CONTROL AND PRODUCT DIFFERENTIATION Successfully launching Sexcel our proprietary bovine sexed genetics product globally, supported by processing facilities in the US and India Significantly strengthening our dairy bull line up through fide Novo produced genetics Introducing Icon Sires, to give customers early access to elite dairy genetics, in return for the option to buy progeny at a pre-set DR NATE ZWALD price and breeding rights to any bulls CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS ABS DAIRY Continuing to evolve NuEra Genetics, our proprietary beef range, by introducing NuEra bulls to our US beef-on-dairy offer and achieving top rankings in BeefAdvantage, EMEAs beef-on-dairy index BUSINESS PRIORITIES TARGETING KEY MARKETS ANDSEGMENTS SHORT TERM Harnessing Sexcel to strengthen relationships with dairy farmers Grow strategic relationships with across EMEA customers around the world, Enhancing our focus on large dairy accounts, particularly in the US, becoming their genetic adviser of with whom we partner on both genetic improvement strategy and choice and leveraging the operational activities strength of Sexcel and our product portfolio Increasing sales of embryos by 20%, as we continue to engage larger customers with the benefits embryos offer as a genetic MEDIUM TERM improvement platform Strengthen our range of Expanding our range of economic indices for beef, introducing the proprietary products and proprietary XBlack index in Brazil to identify the most profitable indicesand continue exploring genetics for crossbreeding in tropical conditions opportunities created by Sexcel for both beef and dairycustomers SHARING IN THE VALUEDELIVERED Exploring a transition to performance-based pricing, based on helping LONG TERM progressive dairy farmers achieve their genetic improvement goals Expand our product validation Using our growing range of indices to align pricing of the most programme as a basis for profitable genetics with the value they deliver enhancing our share of the valuewe deliver for customers Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 29 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON OPERATING REVIEW GENUS ABS Constant Actual currency currency 2018 2017 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 210.6 195.9 8 11 Adjusted operating profit 26.2 22.3 17 23 Adjusted operating profit less non-controlling interest 26.1 21.3 23 29 Adjusted operating margin 12.4% 11.4% 1.0pts 1.2pts Market Influenced by local market conditions, with beef genetics for a portion of the Following robust growth in milk output prices for cattle remain diverse, being up herd, continued.
As a result, beef volumes in the first half of the year, challenging in Brazil, Europe and China, but down in increased by 7%, beef selling prices weather conditions in key exporting the US, Australia and New Zealand.
This increased by 9%, due to focus on the countries caused growth to slow in the volatility is likely to remain affected by value of differentiated beef genetics, and second half, which in the US and Europe seasonality of supply, changing feed sexed semen volumes grew 24%, with was contrary to market expectations.
prices and the availability of other strong customer acceptance of Sexcel.
Increased feed prices also capped sources of protein in markets such as growth in milk volumes.
In addition, the impact of tariffs In North America, profits decreased by market continues to grow and influence on the global beef trade is increasing 17% in constant currency.
Volumes were the global demand for dairy products, uncertainty for producers.
up by 2%, with sexed volumes up 29%, with imports increasing in 2018. and revenue grew by 5%, but this was Beef Key Markets offset by planned investment to Live cattle per kg Global dairy markets entered the strengthen the focus on key account financial year reflecting optimism, as 3.0 management.
Beef volumes were up nearly all dairy indices had recovered 19% over the prior year, reflecting stable 2.5 from the previous down cycle.
Dairy beef market conditions and the use of prices remained strong through the early beef genetics on dairy herds, supported 2.0 part of this financial year but fell off as by proprietary NuEra genetics selected for the year progressed, with the US and cross-bred beef-on-dairy performance.
1.5 EU down 8% and 15% respectively since November 2017.
Growing tension In Latin America, profits were up 4% 1.0 around trade and tariffs has increased inconstant currency, with conventional the level of uncertainty for farmers, dairy volumes increasing 4% and sexed 0.5 particularly in the US.
Beef volumes were up 5%, production continues to be affected despite challenging market conditions 0.0 bydrought conditions in some areas, and lower domestic beef consumption Aug 16 Aug 17 Aug 18 forcing animals to be placed into feed in Brazil.
NuEra genetics, selected for Brazil US lots early and potentially affecting cross-bred performance of North consistency of supply into the latter Continuing consolidation of the global American sires with tropical cows, partof 2018.
In addition, feed cost dairy industry and of high-quality proved popular with customers.
increases will not encourage producers breeding herds has also pushed bovine to raise heavy animals, which may genetics suppliers to consolidate, with it In Asia, volumes were up 8% and profits constrain supply.
being increasingly important for them to up 36%, with growth across all major own and control their genetics, as ABS countries.
Profits were up 242% in Dairy Key Markets has done through fide Novo.
Russia, 81% in Australia and 29% in Japan.
Asia also successfully launched Pence per litre Performance Sexcel from our Brahma stud in India, 50 Performance was strong, with operating toprovide elite sexed genetics into the 45 profits for ABS increasing by 29% in Indian market for the first time, leading constant currency, on a 5% volume to more than 100% profit growth.
40 increase and an 11% increase in revenue.
Sexed volumes were up 25%, reflecting IVB grew embryo volumes by 20% and 35 the successful launch of Sexcel, and revenues by 24%.
However, investments 30 sales of inventory produced under the to establish new laboratories held contract with ST, which terminated in back profit growth to 8%, including 25 August 2017.
Increased usage of sexed non-controlling interest.
IVB was fully genetics also led to increased use of integrated into the regional structure 20 beef genetics in dairy herds, supporting of ABS at the end of the period.
15 an 8% increase in global beef volumes.
Aug 16 Aug 17 Aug 18 Overall, ABS delivered a much improved Brazil US China In Europe, profits were up 12% in performance and, with the increasing EU Russia India constant currency, with volumes customer adoption of Sexcel and a increasing 4% in generally favourable leading genetic portfolio, anticipates markets for producers.
The trend of dairy continued progress.
customers using sexed genetics, coupled Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 30 DIVISIONAL REVIEW GENUS R&D DRIVING GENETIC PRO PROG GR RE ES SS S WE ARE USING PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION TO DRIVE FASTER GENETIC PROGRESS, TO BENEFIT CUSTOMERS, THEIR ANIMALS AND THE PLANET DR JONATHAN LIGHTNER CHIEF R&D AND SCIENTIFIC OFFICER STRATEGIC PROGRESS DIVISIONAL PRIORITIES During the year, progress against our strategic objectives included: SHORT TERM DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS FROM GENOMICSELECTION Increase capacity to meet growing demand for our Continuing to harness genomic science to drive porcine genetics that proprietary sexed genetics benefit animals and customers, for example, improving piglet technology and build capabilities resilience to reduce pre-wean mortality for successfully engaging with regulators regarding gene edited Achieving industry leading elite and proprietary dairy genetics through animal proteins fide Novo Genetics, our joint venture with fide-Su Holsteins Increasing the number of dairy sires ranking highly for TransitionRight MEDIUM TERM traits, which improve daughters resilience to health problems in the period after giving birth Progress our regulatory filings for PRRSv gene editing work Continuing to grow our range of proprietary selection indices for beef genetics, based on identification of the drivers of profitability in target LONG TERM markets and segments Achieve a proof of concept resilience test for Bovine GENE EDITING Respiratory Disease Conducting in-house genome editing of beef and dairy embryos to target the CD18 gene, seeking proof of concept that a single change to this gene can improve resilience to Bovine Respiratory Disease Working with our joint venture partner, RenOVAte Biosciences, to edit the CD163 gene in elite PIC genetics, to produce pigs which resist PRRSv infection, and having patents issued in the US and Europe GENDER SKEW Using our proprietary technology to produce Sexcel for Genus ABS, establishing a new quality standard for sexed bovine genetics and giving customers a major performance advantage Establishing IntelliGen Technologies to market and license our technology to third parties, signing agreements with partners in Norway and India the worlds largest dairy market Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 31 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON OPERATING REVIEW GENUS R&D Constant Actual currency currency 2018 2017 Movement Movement m m % % Porcine product development 17.0 16.6 2 8 Bovine product development 17.2 15.3 12 18 Gene editing 5.0 3.5 43 46 Other research and development 7.6 8.4 10 2 Net expenditure in R&D less non-controlling interest 46.8 43.8 7 13 Performance Bovine product development expense Gene editing expenditure increased by As planned, R&D investment increased increased by 18%, primarily due to 46% in the year, primarily associated by 13% in constant currency to the start of amortisation of previously with the porcine PRRSv resistance 46.8m, primarily due to the launch capitalised IntelliGen development project and, to a lesser extent, work of IntelliGen and the development of costs and continued development of on investigating bovine respiratory gene editing initiatives.
This included work to disease.
In porcine, Genus worked with R&D investments are expected to further increase the performance of the RenOVAte Biosciences, its co-founded continue to increase in 2019, as we IntelliGen instruments, refine biological gene editing company, to produce the continue to execute our strategy of processes and ensure continuous first-generation gene edited pigs in delivering proprietary differentiated improvement in processing and cost elite purelines.
The population size is products that customers value.
In addition, to further now being expanded through matings expand the IntelliGen footprint globally, of these animals, with pregnancies Within porcine product development, Genus continues to drive business established for the next generation.
the continued implementation of development opportunities in technology Genus also advanced its regulatory single-step genomic evaluation across transfer and external customer service.
engagement with the FDA and had all porcine pure line populations, patents issued in the US and Europe.
crossbred products and traits The dairy product development effort Gene editing costs will continue resulted in further strong genetic has continued to benefit from the to grow as the number of animals gain.
Genus has continued to drive integration of fide Novo Genetics, a carrying the edit is increased and initial the rate of genetic gain 35% faster majority owned company created in regulatory submissions are prepared.
compared with the period before the September 2016 with fide-Su Holsteins.
During the year, As a result, Genus substantially Industry leading research Hermitage was transitioned to PIC improved the quality of its industry continued in developing genomic genetics and integrated into Genuss leading dairy bull portfolio, while also selection approaches to drive programme.
The 8% spending growth improving the focus of the operation genetic improvement and was a result of expanding genetic and reducing costs.
Genus continues differentiation even faster, along testing and product validation and to grow its genomic database and with investments in intellectual investment, to identify unique new Real World Data collection and is property creation and protection.
traits such as meat tenderness.
In beef, there was continued investment in building proprietary differentiated customer products that maximise value in the beef supply chain, through genetic improvement in Genuss beef nucleus herd.
