14 GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board assesses the Groups going The potential impact on the Groups Going Concern and concern and viability based on its cash cash flow and net debt, in severe Viability Statement flows and business plans, combined butplausible scenarios of selected Based on this assessment, the Directors with downside scenarios of the principal principal risks, and in particular the have a reasonable expectation that risks described on pages 12 and 13 and impacts of biosecurity, agricultural theGroup has adequate resources other financial and performance factors markets downturn, border closures, tocontinue its operational existence that could threaten the Groups plans, the continuing development of forthe foreseeable future and for a performance and financial position.
IntelliGen, continuity of supply and period of at least 12 months from The outcome of this analysis and the increased competition.
This thedate of this report.
Accordingly, appropriateness of the period over assessment considered the likely theDirectors continue to adopt and which the Board decided to provide its effectiveness of current and available consider appropriate the going concern viability statement are described below.
mitigating actions, and the position if basis in preparing the Annual Report.
each of the identified principal risks Assessing Our Prospects materialised individually and where Also, based on this assessment, the In order to reach a conclusion on both multiple risks occur in parallel.
Directors have a reasonable expectation the appropriateness of adopting the that the Group will be able to continue in going concern basis of accounting in Assessment Period operation and meet its liabilities as they preparing the Annual Report and on our In their assessment of the Groups fall due over the period to June 2021. viability, the Board carried out a robust viability, the Directors have determined assessment of the principal risks facing that a three-year time horizon, to June Genus, including those that would 2021, is an appropriate period to adopt.
threaten its business model, future This was based on the Groups visibility performance, solvency or liquidity.
of its product development pipeline, for Thisassessment considered: example, as a result of the genetic lag of approximately three years between the Genuss current strategic plan, porcine nucleus herds and customers financial position and its planned production systems and the pipeline of capital expenditure, as well as the young bulls.
The Board also considered financing facilities available to the the nature of the principal risks affecting Group.
During the year, Genus Genus, including the agricultural markets exercised an accordion feature of the in which it operates.
facility, increasing our facility by 20m and taking total current facilities to 220m, until February 2021, reducing to 174m in February 2022, the final year.
The Groups financial position remains strong.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 15 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Karim Bitar Chief Executive Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director Genus plc | Annual Report 2018
