S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 89 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors Substantial Shareholdings The Directors and the dates of their respective appointments As at 3 September 2018, we were aware of the following are listed on pages 44 and 45. material interests in the Companys ordinary shares: As at 3 September 2018 Shares held % Equal Opportunities Employees with Disabilities Genus values diversity and aims to make best use of Lansdowne Partners 5,352,933 8.70 everyones skills and abilities.
We are therefore committed to Baillie Gifford & Co Limited 4,405,616 7.16 equal opportunities at every stage of our employees careers.
Columbia Threadneedle Our policy on employees with disabilities is to fully and fairly Investments 3,324,465 5.40 consider people with disabilities for all vacancies.
We interview and recruit people with disabilities and endeavour to NFU Mutual Investment Mgrs 2,020,733 3.28 retain employees if they become disabled while they work for M&G Investment Mgt 1,928,567 3.13 us.
Where possible, we will retrain employees who become disabled and adjust their working environment, so they can Legal & General Investment Mgt 1,883,139 3.06 maximise their potential.
There have been no material changes in shareholding since Political Contributions 30 June 2018.
The Group does not make political contributions.
No other person has notified an interest in the Companys Dividend ordinary shares, which is required to be disclosed to us.
The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of 17.9 pence per ordinary share, resulting in a total dividend for Provision of Information to the Companys Auditor the year of 26.0 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 10% Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this Annual for the year.
It is proposed that the final dividend will be paid Report confirms that: on 30 November 2018, to shareholders on the register at the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit close of business on 16 November 2018. information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought Share Capital tohave taken as a Director in order to make himself Note 29 gives details of the Companys issued share capital and orherself aware of any relevant audit information and any movements in the issued share capital during the year.
The toestablish that the Companys auditor is aware of Directors may only issue shares to the extent authorised by the thatinformation.
The current power to allot shares was granted by shareholder resolution at the 2017 AGM This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance and a new authority is being sought at the 2018 AGM within the with the provisions of section 418 Companies Act 2006. limits set out in the notice of meeting, that is up to a nominal value of 4,102,831.12 representing two-thirds of the Appointment of Auditor Companys current issued share capital.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be The Company has one class of ordinary share, with the rights proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
set out in the Articles of Association.
All issued shares are fully paid and each share has the right to one vote at the Companys Directors Indemnities general meetings.
There are no specific restrictions either on The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are provisions for the benefit of its Directors, which were made both governed by our Articles of Association and prevailing during the year and remained in force at the date of this report.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Requirements of the Listing Rules Details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes can Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 in note 51.
In connection with these schemes, the Genus plc to88.
Employee Benefit Trust holds shares in the Company from time to time and abstains from voting in respect of any such shares.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: For additional information on capital risk management, Dan Hartley including financial instruments, see note 24.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 5 September 2018 Authority to Acquire the Companys Own Shares The Directors may only buy back shares to the extent authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
The current power to buy back shares was granted by shareholder resolution at the 2017 AGM and a new authority is being sought at the 2018 AGM within the limits set out in the notice of meeting, that is up to a nominal value of 615,425 representing 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
No shares were bought back by the Company under the authority granted at the 2017 AGM, from the date of that AGM up to the date of this report.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 90 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable integrity of the corporate and financial information included on law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Directors Responsibility Statement Statements in accordance with International Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Disclosure Framework.
Under company law, the Directors consolidation taken as a whole: must not approve the financial statements unless they are the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of development and performance of the business and the affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the position of the Company and the undertakings included Company for that period.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, face: and the Directors are required to: the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a select suitable accounting policies and then apply whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide them consistently: the information necessary for shareholders to assess make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Companys position, performance, business model reasonable and prudent: and strategy.
state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and Karim Bitar prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern Chief Executive basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 5 September 2018 Company will continue in business.
Stephen Wilson In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Group Finance Director Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: 5 September 2018 properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them toensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
