10 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK CAPTURING SIGNIFICANT GROWTH INCREASING GENETIC CONTROL GENUS HELPS FARMERS TO AND PRODUCT DIFFERENTIATION PRODUCE HIGH-QUALITY MEAT To strengthen our product offering AND MILK MORE EFFICIENTLY We use the latest technology to continuously improve our own herds, investing in new technology to strengthen our AND SUSTAINABLY.
WE DO THIS capabilities, and protecting our unique position by choosing how to deploy our genes and technology.
BY CONTINUOUSLY PRODUCING SUPERIOR BREEDING ANIMALS THROUGH GENETIC TARGETING KEY MARKETS IMPROVEMENT, WITH CHARACTERISTICS TAILORED AND SEGMENTS FOR DIFFERENT MARKETS.
To deliver the right offering for the right customers We target leading integrated pork producers and progressive dairy farmers globally, and offer them our superior breeding animals, semen and embryos, together with technical services, tailored to their needs.
SHARING IN THE VALUE DELIVERED To capture an appropriate share of the value we deliver to customers, aligning our interests with theirs We demonstrate the value of our genetics on farm through trials and data, and link our pricing to genetic indices and our customers productivity.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 11 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Porcine Genetic Improvement Index Net Merit Rankings US$ genomic and daughter proven bulls 3.77 Genomic Proven 15 3.34 3.24 3.18 Proven 30 37 23 17 17 1.90 Genomic 19 18 13 11 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Measures the genetic improvement we achieve in our Monitors how many of our bulls are highly ranked, porcine nucleus herds that ultimately filters down to based on economically relevant traits for farmers.
Definition Definition The number of our generally available Holstein bulls The index measures the marginal improvement in listed in the top 100 Genomic US$ Net Merit rankings customers US$ profitability, per commercial pig per for genomically tested and the top 100 US$ Net Merit What does success look like?
year, on a rolling three-year average.
Prior years index rankings for daughter proven sires.
Creating better breeding ratings have been updated, to reflect the latest results Performance animals for farmers, measured from genomic selection and the economic values of Genus has established a leadership position with its pork production.
against proprietary and public strength in genomic bulls, which over time will become Performance daughter proven bulls.
This is mainly driven by the indices which are weighted Implementing genomic selection technology in 2013 growing portion of high-quality bulls sourced from our towards economic traits that led to a step change in genetic gain value improvement proprietary breeding programme, fide Novo.
in the following years and has delivered a further help farmers operate more improvement of US$3.24 per pig in 2018. efficiently and sustainably.
For more information see pages 20 to 21 Dairy and Beef Volume Growth Porcine Volume Growth % % 9 6 8 5 5 6 What does success look like?
1 4 4 Growing volumes, particularly 14 15 16 17 18 with progressive dairies and integrated pork producers, who focus heavily on the efficiency and sustainability of their 6 14 15 16 17 18 production systems.
Tracks our global unit sales growth in dairy and beef.
Tracks the growth in the number of commercial pigs with PIC genetics globally.
Definition For more information The change in dairy, beef and sexed units of semen Definition see pages 22 to 23 and embryos delivered or produced for customers The change in volume of both direct and royalty animal inthe year.
sales, using a standardised MPEs measure of commercial slaughter animals that contain our genetics.
Performance Bovine volumes improved 5% to 18.6 million units, Performance with growth across all regions.
Sexed volumes were up Volumes grew 8% to 151 million MPEs, with double-digit 25%, reflecting a successful launch of Sexcel, which growth in Latin America, Europe and Asia, with growth in also strongly influenced the use of beef-on-dairy China being particularly strong from high stockings.
genetics, supporting an 8% increase in global beef.
Royalty contract volumes also increased 7%, fuelled Embryo volumes increased 20%, as IVB continued to particularly by growth in Europe of 27%.
What does success look like?
grow in large enterprise accounts.
Generating profit resulting from the superior quality and performance of our products Operating Pro t Per Market Bovine Operating Pro t Per Dose in customers systems.
Monitors bovine profitability per unit of volume.
Definition Definition Net porcine adjusted operating profit including product Net dairy and beef adjusted operating profit including development, expressed per MPE.
Results include our product development, expressed per dose of share of Agroceres PIC, our Brazilian joint venture.
Excludes India, as its characteristics are substantially different to the rest Performance of our bovine business.
Operating profit per MPE was 0.56, down 0.05 down 0.02 in constant currency, due to supply chain Performance and porcine product development investments, to fuel Operating profit per dose was 0.70, up 0.13, due future profit growth.
to a strong sales performance of Sexcel launched in the year and with lower costs of production than the predecessor technology.
