09 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Industry trends The healthcare industry is changing rapidly and has strong growth potential.
Our strategy and long-term priorities, underpinned by our culture, are designed to put us in the best position to be able to respond to the opportunities and challenges that this presents.
Global economic growth remained steady in 2018, with a projected Pricing and access 1 annual growth rate of 3.7%.
This was despite concerns over The pricing of healthcare products continues to attract significant international trade, the weaker economic performance in some attention from governments and the public, with calls for better countries, notably Europe and Asia, and geopolitical friction.
transparency on how prices are set and a greater emphasis on health In Europe, a lack of clarity about the nature of the UKs future outcome-based pricing.
Specialty medicines continue to receive relationship with the EU caused some political and economic particular attention: their pricing reflects the therapeutic benefits uncertainty see page 36. and small number of patients covered by targeted treatments.
The global healthcare market continues to grow, despite signs of Government and payer budgets remain subject to increasing reviews economic slowdown in some countries.
Worldwide pharmaceutical as demand for healthcare grows, due to demographic change, the 2 sales totalled 731 billion from September 20172018, up 5%.
push for universal health coverage and advances in preventive care North America remains the largest pharmaceutical market with and treatment.
Despite this, innovative medicines that are clearly 3 a 47% share of global sales, with Europe representing 16%.
differentiated in areas of unmet medical need will continue to China is the second largest individual country for pharmaceutical attract strong coverage and funding in developed markets.
3 sales, representing 8% of global sales.
Global vaccine sales In the US, there is variability in how drugs are funded and reimbursed 4 rose to approximately 20.6 billion in 2018, up 7.3% from 2017. across insurance programmes.
The current administration is Global consumer healthcare sales are estimated to be undergoing a comprehensive review of drug pricing.
it published the drug pricing Blue Print in an effort to lower prices of pharmaceutical medicines for patients across the US.
The Blue Print Global trends: opportunities and challenges focuses on improved competition, better government negotiation, incentives for lower list prices and lowering out-of-pocket costs for Positive demographics patients.
The administration aims to achieve this through a number Demographic change is driving demand for both preventive and of mechanisms, such as limiting rebates, introducing international therapeutic healthcare products.
People are living longer, with reference pricing to compare domestic drug prices with other the number of over 65-year-olds due to double between 2017 countries, value-based pricing pilots and reform of Medicare.
and 2050, and the global population is expanding, with the In Europe and emerging markets, international reference pricing worldwide headcount due to grow by more than 1 billion between continues to gain traction, with over 70 markets now involved 2015 and 2030, to 8.5 billion.
Increasing affluence, changing globally, although many countries continue to negotiate confidential diets and lifestyles and longer lifespans are all contributing to contracts with manufacturers.
Increasingly, countries are also rising demand for healthcare, especially in areas such as cancer cooperating on pricing, procurement and health technology and respiratory disease.
assessments HTAs, which assess the clinical and costAdvances in science and technology effectiveness and broader impacts of healthcare treatments.
Rapid advances in science and technology are transforming A new HTA regulation has been proposed in Europe that would healthcare and increasing the probability of success in R&D.
centralise the clinical assessments of new medicines and medical Better understanding of human biology and genetics is enabling devices.
This is now going through the legislative process.
scientists to identify and develop novel, targeted treatments and In China, the authorities accelerated progress towards bringing vaccines.
Advances in digital technology, data and analytics innovative treatments to market.
This included increasing the meanwhile allow researchers to explore and interpret a greater pace and frequency of reimbursement coverage, especially volume of data much faster than before.
The insights gained are for oncology drugs.
accelerating and improving the development of preventive and therapeutic medicines and vaccines, and enabling manufacturers In Japan, the government continues to seek to expedite and and purchasers of healthcare products to better measure their expand drug development.
However, in 2018 a significant reduction effectiveness.
Technology is also now central to the way people in the price maintenance premium, which exempts certain innovative discover, assess and buy healthcare products, with 2018 US medicines from annual price reductions, eroded price stability research suggesting that 75% of consumers surveyed consider and plans to introduce a new HTA system have created further that technology plays an important part in managing their uncertainty.
1 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2019.
2 The volatility of the 2018 sterling exchange rate, and revised data collection methods at research provider IQVIA, mean that this years global figure is not entirely comparable with 2017 738 billion.
10 GSK Annual Report 2018 Industry trends continued Regulatory environment Our strategic response Healthcare is a highly regulated industry, reflecting public Our strategy to bring differentiated, high-quality and needed expectations that products comply to stringent levels of quality, healthcare products to as many people as possible, with our three safety and efficacy.
Governments are increasingly extending the global businesses, scientific and technical know-how and talented regulatory remit to support accelerated development and the people is designed to respond to these trends.
Our long-term introduction of new medicines with, for example, China, Japan and priorities, underpinned by our culture, will help us deliver our strategy: the US recently introducing regulatory approaches to encourage pharmaceutical innovation.
Meanwhile, work on cross-border Innovation: we invest in scientific and technical excellence to harmonisation of pharmaceutical regulation is increasing through develop and launch a pipeline of new products that meet the needs supra-national bodies such as the International Conference of of patients, payers and consumers.
Drug Regulatory Authorities and the International Council for Performance: we deliver growth based performance by investing Harmonisation.
In this context, the healthcare industry supports effectively in our business, developing our people and executing close cooperation on medicine regulation systems and processes competitively.
between the UK and EU after Brexit.
Trust: we are a responsible company and commit to use our science Competition and technology to address health needs, make our products The healthcare sector remains intensely competitive, with companies affordable and available and be a modern employer.
increasingly pursuing acquisitions and collaborations to strengthen We are making important progress on these long-term priorities their pipelines and portfolios.
In 2018, notable M&A activity see page 7, which is enabling us to respond to the dynamic included Takedas $59 billion acquisition of Shire Pharmaceuticals.
environment in which we operate.
To harness advances in science This momentum continued in early 2019, with Bristol-Myers Squibb and technology, we are forming partnerships to bring groundannouncing its intention to buy Celgene for $74 billion.
breaking products to patients faster.
We aim to manage pricing Intellectual property IP protection is important to continue to pressure by researching and developing differentiated medicines incentivise innovation.
This helps research-based healthcare that will attract the greatest coverage and funding, and by pricing companies ensure a reasonable return on their investments and our medicines according to the value and outcomes they bring to allows them to continue to conduct research, and develop new and patients, providers and payers.
We are committed to building trust innovative medicines.
Once IP protection expires, or if challenges by addressing societal expectations and by operating responsibly to a patent are upheld, generic competitors can rapidly capture and transparently.
a large share of the market.
Vaccines and other biologics do not face such exposure to generic competition through these patent cliffs.
They are complex and more dependent on technical manufacturing processes.
In consumer healthcare, the over-the-counter OTC sector has seen the greatest consolidation while, in fast moving consumer goods FMCG, lower barriers to entry and fewer regulatory hurdles have seen the rise of niche and e-commerce based companies focusing successfully on fast-adapting consumer trends.
Societal expectations Public trust in all large institutions including media, governments, NGOs and businesses remains low, by historical standards, particularly in developed markets, making it an important issue for businesses as they face growing public scrutiny.
Society increasingly expects companies to earn their trust by demonstrating integrity, fairness and transparency, and by making a positive contribution to the wider community.
The pharmaceutical sector still suffers from a trust deficit as a result of past challenges in relation to sales and marketing practices and ethics and compliance issues.
Concern is also rising about the safeguarding of personal data.
In Europe, new legislation has tightened regulations on how companies can use personal information.
Loss or inappropriate use of data could have major consequences for both individuals and businesses.
There is a continuing focus on issues such as diversity, ranging from equal pay to representation at senior management.
The environment, particularly climate change, ocean protection and plastic waste, are issues where there is increased public concern and pressure for action.
Companies are also under increasing scrutiny on their tax affairs, including their contribution and transparency.
To be successful companies must operate in a way that meets the expectations of, and creates long-term value for, their wide range of stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.
