13 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals Our Pharmaceuticals business has a broad portfolio of innovative and established medicines, with leadership positions in respiratory and HIV.
We are strengthening our pipeline through a focus on immunology, human genetics and advanced technologies to help us identify the most promising new medicines.
Progress against our long-term priorities Innovation Performance Trust New R&D approach with a focus on Total 2018 turnover 17.3 billion, Approval of tafenoquine, the first science related to the immune system, flat AER, up 2% CER new treatment for P. vivax malaria human genetics and advanced in 60 years New Respiratory product sales technologies 2.6 billion, up 35% AER, 38% CER: Partnering to increase access to 1 Strengthened pipeline with 33 of 46 HIV sales 4.7 billion, up 9% AER, paediatric formulations of our HIV medicines in development targeting 11% CER medicines modulation of the immune system Refined the priority markets in Trained over 15,000 healthcare Accelerated our oncology pipeline by which we target our resources to professionals across 21 countries doubling the number of assets in clinical accelerate growth on the appropriate use of antibiotics development via advancing key internal Simplified our Pharmaceuticals assets, e. g. GSK 916, and targeted supply chain, separating it from business development, e. g. acquisition Consumer Healthcare, to improve of Tesaro and the proposed alliance competitiveness with Merck KGaA.
Launched Juluca, the first two-drug HIV regimen, and expanded indications for Trelegy Ellipta and Nucala Innovation To strengthen our pipeline and deliver the next generation of HIV medicines that we see bringing the greatest value to patients, We have a long-standing commitment to advancing the treatment, we are embedding a new approach to R&D.
prevention and cure of HIV by developing medicines that suppress or prevent the virus in new ways and help reduce the burden of This approach focuses on science related to the immune system, treatment.
Our HIV business is managed through ViiV Healthcare, the use of human genetics, and advanced technologies, and is driven a global specialist HIV company that GSK controls as majority by the multiplier effect of Science x Technology x Culture.
It will owner, with Pfizer and Shionogi also as shareholders.
Its broad help us to accelerate the pace at which we develop and deliver portfolio of 13 antiretroviral medicines offers a wide range of transformational medicines, prioritising those molecules with a higher therapeutic options for people living with HIV.
They include the probability of success and terminating less promising programmes.
highly successful therapies, Tivicay and Triumeq, which are based It will also enable us to increase our focus on specialty medicines on dolutegravir, the world-leading core agent.
in areas such as oncology.
Marking a new era in HIV care, Juluca, the first two-drug regimen We have a broad clinical pipeline including 46 potential new 2DR, once-daily, single-pill for the treatment of HIV, has now medicines in development for a range of diseases.
This includes 1 been launched in the US, Japan and several European markets.
16 oncology assets double the number we had at the start of By containing fewer drugs than conventional HIV therapies, 2018.
33 of our potential new medicines are immunomodulators, Juluca and the other potential 2DRs in the pipeline reduces reflecting our scientific focus on immunology as the area where patients exposure to multiple medicines during what is often we see the greatest potential.
In 2019, we anticipate phase III data life-long treatment.
read-outs in key areas including HIV, oncology and respiratory.
In 2018, we filed regulatory submissions in the US and Europe for For us to focus more effectively and ensure we rapidly progress another single-tablet 2DR, of dolutegravir and lamivudine.
These only the best assets, our culture encourages smart risk-taking and followed the phase III GEMINI 1 & 2 studies which demonstrated single-point accountable decision making.
Dr Hal Barron, Chief similar efficacy for the 2DR compared with traditional three-drug Scientific Officer and President, R&D, has been instrumental in regimens.
Decisions on regulatory approvals are anticipated in 2019. driving scientific innovation since he joined GSK in January 2018.
1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.
14 GSK Annual Report 2018 Pharmaceuticals continued We made further progress with the investigational once-monthly, Clinical trials to assess the use of Zejula as a monotherapy and in long-acting injectable 2DR of cabotegravir and rilpivirine, a new combinations for the significantly larger opportunity of first line option for patients that avoids daily, oral treatment.
The LATTE-2 maintenance treatment of ovarian cancer are under way.
Results study showed high rates of virologic response and long-term from the first of these studies, PRIMA, are expected in late 2019. durability over a three-year period, while the FLAIR and ATLAS Zejula is also being investigated as a possible treatment in lung, studies both demonstrated similar efficacy to Triumeq with a breast and prostate cancer, both as a monotherapy and in once-monthly injection.
Regulatory filing with the FDA is planned combination with other medicines.
In addition to Zejula, Tesaro in 2019. has several other oncology assets in its pipeline including a PD-1 inhibitor TSR-042, dostarlimab currently being studied In other research, the INSPIRING phase IIIb study demonstrated for endometrial cancer.
We expect pivotal data that could support the efficacy and safety of a dolutegravir-based treatment regimen a regulatory filing of dostarlimab in the second half of 2019. in HIV and tuberculosis co-infected patients.
In January 2019, we announced a proposed global strategic alliance A phase III study of fostemsavir on heavily  with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, to jointly develop and patients with HIV, whose current antiretroviral medicines are commercialise M7824 bintrafusp alfa.
M7824 is an investigational proving inadequate, also delivered positive results.
An application bifunctional fusion protein immunotherapy that is currently in clinical for regulatory approval of fostemsavir is expected to be filed in 2019. development, including potential registration studies, for multiple Oncology difficult-to-treat cancers.
This includes a phase II trial to investigate M7824 compared with pembrolizumab as a first line treatment in Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the developed world.
patients with PD-L1 expressing advanced non-small cell lung cancer We are focused on delivering transformational therapies for people NSCLC.
Our pipeline is focused on immuno-oncology, cell therapy and cancer epigenetics.
In 2018, we made significant We have completed the transition of the NY-ESO SPEAR T-cell progress by doubling the number of oncology assets in clinical therapy programme to GSK from Adaptimmune.
Early trial data 1 development to 16.
Our goal is to achieve a sustainable flow of suggests that this asset could be transformational in synovial sarcoma.
new treatments based on a diversified portfolio of investigational It is the first cell therapy to show clinical response in solid tumours and medicines utilising modalities such as small molecules, antibodies, is another recipient of European PRIME and FDA breakthrough status.
antibody drug conjugates and cells, either alone or in combination.
Another of our oncology therapies is an agonistic antibody for Our antibody drug conjugate targeting BCMA, GSK 2857916, inducible T-cell costimulator ICOS the first investigational has the potential to target multiple myeloma.
It has been granted anti-ICOS agonist antibody to enter human clinical trials.
Phase I European PRIME and FDA breakthrough status, potentially enabling safety, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, for the therapy faster regulatory review, and has also been recognised as an orphan alone and in combination with pembrolizumab, show early, positive drug.
Despite advances in treatment of multiple myeloma over the last indications of activity.
decade, there remains no cure and high unmet need.
We have an Respiratory extensive development plan exploring use in the fourth to first line settings.
In fourth line, following encouraging efficacy data from the We have led the way in developing innovative medicines that advance DREAMM-1 study, we initiated the pivotal DREAMM-2 study which the management of asthma and COPD for nearly 50 years.
Over the was fully recruited by October 2018.
Data is expected in mid-2019 past five years, we have launched six respiratory medicines, giving us with potential regulatory submissions by year end.
The second line the broadest portfolio of once-daily, inhaled respiratory medicines in DREAMM-6 pilot study looking at use in combination with standard our industry.
The results which will be available in In 2018, we launched Trelegy Ellipta in 26 countries.
We are now 2019 will inform future pivotal studies.
The DREAMM-5 pilot study class leaders in key markets including the US, UK and France.
looking at first line use in relapsed and refractory patients is planned Following the landmark IMPACT trial in which Trelegy Ellipta to start in 2019. demonstrated superiority to two of our dual medicines on multiple In 2018, we accelerated the strengthening of our pipeline with the endpoints, expanded indications were approved in the US and acquisition of Tesaro, an oncology-focused biopharmaceutical Europe, enabling use across a broader group of COPD patients.
Tesaros major marketed product, Zejula, is an oral poly We submitted regulatory filings for Trelegy Ellipta in Japan and ADP ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor approved in the US and China the first for a single inhaler triple therapy for COPD in both Europe for adults with recurrent ovarian cancer.
Further launches are planned throughout 2019.
Results are transforming the treatment of ovarian cancer, demonstrating from our phase III CAPTAIN study, which is exploring the efficacy marked clinical benefit in patients with and without germline and safety of Trelegy Ellipta in asthma, are anticipated in 2019. mutations in a BRCA gene.
We believe they also offer significant Our Ellipta portfolio was further strengthened with an expanded opportunities for treating patients with many other cancer types.
indication for Relvar Ellipta in asthma, and applications to support label updates in the US and Europe for Anoro Ellipta and Incruse Ellipta.
15 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our first-in-class severe eosinophilic asthma biologic, Nucala, Advanced technologies gained approval in Europe as the first anti-interleukin IL-5 with a paediatric indication, alongside its earlier approval for adults.
Significant investment in a wide range of advanced technologies We also filed regulatory submissions for a paediatric licence in is central to our new R&D approach.
We are developing a core the US, and in the EU and US for a new formulation of Nucala capability in artificial intelligence and machine learning, to enhance that could be used subcutaneously to allow patients or caregivers our ability to interpret and understand genetics and genomic data.
We will also invest in functional genomics, applying techniques for gene modification such as CRISPR technology, to help discover We continue to innovate in respiratory biologics, with investigational and validate potential targets.
These investments supplement our programmes for Nucala in nasal polyps and hypereosinophilic existing strengths in other advanced technologies, including our syndrome.
leading position in cell and gene therapy, which we continue Immuno-inflammation to develop.
Benlysta is the worlds first and only biologic medicine specifically Partnerships are key to our innovation.
In 2018, we formed an approved to treat systemic lupus erythematosus SLE, a chronic, exclusive collaboration with 23andMe, the worlds leading consumer incurable, autoimmune disease.
Building on data from four previous genetics and research company.
This will combine our scientific phase III clinical trials, we presented results from the phase II PLUTO and medical knowledge with 23andMes large-scale genetic study exploring use in paediatric patients with childhood-onset SLE.
resources and unique data science skills, improving the probability In addition, the pivotal phase III BLISS studies showed low rates of of R&D success.
This exciting collaboration builds on our existing organ damage progression in SLE patients treated with Benlysta.
partnerships, such as the Altius Institute, which pioneers new technologies and approaches for decoding gene control: the UK Results from the phase IV EMBRACE study of black adult patients Biobank, which is generating anonymised genetic sequence data with active,  SLE are expected in 2019.
We also from 500,000 volunteers, and the Open Targets consortium, which began a new phase III study investigating Benlysta in combination supports an open access search engine that searches, evaluates with rituximab in adult patients with SLE.
This is assessing whether and integrates biologic and genetic disease data.
co-administration enhances Benlystas treatment effect, to potentially provide sustained disease control, with the possibility of clinical remission.
Headline results are expected in 2020.
Improving R&D governance We are continuing research into our anti-GM-CSF antibody for We have established two new governance boards, the Research patients with rheumatoid arthritis and expect to progress to phase III Review Board RRB and the Development Review Board DRB.
The RRB is accountable for our future portfolio, providing technical Additional programmes review on the quality of our research and early-stage programmes.
The DRB reviews late-stage programmes to make sure our studies In 2018, we received approvals in the US and Australia for Krintafel are robust and innovative.
Kozenis tafenoquine, the first new treatment for P. vivax malaria in over 60 years see page 25.
Aligned to these changes, we have created separate organisations In Japan, we announced positive phase III results for daprodustat, for research and for development to enable rigorous and disciplined an oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, in patients decision-making and oversight across the early and late stage with anaemia associated with chronic kidney disease, and a strategic portfolio.
Due to their specialist nature, we have kept distinct R&D collaboration with the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Company for its future units for oncology and global health.
In addition, we have two ongoing daprodustat To support the most promising potential medicines in the portfolio phase III studies which are anticipated to report in 2020. we terminated or divested around 80 programmes.
Terminations included danirixin, miridesap and dezamizumab.
We also transferred We also continue to develop gepotidacin, the first in a new class our rare disease gene therapy portfolio to Orchard Therapeutics, of antibiotics.
in which we have become an equity shareholder, and sold the rights to tapinarof to Dermavant Sciences.
16 GSK Annual Report 2018 Pharmaceuticals continued Pharmaceuticals pipeline overview We have 46 assets in development, with 33 immunomodulators of which 16 are focused on oncology.
We expect a number of pivotal readouts in 2019.
Phase Compound Indication 1 2 Pivotal registration Benlysta Rituxan SLE 2 1 cabotegravir LA rilpivirine LA HIV D3, dolutegravir lamivudine HIV 1278863 daprodustat HIF-PHI anaemia 3684934 fostemsavir HIV AI HIV Nucala COPD HES nasal polyps 1 Trelegy Ellipta asthma 1,4 Dectova IV influenza 1 1 2857916 BCMA ADC multiple myeloma 1 2 Zejula PARP inhibitor first-line maintenance ovarian cancer 1 dostarlimab PD-1 antagonist endometrial cancer 1 Phase II 3196165 GM-CSF inhibitor RA 1 1 3389404 3228836 HBV ASO HBV 1 3359609 ICOS receptor agonist cancer 2982772 RIP1k inhibitor pso RA UC 1 3772847 IL33r antagonist severe asthma 1 3377794 NY-ESO-1 TCR cancer 1 2586881 rhACE2 acute lung injury PAH 2140944 gepotidacin, topoisomerase IV inhibitor antibacterial 2330811 OSM antagonist systemic sclerosis 2881078 SARM COPD muscle weakness 2862277 TNFR1 antagonist acute lung injury 1 3174998 OX40 agonist cancer 525762 BET inhibitor cancer 2330672 IBAT inhibitor cholestatic pruritus 1 3326595 PRMT5 inhibitor cancer 1 GR121619 oxytocin postpartum haemorrhage 1 TSR-022 TIM-3 antagonist cancer 1,3 2 M7824 TGF trap anti PD-L1 bispecific NSCLC 1 Phase I 2831781 LAG3 ulcerative colitis 1 3358699 BET targeted inhibitor RA 1 3858279 CCL17 antagonist OA 2636771 PI3kb inhibitor cancer 2983559 RIP2k inhibitor IBD 1 3036656 leucyl t-RNA inhibitor TB 3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV 1 3511294 IL5 LA antagonist asthma 2292767 PI3kd inhibitor respiratory diseases 1795091 TLR4 agonist cancer 1 3810109 broadly neutralizing antibody HIV 1 3537142 NYESO1 ImmTAC cancer 1 3439171 HPGD2 inhibitor muscle repair 3145095 RIP1k inhibitor pancreatic cancer 1 3368715 PRMT1 inhibitor cancer 1 TSR-033 LAG3 cancer 2269557 nemiralisib PI3Kd inhibitor APDS Includes programmes in pivotal phases of development or where pivotal data has reported and regulatory submissions are under consideration or under review.
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party.
2 Additional indications also under investigation.
3 Pending closure of transaction with Merck, KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
Note: for oncology where phase I studies are conducted in patients, the shift from phase I to phase II is defined when expansion cohorts are started.
17 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Performance In recent years, we have significantly strengthened our online 2018 performance summary resources and in-house medical capabilities to provide bespoke Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2018 was 17,269 million, flat at product information for healthcare professionals HCPs.
In 2018, AER, but up 2% CER, driven primarily by the growth in HIV sales.
we updated our policy on working with HCPs, following consistent In the US, sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% at CER, with feedback that they value the opportunity to learn about new products growth in the HIV portfolio and Benlysta offsetting declines in through peer-to-peer programmes with expert practitioners who have established pharmaceuticals and respiratory following patent direct experience of our medicines.
In Europe, sales grew 2% AER, 1% CER, with growth The new policy will ensure prescribers have access to all available in the respiratory portfolio offsetting the continued impact of information on our innovative products, so they can make fully generic competition to Epzicom and Avodart.
International was informed decisions that support better outcomes for patients.
flat at AER but grew 5% CER, with growth driven by HIV and When we have new medicines or significant new data we will allow the new respiratory portfolio.
payment to global experts to speak about the scientific evidence, the diseases they treat and their own clinical experience.
The change Respiratory sales declined 1% AER, but grew 1% CER, to 6,928 was implemented in the US and Japan in late 2018, and depending million, with growth from the Ellipta portfolio and Nucala partly offset on effective implementation and assessment of risk will be by lower sales of Seretide Advair as the market prepares for the entry implemented in other major developed markets in Europe, North of a generic.
Sales of new respiratory products, comprising Ellipta America and Asia from 2019 onwards.
To avoid any perceived products and Nucala, grew 35% AER, 38% CER to 2,612 million.
conflict of interest, we have strengthened our commitment to HIV sales increased 9% AER, 11% CER to 4,722 million, transparency with new controls and expanded disclosure of reflecting share growth in the dolutegravir portfolio: Triumeq, payments to individual HCPs.
This was partly offset by the decline in the established portfolio, particularly the impact of generic competition Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain to Epzicom Kivexa in Europe.
Immuno-inflammation sales were up 25% AER, 28% CER in 2018, Reliable supply is fundamental to enabling growth in key therapy primarily driven by Benlysta.
Our Pharmaceuticals supply performance levels continued to improve in 2018 with an on-time, in-full supply to customers Our Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio includes mainly off-patent rating of 95.3%.
All new products were launched on time.
Sales were 5,147 million, down 7% AER, 4% CER, reflecting efforts to maximise the value from this portfolio but also the We are adopting a simplified structure and operating model geared benefit of certain post-divestment contract manufacturing sales and to driving performance with increased focus on priority brands and the first instalment of a 12-month Relenza supply contract in Europe.
markets, clearer accountabilities and more pace.
This has included separating our Pharmaceuticals manufacturing and supply The Pharmaceuticals operating margin of 33.3% was 1.0 percentage organisation from our Consumer Healthcare network.
points lower at AER than in 2017 and 0.9 percentage points lower on a CER basis.
This primarily reflected increased investment in new We continued to adapt our manufacturing network to support product support, the continued impact of lower prices, particularly growth, improve competitiveness and meet business and patient in respiratory, the broader transition of the respiratory portfolio, and needs.
We opened a 54 million facility in Montrose, Scotland to a reduction in royalty income.
This was partly offset by the benefits supply active pharmaceutical ingredients for our Ellipta respiratory of prioritisation within R&D and a favourable comparison with the medicines, and a 26 million facility in Parma, Italy that will produce impact of the Priority Review Voucher purchased in 2017. fostemsavir, our investigational HIV treatment.
We revised our supply and demand, warehousing and distribution Focusing our resources to accelerate growth operations to align with commercial priorities and announced manufacturing site closures in Mexico and Bangladesh.
Following In 2018, we made significant changes to the way our Pharmaceuticals an extensive review of our cephalosporins antibiotics assets we organisation works to accelerate growth and deliver the best results decided to restructure its supply chain and manufacturing site at for all our stakeholders.
This will help us improve competitiveness and We refocused our resources, prioritising the major markets such support growth in emerging markets.
We continued to simplify our as the US and China, while reducing investment in lower priority supplier base and product portfolio and are ahead of schedule to markets.
We have also prioritised resource behind brands and reduce our contract manufacturers by 35% by 2021. therapies with the greatest growth potential and which generate The Pharmaceuticals manufacturing and supply organisation again the highest revenue.
To support our ambitions for the oncology delivered good performance for safety, quality and compliance.
therapies in our pipeline, we strengthened our oncology commercial There were 55 regulatory inspections in 2018, all resulting in infrastructure: recruiting more experts in oncology and haematology satisfactory outcomes.
and co-locating our R&D and commercial teams.
We simplified our commercial, medical and regulatory teams, with fewer complex structures, systems and processes, and clearer accountabilities.
This enables greater speed and efficiency and frees local operating companies to focus on customer-facing activities and insights.
The savings released by these changes will be reinvested into our priority products and markets.
