43 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our approach to tax We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount The Groups Total tax rate of 15.7% 2017 38.5% for 2018 was of tax, and fully support efforts to ensure that companies are lower than the Adjusted tax rate as the Total tax charge includes the appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are managed.
effect of a reduced estimate of the 2017 impact of US tax reform, Tax is an important element of the economic contribution we bring to following additional guidance being released by the IRS, and a the countries in which we operate.
We do not engage in artificial tax re-assessment of estimates of uncertain tax positions following the arrangements those without business or commercial substance.
settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities.
We do not seek to avoid tax by the use of tax havens or transactions In 2018, there has been an ongoing public focus on the tax affairs of we would not fully disclose to a tax authority.
We have a zero multinational companies as well as the continued focus on tax reform.
tolerance approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
This has been driven by the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting We have a substantial business and employment presence in BEPS project and European Commission initiatives such as fiscal many countries around the globe and we pay a significant amount state aid investigations.
The outputs from the OECD BEPS projects of tax, including corporation and other business taxes, as well as clarified the important principle that tax should be paid on profits tax associated with our employees.
At the same time, we have a throughout the supply chain, where the profit-making activity takes responsibility to our shareholders to be financially efficient and place.
GSK is subject to taxation throughout its supply chain.
As part of this approach we look to GSK supports the BEPS proposals, in particular the implementation align our investment strategies to those countries where we already of the OECDs recommendations on Country by Country Reporting, have substantial economic activity, and where government policies including the exchange of this data between tax authorities.
This promote regimes which are attractive to business investment and data, validated against existing information held on taxpayers, will R&D activity, and are transparent in their intent and available to all support their ability to ensure that multinational groups pay an relevant tax payers.
Examples include the UK Patent Box and appropriate amount of tax.
Research and Development Expenditure Credit.
The detailed tax implications of Brexit are dependent on the outcome Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies and processes to of negotiations between the UK and EU, and are therefore currently ensure that we have alignment across our business and compliance unknown.
However, we continue to work closely with the ABPI and with tax legislation.
Our Audit & Risk Committee and the Board are BIA to analyse the potential implications for the industry in order to responsible for approving our tax policies and risk management highlight key focus areas for the Government as part of its Brexit approach.
The direct tax implications, in particular, are expected We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments to be limited for GSK while the indirect tax implications may be more and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate significant, including potential customs duty costs and additional on taxation policy.
transaction or administrative costs associated with managing import and export obligations on the movement of goods between the UK In 2018, the Group corporate tax charge was 754 million and the EU.
Our approach to Brexit is set out on page 36.
2017 1,356 million on profits before tax of 4,800 million 2017 3,525 million representing an effective tax rate of 15.7% Our Tax Strategy is set out in detail within the Public Policy positions 2017 38.5%.
We made cash tax payments of 1,326 million in section of our website.
Further details about our corporate tax the year 2017 1,340 million.
In addition to the taxes we pay on charges for the year are set out on page 161. our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional and employment taxes.
Subject to any material changes in our product mix, or other material changes in tax regulations or laws in the countries in which we operate, and reflecting the ongoing impact of US tax reform, the Groups effective Adjusted tax rate for 2019 and the next several years is expected to be around 19%.
