12 GSK Annual Report 2018 Our business model We discover, develop and manufacture innovative pharmaceutical medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
Our operations span the value chain, from identifying and researching ground-breaking discoveries, through development and testing to regulatory approval, manufacturing and commercialisation.
Our resources: How we create value: The value we create: Talented employees For patients and Our purpose Our people help deliver consumers our purpose with their We improve the To help people do more, feel better, live longer scientific and technical health of patients and know-how and their consumers around expertise in regulation, the world through our intellectual property and innovative medicines, Our long-term priorities commercialisation vaccines and consumer see page 28. healthcare products see pages 13, 18, 21.
Innovation Performance Trust For investors Partnerships We deliver growth Business development helps based performance strengthen our pipeline and Through our three global businesses we and in 2018 we paid a complement our in-house dividend of 80p per resources.
We have important improve health and create financial value: share to shareholders relationships with external see pages 17, 20, 22. organisations, suppliers and Invest in scientific research third parties see page 11.
We invested 3.9 billion in research and For employees development to bring new medicines, vaccines We employ 95,490 and consumer healthcare products to patients, people globally and payers and consumers.
offer a broad range Access to capital Generate revenue and profit of benefits, including Cash, equity and debt We generate revenue by executing new product preventative healthcare enables us to invest in launches brilliantly and from the sales of our services for all our business over the existing portfolios.
employees, to attract, long term see page 57.
Reinvest and distribute returns retain and motivate As part of our capital allocation framework we the best people to reinvest in our three businesses and also provide support our business.
returns to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Culture We are committed to building a culture with greater performance focus underpinned by our values and expectations.
Our values Our expectations Patient focus Transparency Respect Integrity Courage Accountability Development Teamwork
