21 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare Our Consumer Healthcare business combines science and consumer insights to develop innovative everyday healthcare brands for oral health, pain relief, respiratory, skin health, nutrition and digestive health categories.
In 2018, we reached agreement with Pfizer to combine our consumer healthcare businesses into a new world-leading joint venture.
Progress against our long-term priorities Innovation Performance Trust Worldwide rollout of Sensodyne Total 2018 turnover 7.7 billion, Supply chain service levels continued Rapid Relief, Voltaren No Mess and down 1% AER, up 2% CER to improve, achieving 98% on-time, parodontax Corsodyl in-full delivery performance Bought out Novartis 36.5% stake Science-based innovations included in Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture Five-year partnership with Smile Train Theraflu PowerPods and a Polident for 9.2 billion launched to help more children access denture care range life-changing cleft lip and palate surgery Agreement with Pfizer to combine our New digital innovation hub established consumer healthcare businesses into Continued our partnership with Allied to accelerate innovations in self-care a new world-leading joint venture Against Dengue in India and South East Asia to prevent outbreaks of Announced the sale of Horlicks dengue fever and other consumer nutrition brands to Unilever Employee engagement score increased to 81% Innovation We delivered 36 first market launches across our categories and In pain relief, we continued the rollout of Voltaren No Mess in an 250 roll outs of new products.
In 2018, the proportion of our sales additional 17 markets in 2018, including Russia, UK, Australia, Italy from innovations introduced in the past three years was 11%.
The innovative No Mess cap was designed to address a key consumer barrier to using topical pain relief and makes the product easier and less messy to apply.
Delivering best-in-class innovation In digestive health, we launched two extensions of our Tums brand.
We use deep consumer insights and scientific and technical expertise Tums Gas Relief which offers consumers multi-symptom relief from to deliver innovations across each of our categories.
For example, heartburn as well as gas, was introduced in our chewy bites format in oral health, we further strengthened our leadership in denture care which is the preferred format for the growing number of younger with the delivery of two innovations to improve the experience for consumers entering this category.
We also introduced a sugar-free denture wearers.
We addressed a consumer need for an easy, version of Tums in 2018 for consumers looking to reduce their overall discreet denture-cleaning solution with the launch of Polident Clean daily sugar intake.
& Refresh wipes, which can be used anywhere without the need Building industry-leading capabilities for water.
The wipes combine a unique and patented combination of tear-resistant tissue and a double mint solution, offering consumers Each of our main categories is supported by a dedicated global a quick and effective clean and improved denture confidence.
innovation hub, where our scientists work in close partnership with In addition, our new denture adhesive, Polident Max Seal, has an commercial teams.
This means that R&D in each of our hubs is both innovative precision nozzle with a finer tip which enables exactly the science-based and consumer-led and helps speed new innovations right amount of fixative to be applied, creating a precise seal around to market.
The networks footprint in Europe, the US and Asia, also the edge of the denture for a more comfortable eating experience.
enables us to stay close and relevant to all global trends and The successful rollout of Sensodyne Rapid Relief, a premium markets.
extension of our Sensodyne brand, continued.
Launched in 2017, Our Consumer Sensory Labs enable us to listen to, understand it is designed to provide fast relief from tooth sensitivity in as little and meet the needs of consumers.
Scientists and commercial teams as 60 seconds.
During 2018, we introduced it in an additional in these labs assess consumer reactions to products during the 40 markets, including the US, Italy, Argentina, New Zealand and development process to help improve existing products and develop Egypt bringing the total number of successful market launches new ones.
During the year, we brought the capabilities of our sensory to more than 90. labs closer to our markets via labs in the US, the UK and India so In respiratory, consumer insight inspired the packaging innovation that we can understand consumer preferences in different parts behind Theraflu PowerPods, a new extension of Theraflu, our of the world.
For example, we developed Otrivin Unblock & Heal in respiratory power brand.
Theraflu PowerPods, which were launched in response to consumer need for a medicated spray that both relieves the US, contain cold and flu relief medicine or active ingredients within the congestion and nasal dryness that can accompany a cold and a pod that can be used in single-serve coffee makers.
This format is also helps fight the virus.
We launched this triple-action spray in much more convenient for US consumers, who rarely use kettles.
22 GSK Annual Report 2018 Consumer Healthcare continued The increasing use of digital technology is revolutionising the way External partnerships that consumers learn about, buy, and use healthcare products.
In 2018, we created a new London-based consumer healthcare By combining the insights and expertise of our scientists with digital innovation hub.
The hub is a close partnership of commercial, breakthrough ideas developed externally, we can develop and deliver technology and R&D, focused on identifying and accelerating a strong, competitive pipeline of consumer-led, science-based innovations in our categories to develop digitally driven brands, innovation.
Since 2016, the percentage of innovation sales coming products and services that consumers can use to monitor, manage from externally sourced product innovation has increased fivefold.
and improve their own health.
In 2018, products from external partnerships accounted for 11% of innovation sales, including Otrivin Unblock & Heal.
During the year, we entered into over 30 external R&D partnerships and our aim is Emerging markets opportunities that they will make up 30% of our pipeline in the future.
More than one-third of our sales are in emerging markets, where increasing prosperity is boosting the proportion of middle-class consumers and, in turn, the demand for consumer healthcare.
Our innovation hubs in India and China are at the forefront of our efforts to understand and meet this growing consumer need, and to remain competitive in these important markets.
In India, we entered the high protein drink category with the launch of Horlicks Protein Plus which blends quality, fast and slow release proteins with its high level of amino acids, enabling the product to develop stronger science-based claims than its competitors.
Performance In pain relief, sales were flat.
Low single-digit growth in Voltaren, 2018 performance summary supported by the roll-out of Voltaren No Mess in 20 markets, and double-digit growth in Fenbid were offset by a decline in Panadol Our marketing and innovation resources are targeted on the sales due to a change in the route-to-market model in South East brands which deliver the strongest growth and highest returns Asia and the discontinuation of slow-release Panadol products in our seven global power brands, including Sensodyne, Voltaren, the Nordic countries.
Panadol and Theraflu, and our 12 regional core brands, such as Tums and Excedrin.
Together, these brands drive performance Nutrition sales declined 5% AER but grew 1% CER to 643 million.
of Consumer Healthcare and reinforce our global leadership The nutrition business in India performed strongly across the product in pain relief, respiratory and therapeutic oral health.
portfolio including new innovations such as Horlicks Protein Plus.
Consumer Healthcare sales were 7,658 million, down 1% AER The impact of divestments and India GST implementation on nutrition and up 2% CER, with broad-based growth in oral health and category growth was approximately eight percentage points.
wellness partly offset by a decline in Panadol and lower sales Skin health sales were down 4% AER, 1% CER to 579 million.
International markets performed strongly, Consumer Healthcare operating margin of 19.8% was particularly India and Brazil, while Europe was impacted by 2.1 percentage points higher than in 2017 and 2.2 percentage intensifying competitive pressure in the second half of 2018. points higher on a CER basis.
This primarily reflected improved The aggregate impact from generic competition on Transderm product mix and manufacturing restructuring and integration Scop in the US, the divestment of Horlicks and MaxiNutrition benefits, as well as continued focus on delivering improved return in the UK and other small non-strategic brands and implementation on investment on our advertising and promotional spend.
of the Goods & Service Tax GST in India reduced overall sales growth by approximately one percentage point.
Strategic business development Oral health sales grew 1% AER, 4% CER to 2,496 million, as increased competitive pressures in Europe were offset by double During 2018, we made further progress against our Performance digit growth from Sensodyne in a number of International markets, priority to deliver sales growth, operating margin improvements including India and Turkey, and strong single-digit growth in the US and attractive returns, completing a 9.2 billion buyout of Novartis driven by Sensodyne Rapid Relief.
Our premium gum health brand 36.5% stake in GSK Consumer Healthcare in June.
parodontax Corsodyl became the worlds fastest growing global After conducting a strategic review of our nutrition portfolio, in toothpaste, outperforming the market four fold, driven by continued December we announced the sale of Horlicks and other consumer momentum in the US since its launch in 2017, and a strategic brand nutrition brands to Unilever.
As part of this transaction, we repositioning across 40 countries.
Our denture care brands outannounced that we will merge our 72.5% stake in GlaxoSmithKline performed the category, supported by innovations including Polident Consumer Healthcare Limited in India with Hindustan Unilever Max Seal and Polident Clean & Refresh, further strengthening our Limited.
The proposed merger includes a distribution arrangement, global leadership position.
which will allow Hindustan Unilever Limited to leverage its scale and Wellness sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% CER to strong reach to sell and distribute our OTC and oral health brands 3,940 million.
Respiratory sales grew in low single digits, led by in India.
This transaction is expected to close by the end of 2019.
Theraflu supported by a strong cold and flu season earlier in the year.
Otrivin grew in mid single digits, benefiting from new variants, and Flonase returned to growth following a weaker allergy season earlier this year.
23 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Most recently, we reached an agreement with Pfizer in December Winning with shoppers, customers and experts 2018 to combine our consumer healthcare businesses to create a new world-leading joint venture with combined sales of Expert endorsement builds trust in our brands and drives shopper approximately 9.8 billion.
This brings together two highly purchase decisions.
Sensodyne, for instance, is the number one complementary portfolios of trusted consumer healthcare brands, dentist-recommended brand for sensitivity in 80% of the markets in including GSKs Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol and Pfizers, which we compete.
Of our OTC brands 70% are sold in pharmacies.
The new combined business will We continued to prioritise our relationships with dentists and have leadership positions in pain relief, respiratory and vitamins, pharmacists and to invest in information that supports our products.
minerals and supplements in addition to our number one position In 2018, our expert sales representatives called on 400,000 dentists in therapeutic oral healthcare, and will be well positioned to deliver in over 90 markets to share relevant science-based information strong sales, cash flow and earnings growth.
and we published approximately 30 abstracts on our clinical trials and science.
Together, these moves provide confidence to improve our margin target to mid-to-high-20s by 2022, assuming the close of the Business partnering with retailers is key.
For example, our top six transaction with Pfizer.
This improvement is expected to be achieved customers in the US account for approximately 70% of our sales in part by delivering 0.5 billion of total annual costs savings through there.
We continue to develop our strong capabilities in joint the joint venture and additionally through delivery of a business-wide business planning, category management and distribution programme aimed at freeing up cash to improve returns to management to ensure we win with our retailers.
shareholders and reinvest in the business to drive growth.
This is Our Shopper Science Labs in the UK, US and Singapore use focused on four pillars: net revenue management to maximise the state-of-the-art technology to track shopper behaviour in real time value of our brands with shoppers and customers: cost and cash to provide us with rich insights on consumers shopping habits discipline enabled by zero-based budgeting: strategic resource around the world.
We have satellite facilities located by the allocation to focus our investments in the right areas to get the headquarters of our major retail partners.
These labs enable best returns: and increased efficiencies in our supply chain.
us to adapt the shopping experience to meet each consumers need and make decisions about what new products, promotions Joining forces with Pfizer Consumer Healthcare will be or packaging will really make a difference.
transformational to the scale of GSK Consumer Healthcare and lays the foundations for the new JV to be separated from GSK via a demerger.
This is expected to take place within three years Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain of closing the transaction with Pfizer, which we expect to occur in the second half of 2019, subject to approvals.
Further details on We have continued to strengthen our supply chain and reduce the risks associated to the transaction are set out on page 36. complexity to improve efficiency.
In addition, we have formally integrated it within our business, where previously some central resources and processes were shared between the Consumer Digital transformation Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals supply chains as a central unit.
By putting digital technology at the heart of our business, we aim We also reorganised our supply chain on a regional basis, more to deliver more meaningful interactions with consumers, fuel brand closely reflecting our commercial operations, to make it more growth and achieve efficiency savings.
In 2018, we invested responsive and agile.
strongly in our digital capabilities, including hiring expert new talent.
During 2018, we sold two sites Aiken, US and Slough, UK and Reflecting the far higher return on online media, compared with announced the closure of three more in Ireland, the US and the traditional television advertising, we significantly increased the Philippines as part of our commitment to remove complexity across digital balance of our marketing.
To streamline our media buying, our network and streamline our operations.
Overall, since 2015, we appointed one global media agency to oversee our digital and we have removed four sites from our supply chain network and offline paid media strategy and planning around the world.
We also announced the closure of another five.
We continued to streamline boosted our attractiveness in e-commerce channels by optimising the number of contract manufacturers CMOs we use and have the findability of our products, developing rich content for retailer reduced the number by almost 30% since 2015.
We continued portals, and securing high-profile ads on customers e-commerce to simplify our portfolio by further reducing the number of different sites.
To enrich our peoples digital skills, we rolled out a new ways that our products are packaged.
Marketing IQ development programme to 1,300 of our marketers.
Our manufacturing sites recorded a strong on-time in-full delivery Our digital impact is aided by innovative industry partnerships: performance, as service levels continued to improve.
Reflecting a collaboration with Google helps us deliver relevant content to this good performance, the supply chain successfully supported consumers, while a partnership with Chinese marketing and media our growing power brands and met business innovation targets organisation Alimama enables us to target shoppers with appropriate in full, including all first-market launches.
Our partnership with Google has driven We continued to drive and deliver robust performance in quality greater efficiency in our media targeting.
We drove 4.5 billion more and safety, with no issues arising from regulatory inspections.
viewable digital media impressions than the same investment would have generated in 2017, representing a 74% increase.
We also draw on invaluable external insights from our Digital Advisory Board DAB, which is made up of digital marketing, data and e-commerce experts.
Members of the GSK Consumer Healthcare strategic leadership team attend DAB meetings and benefit from the mentorship of a DAB member.
The role of the DAB is to challenge our thinking and help shape our digital strategy.
