44 GSK Annual Report 2018 Group financial review continued Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern evaluated: provision.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable Scenario 1: Business performance risks.
These include key expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, performance risks, including lower sales from new products: as they fall due, over the next three years.
The Directors assessment greater adverse impact from generic competition and other has been made with reference to GSKs current position and competitive launches to other GSK products: as well as prospects, our strategy, the Boards risk appetite and GSKs possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 34 and 35 in the Strategic report.
This assessment has been made Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks.
This scenario assuming no separation of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside Venture during the three-year period under consideration.
factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management impact of material negative changes in the macro-economic policies and approves our governance structure and code of and healthcare environment.
It also appraises and approves major financing, investment and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance Scenario 3: Principal risks.
This scenario includes a severe and prospects of GSK as a whole.
The focus is largely on improving assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal risks our long-term financial performance through delivery of our company related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity and three business strategies and aligned Innovation, Performance as well as anti-bribery and corruption and any consequent and Trust priorities.
regulatory actions or fines, all of which could fundamentally threaten our operations.
These risks are managed through The Board reviews GSKs strategy and makes significant capital mitigating activities described on pages 241 to 250. investment decisions over a long-term time horizon, based on a Scenario 4: Put option exercise.
This scenario evaluates the multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of the additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential company and three business units, and the market opportunity in exercise of the outstanding put option held by our partner in the the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors.
is aligned to GSKs model of achieving balanced growth by investing in high quality, innovative products for patients, consumers and healthcare providers.
However, since many internal and external The three-year review also makes certain assumptions about the parameters become increasingly unpredictable over longer time normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three-year additional financing facilities will be required and the respective level cycle.
The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who of funding flexibility and headroom.
approve business forecasts showing expected financial impact.
The Directors believe that a three-year assessment period for the Viability The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations of statement is most appropriate as it aligns with the Companys well these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding demands on established business planning processes that balance the long-term GSK and require mitigating changes to the Groups funding strategy.
nature of investments in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer However, in light of the liquidity available to the Group and based on sectors with an assessment of the period over which analysis of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even near-term business performance is realistically visible.
under these most severe stress tests, the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational three-year period of assessment.
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Boards review on risk.
These include the potential effects of Brexit, which are not expected to be material, although there may be some short-term disruption.
The downside scenarios consider GSKs cash flows, sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision and recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in combination, along with mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risk.
