126 GSK Annual Report 2018 Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 are Remuneration report and the Group and parent company financial included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
made available on our website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by be different.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Directors in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2018 have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the Group financial statements, which have been prepared applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report, for that period.
which represent the management report, include a fair review of In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: the development and performance of the business and the position select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a consistently: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are Disclosure of information to auditors reasonable and prudent: The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as confirmed that: adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Group financial statements: he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken state with regard to the parent company financial statements that as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent of that information.
company financial statements: and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Going concern basis The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Pages 38 to 64 contain information on the performance of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time borrowing facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report comply hedging activities, is given in Note 42 to the financial statements, with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial instruments and related disclosures.
Having assessed the They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group principal risks and other matters considered in connection with the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December statements.
2018, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out in the Financial statements on pages 140 to 218 of this report.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2018 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 219 to 222.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on pages 128 to 139.
127 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Directors statement of responsibilities continued Internal control The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 65 to 94.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Annual Report The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report, the Financial statements and Additional information for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Philip Hampton Chairman 11 March 2019
