91 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Science Committee report oversight of R&D projects portfolio governance: and Dr Jesse Goodman R&Ds culture, talent, capabilities and incentive arrangements.
Science Committee Chair In particular in 2018, the Committee reviewed the key features of Dr Barrons new approach to R&D, which focuses on science related to the immune system, the use of human genetics and Role advanced technologies to help identify the next generation of The Committee: transformational medicines for patients.
undertakes periodic reviews of R&D strategy and progress The Committee has reviewed several assets currently in clinical assesses the overall performance, including relevant development and notes the significant progress made to strengthen financial metrics, effectiveness and competitiveness of R&D the pharmaceuticals pipeline, particularly in the area of oncology.
The company currently has 46 assets in development, with 33 helps identify critical emerging trends in science and immunomodulators, of which 16 are focused on oncology.
In medicine and their potential impact on the company addition, the Committee has considered from a scientific perspective undertakes periodic reviews of the companys scientific and was pleased to recommend to the Board the following key capability and talent business development transactions: reviews the scientific opportunity in specific large scale Tesaro: strengthening the Pharmaceuticals pipeline with the investments or business transactions acquisition of this oncology-focused biopharmaceutical company.
reviews the output of the Groups science advisory boards.
It has a major marketed project, Zejula, which is an oral poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor approved in the US and Europe for adults with recurring ovarian cancer.
We believe PARP inhibitors Membership also offer significant opportunities for treating patients with many other cancer types.
Several other promising oncology assets were Committee members Committee member since also acquired as part of this transaction, including a PD-1 inhibitor Dr Jesse Goodman Chair from 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 dostarlimab currently being studied for endometrial cancer.
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 Judy Lewent 1 January 2017 23andMe: forming this exclusive collaboration with the worlds leading consumer genetics and research company.
This will Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 January 2017 until 3 May 2018 combine our scientific and medical knowledge with large-scale genetic resources and unique data science skills, improving the Details of the Committee members skills and experience are given in probability of R&D success.
their biographies under Our Board on pages 69 and 70.
See page 72 for Committee member attendance levels.
Merck: agreeing a proposed global strategic alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to jointly develop and commercialise The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee M7824.
This is an investigational bifunctional fusion protein and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee immunotherapy that is currently in clinical development, including meetings may include: potential registration studies, for multiple difficult-to-treat cancers.
Regular Attends as This includes a phase II trial to investigate M7824 compared with Attendee attendee required pembrolizumab as a first line treatment in patients with PD-L1 Company Chairman expressing advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Chief Executive Officer Committee evaluation Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D President, Global Vaccines The second annual evaluation of the Committee was internally Independent senior external scientific adviser s facilitated by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee Chief Financial Officer members on behalf of the Committee Chair.
In terms of Other company executives enhancements, as the Committee settles into its role, consideration would be given to how it refines its work and focus to exercise effective oversight of the embedding of the new R&D strategy.
Next steps Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present my second report of the Science The Committee will continue to review how the new approach to Committees activities the Committee.
R&D is progressing and the culture change underway in R&D, and expects to see major data readouts and news flow on several new During 2018, the Committee has sought to further evolve its ways of medicines in 2019.
Finally, I would like to thank Professor Sir Roy working and oversight of R&D to support the Board and Dr Hal Barron Anderson who stood down from the Committee, when he retired in considering our science, pipeline and R&D strategy and priorities.
from the Board in May, for his significant contribution to helping me The Committee has developed an annual programme of activities shape the role and focus of the Committee.
to support its core role of R&D oversight to help discharge its responsibilities.
Items for consideration by the Committee include receiving: Dr Jesse Goodman regular updates on the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines priority assets: Science Committee Chair regular R&D strategy updates: 11 March 2019
