62 GSK Annual Report 2018 Group financial review continued Financial position and resources continued We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when an Contingent liabilities outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising of the outflow may be made.
At 31 December 2018, other than for discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might expected to expire.
be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs m m m m m The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from the Guarantees 33 13 13 4 3 amounts provided and is dependent upon negotiations with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome of litigation proceedings, Other contingent liabilities 60 17 13 11 19 where relevant.
This is discussed further in Principal risks and Total 93 30 26 15 22 uncertainties on pages 241 to 250 and Note 45 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
In the normal course of business, we have provided various indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered The contingent consideration payable to Shionogi amounted to probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome 5,937 million at 31 December 2018 2017 5,542 million, of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial discounted at 8.5%.
The undiscounted value was 8,885 million statements, Other provisions.
Treasury policies We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash flows.
Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poors is A The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the Groups external negative outlook and with Moodys Investor Services Moodys and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of is A2 negative outlook.
Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and our strategic objectives.
GSK operates on a global basis, primarily P-1 with Standard and Poors and Moodys respectively.
through subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure Liquidity risk management that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated funding of debt and equity.
Treasury activities are governed by policies requirements.
Our cash flow forecasts and funding requirements are approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently monitored by the TMG on a regular basis.
Our strategy is to diversify on 18 October 2018.
A Treasury Management Group TMG liquidity sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a access to financial markets.
regular basis to review Treasury activities.
Its members receive Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries management information relating to these activities.
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
Treasury operations Interest rate risk management The objective of GSKs Treasury activities is to minimise the post-tax Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order to to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over benefit earnings and cash flows.
GSK uses a variety of financial time.
The policy on interest rate risk management limits the net instruments to finance its operations and derivative financial amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed instruments to manage market risks from these operations.
no less than annually by the Board.
Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets Foreign exchange risk management into currencies required for Group purposes as well as interest rate swaps which are used to manage exposure to financial risks from Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade changes in interest rates.
flows are not normally hedged.
Foreign currency transaction Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation to exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged.
underlying business activities and not as trading or speculative Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating instruments.
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income with local currency costs where possible.
GSKs internal trading Capital management transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency Our financial strategy, implemented through the Groups Financial cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of architecture, supports GSKs strategic priorities and it is regularly Treasury and the TMG.
These include hedges of the foreign reviewed by the Board.
We manage the capital structure of the exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
We continue Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing to manage our financial policies to a credit profile that particularly requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward targets short-term credit ratings of A-1 and P-1 while maintaining contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating single A long-term ratings consistent with those targets.
