94 GSK Annual Report 2018 Directors Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our Change of control and essential contracts Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually and replacement of Directors.
They provide that Directors may are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take resolution of the Board, provided that, if appointed by the effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following Board, the Director retires at the AGM following the appointment.
We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys re-election annually at the AGM in accordance with the UK share plans may cause options and awards granted under such Corporate Governance Code.
plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she: the Executive Directors service contracts are given in the full version becomes bankrupt of the companys 2017 Remuneration policy which is available at ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or the Articles www.
com in the Investors section.
suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves Directors Report that he or she shall cease to be a Director For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December months without permission and the Board resolves that he or 2018 comprises pages 65 to 94 of the Corporate Governance she shall cease to be a Director Report, the Directors statements of responsibilities on pages 126 is prohibited from being a Director by law and 127 and pages 241 to 270 of Investor Information.
The Strategic resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer report sets out those matters required to be disclosed in the is required to resign by the Board.
Directors Report which are considered to be of strategic Directors conflicts of interest importance: All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid risk management objectives and policies pages 34 to 36 a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect and 241 to 250 conflict of interest or possible conflict with the company.
Our Articles likely future developments of the company Strategic report provide a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
research and development activities pages 13 to 23 The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board diversity and inclusion page 28 to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict provision of information to, and consultation with, employees authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary page 28 and noted by the Board.
Directors are not counted in the quorum carbon emissions page 32 for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
The following information is also incorporated into the Directors Report: On an continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Location in Annual Report the Company Secretary of any such new actual or potential conflicts Interest capitalised Financial statements, that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may Notes 17 and 19 affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 37 authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conflict arises Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable require the Director to resign.
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable conflict authorisations in January 2019 and reported to the Board by a listed subsidiary that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
Except shareholder as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, Related party Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements, transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director Notes 15 and 43 or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements, contract of significance with a Group company.
Notes 15 and 43 Our Articles also prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination of his or her appointment.
The Directors Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and Independent advice the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
independent legal and or financial advice at the companys expense where they deem it necessary.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Indemnification of Directors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in the Philip Hampton Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors Chairman and former Directors who held office during 2018 and up to the signing of the Annual Report.
