18 GSK Annual Report 2018 Vaccines We are the leading vaccines company in the world, delivering over 2 million vaccine doses every day to people living in 158 countries.
Our portfolio and pipeline help protect individuals throughout their lives.
We have recently introduced breakthrough vaccines Shingrix for shingles and Bexsero, the first vaccine for meningitis B.
Progress against our long-term priorities Innovation Performance Trust Shingrix launched successfully in the Total 2018 turnover 5.9 billion, Over 120 million doses of vaccines US and Canada up 14% AER, up 16% CER delivered to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to help prevent pneumococcal disease, 23% of 2018 sales came from recent Grew ahead of the market, rotavirus and cervical cancer innovations, driven by Shingrix and strengthening our position as the Bexsero leading vaccines company by value 270 million doses of oral polio vaccine delivered to UNICEF for the Global We have 16 candidate vaccines across In addition to Shingrix, key Polio Eradication Initiative all R&D phases contributions from our influenza and hepatitis franchises, and Bexsero Positive results from candidate TB Capabilities in science and new vaccine in phase IIb trial technologies continues to be differentiator Innovation Our Vaccines business has 16 innovative candidate vaccines.
Delivering best-in-class innovation We balance our focus on this robust pipeline with the active life-cycle management of our existing vaccines, helping to protect Shingles more people through expanded indications and geographies.
In 2018, our breakthrough shingles vaccine, Shingrix, was recognised as the most successful biopharma launch in the past Our investment in breakthrough vaccines technologies creates 1 10 years in North America.
In June, Canadas National Advisory a real point of differentiation and will deliver further benefits in the Committee on Immunization NACI made a strong recommendation future.
We have more than 2,500 vaccines scientists working in three for Shingrix to be offered to people over 50, following a similar global R&D centres, in Belgium, Italy and the US.
This international opinion in the US in 2017.
In March, Shingrix received licensing spread equips us with a diversity of skills and culture, helps to attract approval in the EU and Japan, and in May we launched it in Germany.
the best talent, and opens doors to external partnerships.
In 2018, In December, the Standing Committee on Vaccination in Germany, the proportion of our sales from innovations introduced in the past STIKO, recommended Shingrix for all people over 60 and for those five years was 23%.
over 50 with an immune-compromising condition or severe We are expanding our capabilities to become a stronger player in underlying disease.
The vaccine was approved in Australia in the worlds largest vaccines markets, the US and China.
In line with our phased launch strategy, we have the this goal, we are simplifying complexity across the business, reducing detailed capacity plans in place that are necessary to deliver R&D timelines and developing a more dynamic culture.
In September, the meaningful increase in doses needed to meet long-term Roger Connor became the new President, Global Vaccines.
Shingrix marks a step change in the prevention of shingles, a painful and potentially serious condition that affects more than one in three people during their lifetimes.
It was designed specifically to address the challenge of age-related decline in immunity and is the first approved shingles vaccine to combine a non-live antigen, to trigger a targeted immune response, with a specifically designed adjuvant to generate a strong and sustained immune response.
Clinical trials have proven Shingrix efficacy of more than 90% for all age groups studied.
1 Source independent assessment from IQVIA.
19 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Meningitis The phase I and II studies demonstrated that our candidate vaccine was safe and capable of inducing an immune response.
We began We are the market leader in vaccines against meningococcal a phase IIb proof of concept study in Europe and North America meningitis, with our complementary portfolio of Menveo, against in 2017, with efficacy results expected in mid-2020.
serogroups A, C, W, and Y, and Bexsero, targeting serogroup B.
In influenza, we are working on a universal supra-seasonal vaccine In 2018, we continued to consolidate our leadership by broadening with researchers at Mount Sinai in the US.
We also expanded the the age range that our vaccines cover.
In the US, where Bexsero is indications for our existing flu vaccines, with European approval for licensed for 10-to-25-year-olds, the vaccine received Breakthrough a paediatric indication for Fluarix Tetra.
Therapy Designation from the FDA for children between twoand 10 years old.
In June, the European Medicines Agency approved a new, alternative 2 1 dosing schedule for Bexsero in infants New technologies in addition to the existing 3 1 schedule, offering healthcare Our success in innovation reflects our unique combination of professionals more options to help protect infants from invasive advanced technologies, scientific experts across three global meningococcal disease IMD caused by serogroup B and the R&D centres, and external collaborations.
Our broad range of potential for fewer visits to the doctor for families.
technologies includes adjuvant systems, self-amplifying messenger We continued to support external research into meningitis B, RNA SAM, bioconjugates, generalised modules for membrane including funding the largest-ever study into the adolescent carriage antigens GMMA and the chimpanzee adenovirus ChAd platform.
The study, led by the University of Such capabilities have the potential to significantly reduce the cost Adelaide, saw more than 34,000 teenagers being vaccinated with and time of vaccine development and help make radical advances Bexsero.
The early findings, which are a significant step forward that address unmet medical needs.
in scientific understanding, show there was a fall in the number of meningitis B cases in South Australian adolescents, but no External partnerships statistically significant reduction in nasopharyngeal carriage of the bacteria that causes the disease.
As such, these preliminary results Partnerships remain central to our innovation.
We have around underscore the need for direct vaccination of vulnerable individuals, 150 external scientific collaborations, with most of our 16 candidate particularly infants and adolescents, as the best way to protect vaccines being developed in partnership.
Our partnerships and against meningococcal B disease.
technologies also support our work on tuberculosis and shigella We advanced our work on new formulations for meningitis vaccines, for instance, which is part of our ongoing commitment to developing with our fully liquid Menveo candidate vaccine entering phase II vaccines against the diseases of the developing world.
The phase III results for the US Menveo booster found collaborations enable our Vaccines scientists to learn from other that it can effectively and safely extend protection four to six years leading experts and stay close to emerging technologies and after a primary course of MenACWY vaccine.
We also remain new science.
committed to the challenging goal of developing a single vaccine to cover the five most common meningitis serogroups of A, B, C, W and Y.
Other priority assets We are pursuing a full portfolio of vaccines against respiratory syncytial virus RSV, tailored to the different age groups most Vaccines pipeline at risk of infection from the virus.
There is currently no prophylactic Phase Indication vaccine vaccine approved for the prevention of respiratory disease caused by RSV, in spite of the significant medical need.
Our maternal Phase III Shingrix for immunocompromised vaccine is designed to increase antibodies in the mother that will Bexsero infants in the US transfer to the baby and help protect them in the first months of life, Rotarix PCV-free when the disease is most severe.
Our candidate paediatric vaccine, MMR in US given directly to babies, is designed to induce protection from the Phase II COPD disease throughout childhood and, potentially, for recipients entire lives.
In late 2018, we began a phase I II trial for children, and Hepatitis C commenced a phase I study on the maternal vaccine.
The US Malaria next gen FDA has given fast track designation to our RSV candidate MenABCWY vaccines for pregnant women and older adults, which have just Menveo liquid entered clinical development.
Shigella By 2030, COPD is predicted to become the worlds third-leading Tuberculosis cause of death.
Our COPD candidate vaccine marks a move away RSV paediatric from the traditional concept of a vaccine given to healthy people to prevent a specific disease towards the development of a HIV disease-modifying vaccine that could reduce the frequency Phase I II RSV older adults of COPD exacerbations and slow down the diseases progress.
Flu universal It combines two antigens from bacteria commonly found in acute RSV maternal COPD exacerbations with our proprietary adjuvant system, ASO1.
20 GSK Annual Report 2018 Vaccines continued Performance 2018 performance summary Focusing on growth markets Vaccines turnover grew 14% AER, 16% CER to 5,894 million, In 2018, we strengthened our position as the worlds leading primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix, hepatitis vaccines, vaccines company by value.
Sales grew ahead of the market, which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage, and higher increasing our market share and profitability.
Having established our leadership in Europe and emerging markets, The operating margin of 33.0% was 1.1 percentage points higher at we are now focusing on increasing our presence in the worlds AER than in 2017 and 2.5 percentage points higher on a CER basis.
largest vaccines markets US and China to protect more people This was primarily driven by enhanced operating leverage from strong and improve business performance.
The US is our number one sales growth, an improved product mix, including the impact of the priority market and our performance in the US in 2018 has been launch of Shingrix, together with further restructuring and integration particularly strong.
We welcome the Chinese governments recent benefits.
This was partly offset by the comparison with the benefit steps to fast-track the approval of clinically urgently needed new of a settlement for lost third-party supply volume recorded in 2017, medicines and vaccines, reflecting its commitment to enabling increased supply chain costs and increased SG&A investments faster entry of new prevention and treatment options.
We look to support new launches and business growth.
forward to responding to that need with our innovative vaccines in the years ahead.
Shingrix recorded sales of 784 million, primarily in the US and Canada, driven by demand and share gains.
US sales benefited Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain from market growth in new patient populations now covered by immunisation recommendations and Shingrix has now achieved We have 13 manufacturing sites, across 10 countries.
In the first half of 2018 alone, Shingrix international presence enables us to produce our vaccines with performed twice as strongly as the competitor vaccine had flexibility, as demonstrated during the year, when we leveraged our during the whole of 2017. secondary manufacturing network to increase capacity for Shingrix.
Meningitis sales were down 1% AER but up 2% CER to We have delivered more than 9 million doses globally since launch 881 million.
Bexsero sales grew 5% AER, 9% CER, driven by and we are working hard to build capacity and meet long-term demand and share gains in the US, together with continued growth global demand.
We continue to target high-teens millions of doses in private market sales in International, partly offset by the completion over the next two or three years.
To do this, we are undertaking of vaccination of catch-up cohorts in certain markets in Europe.
multiple initiatives to boost production across our global Menveo sales declined 15% AER, 12% CER, primarily reflecting manufacturing network in the US and Europe, and at every stage supply constraints in Europe and International as well as a strong of the manufacturing process from primary antigen production to comparator in 2017 and unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile packaging.
These initiatives will ensure sustainable, steady supply movements in the US, partly offset by demand and share gains growth for the vaccine over the coming years.
During the year, we continued to simplify our supply chain, and Fluarix FluLaval sales grew 7% AER, 10% CER to 523 million, discontinued several vaccines that duplicate existing products.
driven by strong sales execution in the US and improved sales Our ongoing investment in our manufacturing network enabled in Europe, partly offset by increased price competition in the US.
a 10% growth in our filling volume and we maintained our strong Established Vaccines sales were down 1% AER and flat CER focus on the safety and high quality of all our vaccines.
reflecting lower sales of DTPa-containing vaccines Infanrix, Pediarix and Boostrix due to increased competitive pressures, particularly in Europe, and unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements in the US, together with lower Synflorix sales, reflecting lower pricing and demand in emerging markets.
Hepatitis vaccines sales grew 17% AER, 19% CER to 808 million, benefiting from stronger demand in the US and Europe, as well as a competitor supply shortage in the US.
