Business model As a global producer and marketer of commodities, weare uniquely diversified by geography, products and activities.
Integrating our marketing and industrial business sets us apart from our competitors and helps us generate value Inputs and resources onwhich our business Metals and minerals model depends 3 business segments, Assets and natural resources spanning the metals, Our resources and reserves are overall long-life and of a high energy and agricultural Energy quality, enhancing the scale and markets, producing value of our marketing business 90commodities We are a disciplined producer, from150sites seeking to align supply with demand andvalue over volume Agriculture Our people and partners We have established long-term relationships with a broad rangeof suppliers and Exploration, acquisition and development customersacross diverse Our focus on brownfield sites and exploration close to existing industries and geographies assetslowers our risk profile and lets us use existing infrastructure, c. 158,000 employees and realise synergies and control costs.
contractors spread across 90sites offices and six continents Extraction and production Financial discipline We mine and beneficiate minerals across a range of commodities, We deploy capital in a disciplined mining techniques and countries, for processing or refining at manner, seeking to create value ourown facilities, or forsale.
for all ourstakeholders Our hedging strategies protect usagainst price risks and ensure Processing and refining that our marketing profitability Our expertise and technological advancement in processing isprimarily determined by andrefining mean we can optimise our end products to suit volume-driven activities and awidercustomer base and provide security of supply as value-added services rather wellasvaluable market knowledge.
thanabsolute price Unique market knowledge As an integrated commodity producer and marketer, weareuniquely positioned togenerate value at every stageof the commodity chain Safety Environment Our business activities The safety of our people is our top We aim to minimise any negative are driven to achieve priority.
We aim to eliminate fatalities environmental impact from our activities andprovidea safe workplace.
and promote efficient use of resources, ourstrategic imperatives such as energy and water.
and our commitment Health We want to protect and improve todeveloping a thehealth of our workforce and sustainable business localcommunities.
12 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our marketing business Page 15 Our commodities in everyday products Logistics and delivery Our logistics assets allow us to handle large volumes ofcommodities, both to fulfil our obligations and to takeadvantageof demand and supply imbalances.
Thesevalueadded services make us a preferred  such capabilities.
Safety 3% increase in total recordable injuryfrequency rate Geographic arbitrage Payments to Governments $ 5.7bn Product Our marketing business Minimising our impact arbitrage We move commodities on the environment from where they are plentiful to where they are needed.
-9% reduction in carbon emissions scope 1 and Time scope 2 location based arbitrage Adjusted EBITDA $ 15.8bn 2018 announced distributions buybacks Blending and optimisation Our ability to blend and optimise allows us to offer a wide rangeof $ 5.2bn product specifications, resulting in a superior service and an ability to meet our customer specific requirements.
Anti-bribery and corruption Offering, paying, soliciting or accepting bribes is unacceptable.
We work to identifyand reduce the risks of bribery Sustainability Our strategy for a andcorruption across all our business.
framework sustainable future Community and human rights Page 37 Page 16 We foster sustainable growth and respect human rights wherever we operate.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 13 Business model continued Strength through combination Metals and Energy Agriculture minerals Our scale and presence both as a producer 1 4.5mt andmarketer of commodities is unrivalled.
Copper metal and We are present at every point of the concentrates marketed valuechain, from where commodities are 1 sourcedtowhere they are consumed: 3.2mt Global scale Zinc metal and concentrates marketed Long-term relationships Unique insights 1.7bn bbl Differentiated opportunities Crude oil and oil productsmarketed Glencore 1,200 Vessels on the ocean atany one time Extraction Processing Blending Logistics Exploration 7,000 production refining optimisation marketing Long-term relationships with suppliers and customers 1 Estimated metal unit contained.
Traditional miner Marketer Strategy and risk A supportive strategy How we manage risk Our Marketing Business supports We mitigate credit risks through Principal risks the creation of incremental value application of measures including anduncertainties from a pool of allocated capital credit insurance, letters of credit, Page 24 through critical mass, blending, security arrangements and bank storage and arbitrage opportunities.
Our presence at every stage of the We manage market exposure value chain allows us to leverage byreducing price risks arising from ourscale and diversity.
timing differences to acceptably lowlevels.
Our policies procedures seek to ensure we comply with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations.
14 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our marketing business We move commodities from where they are plentiful to where they are needed Market insight and Arbitrage Product  opportunities arbitrage Our global scale and presence in Many of the physical commodity Disparity more than 90commodities across markets in which we operate are Pricing differences between 50countries gives us extensive fragmented or periodically volatile.
blends, grades or types market knowledge and insight This can result in arbitrage: price ofcommodity, taking into tohelp us fully understand the discrepancies between the prices accountprocessing and needs of our customers.
for the same commodities in substitution costs.
Anticipating supply anddemand different geographic locations Execution Our integrated marketing ortime periods.
Ensure optionality with andindustrial businesses work Other factors with arbitrage commodity supply contracts, side-by-side to give us presence opportunities include freight andlook to lock-in profitable across theentire supply chain, andproduct quality.
pricedifferentials through delivering in-depth knowledge blending, processing or ofphysical market supply end-product substitution.
anddemand dynamics and anabilityto rapidly adjust to Geographic marketconditions.
arbitrage Time Creating opportunities Disparity The significant scale of both our arbitrage Different prices for the same own production and the volumes product in different geographic Disparity secured from third parties allows regions, taking into account Different prices for a commodity us to create margin opportunities transportation and transaction depending on whether delivery from our ability to supply the costs.
isimmediate or at a future date, exactcommodities the market taking into account storage needs through processing and or Execution andfinancing costs.
blending and optimisation Leverage global relationships ofqualities.
andproduction, processing and Execution logistical capabilities to source Book carry trades that benefit Generating revenue product in one location and from competitive sources of We generate revenues as a deliver in another.. storage, insurance and financing.
fee-like income from physical asset handling and arbitrage, as well as blending and optimisation opportunities.
Our use ofhedging instruments results in profitability beinglargely determined by theseactivities rather than by absolute price movements.
