Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2018 Financial instruments Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and financial risk management objectives and policies, including hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included innotes 26 and 27 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance and compliance withthe UK Corporate Governance Code is set out intheCorporate Governance report and forms part ofthisreport by reference.
Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC An overview of health, safety and environmental Company Secretary performance and community participation is provided John Burton inthe Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
The work of the HSEC Board committee is contained in the Corporate Governance report.
Introduction This Annual Report is presented by the Directors Taxation policy onthe affairs of Glencore plc the Company Our Tax Policy: glencore.
com group-tax-policy andits subsidiaries the Group or Glencore, andoursecond Payments to Governments report: together with the financial statements and glencore.
com  auditors report, for the year ended 31 December setout the Companys approach to tax and transparency 2018.
The Directors report includes details of the and disclose the payments made by the Group on a business, the development of the Group and likely country-by-country and project-by-project basis.
future developments as set out in the Strategic Report, which together form the management Exploration and research and development report for the purposes of the UK Financial The Groups business units carry out exploration and ConductAuthoritys Disclosure and Transparency research and development activities that are necessary Rule DTR 4.1.
The notice concerning forwardto support and expand their operations.
looking statements is set out at the end of the Annual Report.
Employee policies and involvement Glencore operates on diversity and recruitment policiesthat aim to treat individuals fairly and not to Corporate structure discriminate onthe basis of gender, race, ethnicity, Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, disability, religionor beliefs, or on any other basis.
incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Applications foremployment and promotion are fully Switzerland.
Its shares are listed on the London and considered ontheir merits, and employees are given Johannesburg Stock Exchanges.
On 31 January 2018 appropriate training and equal opportunities for theCompany delisted its shares from the Hong Kong careerdevelopment and promotion.
If disability occurs during employment, the Group seeksto accommodate that disability where reasonably Financial results and distributions possible, including with appropriate training.
The Groups financial results are set out in the financialstatements section of this Annual Report.
The Groups Code of Conduct and other policies support and protect the interests of employees in a number A total distribution of US$0.20 per share was paid ofways such as requiring open, fair and respectful intwoinstalments in 2018. communication, zero tolerance for human rights The Board is recommending to shareholders an violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe aggregate distribution of US$0.20 per share in respect working environment.
ofthe 2018 financial year as further detailed on page 58.
Employee communication is mainly provided by theGroups intranet, corporate website and via emails.
Review of business, future developments Arange of information is made available to employees and post balance sheet events including all policies and procedures applicable to A review of the business and the future developments themas well as information on the Groups financial ofthe Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
performance and the main drivers of its business.
A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material Employee consultation depends upon the type and changes to Group companies undertaken during the location of operation or office.
Further information year is included in the Financial review and in note 25 onourpeople is set out on pages 4748. tothe financial statements.
118 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors conflicts of interest Share capital and shareholder rights Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles As at 31 January 2019, the issued ordinary share ofAssociation which mirror section 175 of the UK capitalofthe Company was $145,862,001 represented Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation by14,586,200,066 ordinary shares of$0.01 each, of which inwhich the Director has, or can have, a direct or 632,503,005 shares are held in treasury and 140,406,542 indirectinterest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, shares areheld by Group employee benefit trusts.
with theinterests of the Company.
The duty is not infringed ifthe matter has been authorised by the Major interests in shares Directors.
Under the Articles, the Board has the power Taking into account the information available to toauthorise potential or actual conflict situations.
Glencoreas at 31 January 2019, the table below shows TheBoard maintains effective procedures to enable theCompanys understanding of the interests in 3% theDirectors to notify the Company of any actual or ormore of the total voting rights attaching to its potential conflict situations and for those situations issuedordinary share capital: tobereviewed and, if appropriate, to be authorised by Percentage of Number Total Voting the Board.
Directors conflict situations are reviewed Name of holder of shares Rights annually.
A register of authorisations is maintained.
Qatar Holding 1,221,497,099 8.75 Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.69 Directors liabilities and indemnities BlackRock Inc 820,422,580 5.88 The Company has granted third party indemnities toeach of its Directors against any liability that Daniel Mat 454,136,143 3.25 attachesto them in defending proceedings brought Aristotelis Mistakidis 450,175,134 3.23 against them, to the extent permitted by Jersey law.
Harris Associates 429,121,654 3.08 Inaddition, Directors and Officers of the Company anditssubsidiaries are covered by directors & officers Share capital liability insurance.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the only share class of the Company, are set out Directors and Officers inthe Companys Articles of Association the Articles, The names of the Companys Directors and Officers which can be found at glencore.
com who-we-are whowere in office at the end of 2018, together with governance.
Subject to Jersey law, any share may theirbiographical details and other information, beissued with or have attached to it such preferred, areshown on pages 9495. deferred or other special rights and restrictions as the Company may by special resolution decide or, ifnosuch Directors interests resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the notmake specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Companyof those Directors who held office during 2018are given below: No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the Number of Percentage recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares Glencore of Total Voting may receive a distribution.
On liquidation, holders of Name Shares Rights ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Executive Directors Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.69 theCompanys Annual Report and Accounts or a Non-Executive Directors summarised version and, subject to certain thresholds Anthony Hayward 244,907 0.00 being met, may requisition the Board to convene a Peter Coates 1,585,150 0.01 general meeting GM or submit resolutions for proposal Leonhard Fischer at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special Martin Gilbert 50,000 0.00 rights with regard to control of the Company.
1 Peter Grauer 129,792 0.00 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and John Mack 750,000 0.00 speak at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or Gill Marcus more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, acorporate representative.
On a show of hands, each Patrice Merrin 43,997 0.00 holder of ordinary shares who being an individual 1 Retired from the Board on 3 March 2018.
Figures provided at date of retirement.
ispresent in person or being a corporation is present byaduly appointed corporate representative, not being No Director has any other interest in the share capital himself a member, shall have one vote.
On a poll, every ofthe Company whether pursuant to any share plan holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy orotherwise.
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the No changes in Directors interests of those in office holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and atthedate of this report have occurred between voting instructions must be received not later than 31December 2018 and 28 February 2019.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed Glencore Annual Report 2018 119 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued to provide the Company with information concerning The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above andprovide that the Board may exercise all the and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are powersofthe Company including to borrow money.
nolimitations on voting rights of holders of a given TheCompany may by ordinary resolution authorise percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising theBoard to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, voting rights.
sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with itsArticles and Jersey law.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that Purchase of own shares the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the In July 2018, the Company started a $1 billion buy-back Company from taking place on an open and proper programme, which was extended by a further $1 billion basisor where the Company has a lien over that share.
Under the programme, the The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of Companypurchased 422,113,105of its own ordinary acertificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: shares in 2018, and an additional 83,900,992shares between 1January2019 and 26 February 2019. i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered Theauthority to purchase own shares was approved office of the Company or any other place as the Board bythe shareholders on 2 May 2018.
The Directors may decide accompanied by the certificate for the willseek a similar authority atthe Companys AGM share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as tobeheldin 2019. the Directors may reasonably require as proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
Going concern The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a inthe Strategic Report.
Furthermore, notes 26 and 27 transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with tothe financial statements include the Groups theregulations governing the operation of CREST.
objectives and policies for managing its capital, its The Directors may decide to suspend the registration financial risk management objectives, details of its oftransfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the financial instruments and hedging activities and register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend itsexposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares financingactivities that took place during the without obtaining consent from CREST.
yeararedetailed in the Financial review section, whichstarts on page 52.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinaryshares in the Company except: 1 certain The results of the Group, principally pertaining to its restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws industrial asset base, are exposed to fluctuations in and regulations for example insider trading laws : 2 bothcommodity prices and currency exchange rates pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby whereas the performance of marketing activities is the Directors and certain employees of the Company primarily physical volume driven with commodity require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 3 pricerisk substantially hedged.
where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the The Directors have a reasonable expectation, Companys issued share capital has been served with a havingmade appropriate enquiries, that the Group disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company hasadequate resources to continue its operational with information concerning interests in those shares.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason There are no agreements between holders of ordinary theycontinue to adoptthe going concern basis shares that are known to the Company, which may inpreparing the financial statements.
The Directors resultin restrictions on the transfer of securities or havemade this assessment after consideration of the onvoting rights.
Groupsbudgeted cash flows and related assumptions The rules for appointment and replacement of the including appropriate stress testing of the identified Directors are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be uncertainties being primarily commodity prices and appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a currency exchange rates and undrawn credit facilities, GM or by the Board upon the recommendation of the monitoring of debt maturities, and after review of Nomination Committee.
The Company can remove a theGuidance on Risk Management, Internal Control Director from office, including by passing an ordinary andRelated Financial and Business Reporting 2014 resolution or by notice being given by all the other aspublished by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
120 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Longer-term viability representation of the effects of transactions, other In accordance with paragraph C2.2 of the Code, the eventsand conditions in accordance with the definitions Directors have assessed the prospects of the Groups and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income viability over a longer period than the 12 months required andexpenses set out in the International Accounting by the going concern assessment above.
A summary Standards Boards Framework for the preparation ofthe assessment made is set out on page 26 in the andpresentation of financial statements.
Principal risks and uncertainties section.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will Based on the results of the related analysis, the Directors beachieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be However, the Directors are also required to: able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period of this assessment.
Properly select and apply accounting policies They also believe that the review period of four years Present information, including accounting policies, isappropriate having regard to the Groups business inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties, comparable and understandable information andviability.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance Auditor withthe specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient Each of the persons who is a Director at the date to enable users to understand the impact of particular ofapproval of this Annual Report confirms that: transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance a. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor Make an assessment of the Companys ability to isunaware: and continue as a going concern b. the Director has taken all the steps that he ought The Directors are responsible for keeping proper tohave taken as a director in order to make himself accounting records that disclose with reasonable aware of any relevant audit information and to accuracy at any time the financial position of the establish that the Companys auditor is aware of Company and enable them to ensure that the financial thatinformation.
statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are responsible for themaintenance and integrity of the corporate and Statement of Directors responsibilities financial information included on the Companys The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual website.
The legislation governing the preparation and Report and financial statements in accordance with dissemination of the Companys financial statements applicable law and regulations.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Signed on behalf of the Board statements for the Company for each financial year.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union together IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law to be John Burton properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Company Secretary Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 28 February 2019 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful Glencore Annual Report 2018 121 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 8 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required LR 9.2.
18 See Chief Executive Officers review 9.8.
4 5 Director waivers of emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 6 Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 18 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 18 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder LR 9.2.
2A Not applicable There are no disclosures to be made in respect of the other numbered parts of LR 9.8.
Confirmation of Directors responsibilities We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and income of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole the management report, which is incorporated in the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, position, strategy and business model of the Company The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were approved on the date below by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board: Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg Chairman Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2019 122 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc 124 Consolidated statement of income 135 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 136 Consolidated statement of financial position 137 Consolidated statement of cash flows 138 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 140 Notes to the financial statements 141 Glencore Annual Report 2018 123
