STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR MARKETS Well positioned in dynamic markets Regional bus London bus UK Rail UK transport Overview Overview Overview Transport in the United Kingdom is facilitated with road, air, rail This market comprises of all our UK bus operations outside Transport for London TfL tenders individual bus contracts UK train operators run rail services through contracts and water networks.
Our operations of passenger transport is London.
While most services are operated on a commercial which run for five to seven years.
Operators are responsible tendered by the DfT.
The track and other infrastructure is spread across three divisions: regional bus, London bus and rail.
basis, some contract services are operated on behalf of local for their own vehicles and depots and are paid through largely owned and managed by Network Rail.
The extent to authorities and educational institutions.
Operators are gross cost contracts on a revenue per mile basis.
TfL sets which an operator is able to vary fares, routes and service Passenger transport has grown in recent years with the latest responsible for their own vehicles and depots, as well as routes and service frequency, while the Mayor of London is frequencies depends on the contract.
Trains are usually figures from the DfT showing that total passenger travel inside setting routes, fares and service frequency.
Full revenue risk responsible for setting fares.
owned by leasing companies and rented to operators.
theUnited Kingdom was 801 billion kilometres in 2017, the highest is taken by the operator.
With people travelling over 6,500 miles per year on average, transport is a fundamental part of daily living and, Regional bus market share London bus market share Rail market share therefore, plays an important role in our economy.
22% Govia 26% Stagecoach 23% Go-Ahead Go-Ahead 65% Keolis 35% How the UK travelled in 2017 : 21% FirstGroup 19% Comfort DelGro 20% FirstGroup 15% Arriva 18% Arriva Modal share Trips Distance 23% 22% 11% 14% Arriva 11% Go-Ahead 14% Stagecoach 11% Abellio 7% National Express 12% RATP 10% Stagecoach 20% Others 14% Others 23% Others Trends Trends Trends 61% 78% Passenger journeys outside London have either remained Congestion in London remains challenging, both in terms In recent years, the competitive UK rail industry has seen static or have slightly declined.
With over 31% of British ofservice reliability and its impact on the environment, well publicised challenges faced by operators.
This has workers now working from home at least one day per week, leading to a corresponding decrease in bus passenger led to recent changes taken by the DfT which motivate all increased car usage, as well as other changing customers numbers.
Recent budgetary constraints on TfL has bidders to rigorously identify and address operational and 26% 3% habits such as online shopping, and competition from the resultedin reducedservice frequency, mileage and vehicle financial risks during the tendering process.
With ongoing growth in ride hailing car services all contributing to this requirement, despitecontinued population growth in the significant infrastructure improvements and modernisation decline in bus passenger numbers.
These factors have led to capital, and has intensified the level of competition amongst of the railway, governmental initiatives have been introduced a rise in congestion as well raising pressure on the issue of operators.
This was followed by the Mayors Transport which encourage closer working with Network Rail, improving air quality.
Strategy 2018, setting out the policies and proposals to greater involvement of local stakeholders and more 6% 5% reshape transport.
convenient and flexible ticketing products that better fit with passenger needs.
Our approach Our approach Our approach 2% 8% We have been promoting bus travel as the way forward Buses are the most popular means of public transport In the UK, we are prioritising service improvement at GTR byworking with local companies, councils and developers inLondon and are the best solution to serve the growing and have submitted a sensible and deliverable bid for the tomake bus central to their thinking and alleviate the population.
We continue to focus on operational delivery, next South Eastern franchise.
We have contributed our impact on air quality.
We have also conducted a pilot with negating the impact of congestion and declining passenger views to the DfT on how rail franchising could be improved 2% 1% logistic partners to help manage deliveries in local area numbers, by running our operations to ensure the delivery and are proactively working with all major industry andhelp reduce congestion.
To attract customers, we of punctual services.
This has led to a recent increase in stakeholders.
We consider that contracting rail services continue to invest in our bus networks with comfortable ourQIC bonuses from TfL for targets achieved.
Our network provides best value for customers and taxpayers and Other highspecification vehicles, advanced retail systems and ofdepots are strategically located, enabling us to bid cost continue to focus on urban and inter-urban franchises cutting-edge information systems making travelling with effectively in the competitive market for TfL contracts.
where our expertise lies and where we can add value.
3% 5% useasy and helped maintain our high customer satisfaction Weformally responded to the Mayors Transport Strategy, Weare also using our rail expertise to selectively bid for score.
We recently launched demand responsive transport highlighting what works well, while calling for greater railcontracts in attractive international markets.
To date, Source: DfT services in Oxford and have rolled out simpler under 18 buspriority and sustained network funding.
We have held wehave won four rail contracts in Germany and are actively We have expertise and skills from our UK bus and rail operations fares to attract younger passengers, as well as kids for a discussions with representatives from the government pursuing other opportunities.
and have leveraged this expertise in new international markets, quid and continue to look for growth opportunities through andTfL to generate thought leadership on air quality offering considerable value to passengers and tendering bolt-on acquisitions, focusing predominantly on urban areas andcontinue to roll out low emission and electric buses authorities, which has been proven successful through our with growth potential.
We remain the largest Singapore bus contract in the last year.
operator of electric buses in the UK.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
