Regional bus Acquisitions STRATEGY IN ACTION Throughout the year we invested 41.1m on new buses We continue to look for opportunities to grow our business and a further 6.8m making improvements to our bus organically and through bolt-on acquisitions.
This included new technology, improving During the year we acquired two regional bus businesses, passenger information and multi payment options, to a sightseeing company in Oxford and East Yorkshire Motor make our services easier and more convenient to use.
Services, headquartered in Hull, which will deliver cost Protect and We have also improved accessibility across all our synergies and drive revenue in the long term through the services by rolling out the Helping Hand card.
The expertise of our local teams.
introduction of lean thinking also enabled us to be more efficient with Go North East furthest advanced grow the core inimplementing this in its engineering activities.
Rail Were focused on protecting and growing our This year, we have remained focused on developing and core business.
In bus weve got a resilient improving our customer offering, with the introduction of 70% new trains, additional capacity and real time information.
business model equipped for economic We introduced a new smartcard, KeyGo, and DelayRepay15 buses with contactless uncertainty and in rail were bidding with passenger compensation scheme.
technology financial discipline, considering each potential We also accelerated our business efficiency programme at Southeastern to improve financial performance whilst franchise bid on its own specific merits.
534 million annual rail passenger journeys UK bus operator of the year Our continual efforts to be the UKs leading transport provider have not gone unrecognised.
Go-Ahead bus company Go South Coast was awarded the UK Bus Operator of the Year at the UK Bus Awards 2017 with Brighton & Hove Buses, another of Go-Aheads businesses, taking second place.
London bus In March, Go-Ahead London was named Bus Operator of the Year at the London Transport Awards.
Working in partnership with TfL and strengthening ourservice control capabilities, we have continued to improve our operational procedures and performance for our customers, resulting in higher QIC bonuses for service quality.
We run the UKs only all electric bus depot and will shortly be trialling the first tri-axle double decker bus in London, providing capacity for 130 passengers.
Sustainable business Not only do we strive to be a good transport operator, we 12.5% also aim to be a responsible business, by supporting the UK economy, embracing local and national environmental punctuality initiatives, being a fair employer and being open and improvement transparent about our business activities and finances.
Our credentials include: Future growth STRATEGY IN ACTION We have a clear international strategy and arobust framework through which this strategy will be delivered.
We have three decades of experience operating complex transport networks in the UK.
Were in anexcellent position to leverage that Win new expertise in new international markets, offering considerable value to passengers and tendering authorities.
We are focused onmarkets with stable political and legal busand rail systems, where theres appetite for public transport use, and the tendering authorities are committed to introducing international contracts expertise.
Our target markets have visiblepipelines of contracts and present opportunities to develop in other areas International development We continue to pursue value adding oncea local platform has been established.
In September 2016, we began operatingabus contract opportunities in current and new international in the Loyangdistrict of Singapore and we now run We have a target of developing international Go-Ahead international strategy over 400buses on 27 routes.
operations to deliver 15%-20% of Group markets, where there is a strong pipeline of operating profit by 2022.
Why Opportunities in the UK are well defined in a mature market.
bid opportunities in both bus and rail.
We are In August 2017, the Group was awarded its first Irish We have expertise and skills from our UK bus and rail operations bus contract in the outer Dublin metropolitan area and currently exploring opportunities in a number that other countries recognise and want to benefit from won our second bus contract in March 2018, taking the of markets in line with our strategy, risk total number of routes operated by Go-Ahead in Dublin to 30.
How appetite and financial discipline.
Our strategy is to proactively target new bus and rail contracts and develop for the future of transport Go-Ahead is currently preparing forthe start of three German rail contracts in 2019, in Baden-Wrttemberg and Bavaria.
In June 2018, the Group was awarded a fourth German rail contract, E-Netz Allgu, which will What Plays to our strengths: Good return Visible pipeline commence in 2021.
Land transport on capital of work Urban environment High quality operations Preferred Low capital Strong employee market entry requirements seven recruitment and via contract engagement international contracts with regulatory Focus on customer won to date authority experience Devolved local management Where Transport authority Stable political Consistent with which wants & legal systems our values international expertise Current pipeline Today Tomorrow Singapore Germany | Ireland Ireland Australia | Nordics Germany Singapore Our target is 15-20% Group operating profit by 2022 Success Operational excellence inSingapore South Eastern Our operational excellence is also being We are shortlisted for the next South Eastern recognised in our new markets.
In 2017, franchise to be awarded by the Department for theTransport Gold Award was awarded Transport DfT, which is expected to commence toeight of the Go-Ahead Singapore bus on1April 2019.
Our rail bid team has submitted a drivers, for displaying exemplary service strong bid for the franchise that will deliver value and gracious behaviour to customers, for passengers, taxpayers and shareholders alike.
further displaying our vision of a world where every journey is taken care of.
Mobileeee The Billion Journey Project STRATEGY IN ACTION Earlier this year, Go-Ahead acquired a 12% stake In July this year, Go-Ahead launched the Billion Journey Project, inMobileeee, a Frankfurt based award winning car a new accelerator lab programme.
The largest of its kind in the sharing company.
UK, the programme was developed with the ambition of helping start-ups and scale-ups implement their product across the rail The company offers electric car sharing, carpool and bus industry.
The programme, which will initially nurture management, fleet solutions and fleet management, 10companies, offers technical assistance and mentorship from Develop for bringing together modern, affordable and sustainable ourteam of transport experts and will support new businesses solutions that allow users to participate in a new world lookingto change and shape the future of transport by focusing of mobility.
Now in its seventh month, the future of Mobileeee has over Hammock transport 140 At the end of 2017, Hammock, a new Go-Ahead cars in operation company, was established to deliver consultancy, Passenger and customer needs are changing retail and digital solutions for public transport.
Itseeks to leverage Go-Aheads strong expertise and so are we.
To remain relevant to our indelivering innovative retailing and digital customers and to stay in tune with the solutions across public transport, making travel easier for customers and local authorities.
To date, changing expectations in the transport sector, we have won two contracts with a local authority, we are seeking new ways to use our skills, commercialising our expertise in smart ticketing and payment solutions.
knowledge and assets to create growth and set us apart from the competition.
Go-Ahead Group awarded the Smart Cities UK Transport Award for 2018 Go-Ahead teamed up with technology experts at iBlocks to Oxford PickMeUp pioneeracutting edge system offering customers anew form This year, Go-Ahead launched the UKs most ambitious ofcontactless ticketing, called Hopsta.
The app allows passengers demand responsive bus service, allowing passengers topay for their bus travel solely using mobile signals on their to summon a bus pick-up within minutes at a virtual smartphone via iBeacons, when they board our buses.
bus stop at their convenience using a new mobile app.
Following a successful trial by students on our Unilink buses, The PickMeUp service, which is being piloted by the operated by Go South Coast, a new and more sophisticated system Oxford Bus Company, aims to meet the changing iscurrently being piloted in the NorthEast.
needsof people in the city and to reduce congestion.
It marks the latest technological innovative success from Go-Ahead.
Now in its second month of operation, PickMeUp has over 2,000 weekly riders Continued innovation Our project team is currently exploring a range ofsolutions to make public transport a clear andsimple choice for end-to-end journeys.
One such solution is Mobility as a Service Maas, theintegration of various forms of transport services into a single mobility service which isaccessible on demand.
This is enabled by combining transportation services from public andprivate transportation providers through a unified gateway that creates and manages the trip, which users can pay for with a single account.
With the continued growth of global eCommerce and increasing demand for product personalisation, there is an opportunity to leverage our assets through innovation.
We have been exploring if Go-Ahead facilities such as spare capacity in depots, on buses and supporting services can be made to work for logistics partners and conducted a pilot atour Crawley depot during the year.
