STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED GROUP Q&A Greenhouse gas emissions We report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, andthe UK governments Environmental Reporting Guidance methodologies together with the emissions conversion factors from the Answering the topical strategic questions Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy BEIS conversion factors for Company Reporting 2018.
In line with this guidance, we have reported the emissions sources which are required.
These sources fall within the businesses included in our consolidated financial statements.
Go-Aheads Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer answer the Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide CO e. Our relative performance metric has always been kilogrammes topical questions that we get asked by our stakeholders on strategic matters.
2 ofCO e emissions per passenger journey but due to increasing difficulty in obtaining passenger journey data for several of our operating 2 companies, we are moving to a new relative performance metric of kilogrammes of CO e per vehicle mile operated.
This new metric 2 ensures there is a much closer link between our performance and the measures we are taking to improve our energy efficiency, such aspurchasing low emission buses and leasing more efficient rolling stock and rolling out LEDs.
To maintain transparency, we will What are the factors driving the challenging What is your view of the franchising model reportagainst both relative performance metrics this year before moving to reporting only on the new performance metric from next Q conditions in the bus market, and how are Q beingextended to bus markets outside London, year onwards with a target to achieve 20% reduction on C0 e per vehicle mile by 2021 from our 2016 17 baseline.
2 youadapting your business to meet and how could that impact your business?
We define our organisational reporting boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
We believe that working in partnership with local authorities is key to giving communities a reliable There are both cyclical and structural factors at play.
Overall, in 2017 18 CO e emissions have reduced by 13% in absolute terms and, against both relative metrics, our performance 2 andsuccessful bus service and growing passenger Economic uncertainty in the UK is causing reduced hascontinued to improve.
The absolute reduction in CO e emissions and the improved relative performance is partly due to the loss 2 numbers.
The Bus Services Act offers certain local volume growth.
This should improve as uncertainty of the London Midlands franchise in December 2017, but it is also due to continuing improvements in energy efficiency alongside authorities the opportunity to franchise and we are clears.
Structurally, there are also changes in travel on-going investment in low carbon, fuel efficient vehicles and rolling stock, as well as the lower CO e conversion factor for electricity.
2 waitingto see what happens in Manchester.
The current patterns with more people working from home, increased Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis due to the difficulty in obtaining this data.
These cuts to Londons services show that franchised services levels of internet shopping and more home based leisure emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total GHG emissions and are therefore not considered material.
are not immune from reducing passenger numbers activity.
We are confident that buses have an important 2017 18 2016 17 2015 16 2014 15 asaconsequence ofcongestion and the wider sociorole to play in mobility especially where there is population Total passenger journeys m 1,244.88 1,334.09 1,297.23 1,239.89 economic trends.
Franchising alone will not reduce growth and buses are part of the solution tothe issues congestion, improve airquality or create local economic Total bus & rail mileage m 713.9 684.6 675 617 ofcongestion and air quality.
In this environment, we growth.
Our operatorsalready have multi-operator aremaintaining our focus on customer service, using CONSUMPTION TCO e CONSUMPTION TCO e CONSUMPTION TCO e CONSUMPTION TCO e 2 2 2 2 tickets, joint bus and rail tickets, simple fares, real time technology and innovation to make bus travel more Scope 1 information, apps, contactless payment, WiFi and next attractive and easier to use.
Our focus on cost and stopannouncements.
Further benefits can all be delivered efficiency also continues.
Recognising the long term Gas buses kwhs m 6.1 1,118 3.7 685 6 1,162 6.9 1,275 through partnership thinking.
nature of these trends, we are developing for the future Gas premises bus m 22.1 4,062 19.1 3, 518 17 3,141 18.8 3,472 of transport with a number of initiatives being trialled to Gas premises rail m 31.3 5,759 34.3 6,316 34 6,243 34.9 6,437 provide attractive customer propositions in achanging Gas premises total kwhs m 53.4 53.4 51 53.7 world, which have the potential to grow in the future.
Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Thisprovides the most accurate figure for consumption.
Electric bus electricity consumption includes an estimate for unbilled consumption during meter failure.
Local Singapore CO2e conversion factor used for electricity consumption UK CO2e conversion factor used for diesel consumption.
Energy consumption and CO e figures have been verified by Bureau Veritas.
2 Patrick Butcher David Brown Andrew Allner Group Chief Group Chief Executive Chairman Financial Officer 32 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GROUP Q&A CONTINUED What are the impacts on your business from How do you counter the arguments for With private equity interest in the sector How do you allocate capital across your Q the continuing uncertainties around the shape Q  in the UK?
Q recently, what is your view on whether this Q different businesses to ensure that you achieve of the UKs departure from the EU?
could extend to Go-Ahead and on prospects for attractive returns?
We have worked in rail with different governments and will continue to do so.
Much of the rail industry, in terms restructuring or consolidation in the sector?
We are not seeing significant direct impacts from the Brexit Our overall capital principles are to manage the balance of the infrastructure, is already government controlled.
There is no restriction on non-EU groups sheet consistent with the maintenance of an investment We have an attractive business, and we believe that We believe in the benefits of private sector delivery of bidding for bus and rail contracts in the markets which grade rating, with a target net debt excluding restricted weare well placed for the future as an independent public services through the customer focus and access we are targeting in our international strategy, and we do rail cash to EBITDA of 1.5 times to 2.5 times whilst company.
If interest were shown in us, we would naturally to private investment this can bring.
The number of rail not believe that this will change.
For our UK businesses, paying an attractive dividend.
Our capital allocation fulfil our fiduciary duty and give it the appropriate level of journeys has more than doubled since privatisation and uncertainty around Brexit has held back UK growth recently prioritises sustaining profits from existing businesses, consideration.
We have not seen evidence of significant much of the investment in rail over the next few years will and dampened demand for our services.
This could improve tomeet commitments in franchises or other contracts, consolidation taking part in the sector and in fact there be private money in new rolling stock.
We have one of the as more clarity emerges.
The most direct impact on our UK and to build a sustainable business for the future.
are now more rail operators than five years ago.
As local safest railways in the world and customer satisfaction business potentially relates to changes in the labour market Indeciding between businesses, we carefully consider opportunities present themselves, we are able to pursue across the UK network is the highest for a major railway as we have a diverse workforce, particularly in London.
Our thepotential returns that could be generated and the bolt-on acquisitions, as we have done this year, and in in Europe.
For taxpayers too, there have been benefits, forward planning has helped us to have a good flow of hiring potential risks associated with those returns.
some cases, where other bus operators have withdrawn with train operating companies paying more to and training apprenticeships which means that we will be from services, we have been able to step in and secure To what extent are you seeing wage cost government in premium payments than they receive in able to meet our staffing requirements both in terms of services for customers at acceptable margins.
As a subsidies for the seventh year in a row during 2016 17.
Q pressures building in your businesses as UK numbers andskills.
potential acquirer, we carefully evaluate all opportunities unemployment remains low and the rate of that arise and maintain our financial discipline as we put How will you sustain an attractive dividend together bids.
Q ifyoulose the Southeastern rail franchise How would you explain the issues which We are fully committed to being a good employer.
How robust and diversified is your business afteralready having lost the London Q arosefrom the timetable change at GTR, Thismeans paying our people fairly and sustainably for model in the event that you dont win the new Midlandfranchise?
It also means providing a and what are the potential implications South Eastern franchise or many more We understand the importance of the dividend to good working environment and opportunities to develop, and lessons learned?
The stable performance of our bus so that our colleagues can fulfil their potential.
In This was a collective failure of the industry in implementing business is the foundation of our dividend and the Board ourLondon business, a contract pricing indexation We have submitted a strong bid for the new South the biggest timetable change in a generation, and we are regularly reviews our dividend policy to ensure that it mechanism adjusts for general wage inflation.
In regional Eastern franchise and we are optimistic about our very sorry for the unacceptable level of disruption that it remains appropriate and attractive.
Our new dividend bus, we have managed wage inflation and protected our prospects for international contracts.
Nevertheless, caused to some of our passengers.
As a result of the sheer policy of a payout ratio between 50% and 75% of earnings margins and our rail contracts have built-in assumptions ourstrategic thinking and planning processes consider number of changes required, the process took longer than provides additional flexibility to safeguard an attractive on wage inflation that we have been broadly arange of possible scenarios in which we would manage anticipated, approvals for service changes were delayed dividend under different circumstances, and provides consistentwith.
the business accordingly to maintain a robust financial and some timetable requests were changed.
This meant shareholders with greater clarity on the possible range structure and an attractive dividend.
As this year has that operators had much less time to prepare for the new ofdividend payments each year.
We believe we have demonstrated, we have a resilient bus business which timetable.
As anindustry we need to learn lessons and we submitted a sensible bid for South Eastern which is provides a robust underpin to our financial performance.
welcome thereview being undertaken by the Office of Rail bothoperationally deliverable and economically rational.
and Road which we hope will improve industry processes Together with the strong management, engaged teams, for the future.
We are focused on running a stable and improved customer satisfaction and reliability we have reliable service, and since July reliability and punctuality delivered over the past few years on the service, we have significantly improved.
believe we have a good chance of winning the new franchise.
We have also been developing our international What is your view of the current rail activities with a view to either replace the earnings of Q franchising model and how should it be We continue to focus on making theSouth Eastern franchise over the medium term or amended going forward?
providing additional earnings growth, depending on the bus travel easier and more We support closer working with Network Rail and we bid outcome.
agree with the Secretary of State that one size does attractive for our customers, Why dont you accelerate progress in your notfitall for rail franchises.
We would welcome using technology and innovation Q smallerand simpler franchises, with a steady pipeline international strategy through acquisition?
ofopportunities to maintain market interest, reducing the tocomplement our reliable, We have a clear and disciplined approach to international cost of bidding and lowering the level of capital required expansion.
This involves playing to our strengths in friendly services.
We would also like to see a process markets which have stable political and legal systems, which is more focused on outcomes for passengers than and working with transport authorities which are open prescriptive inputs currently required in bid submissions.
tothe expertise we can deliver.
We also look for low David Brown, This would give operators the flexibility to use their skills capital requirements as well as a visible pipeline of work Group Chief Executive and innovation to deliver the services that customers, inourtarget markets.
To date, this has led us to prefer communities and the economy require.
entry into a new market through contracts with local authorities, rather than acquisitions which require higher capital outlay.
Once we have built an established market presence, and deeper local market knowledge, then acquisitions may become a bigger consideration.
34 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
