STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY Our vision The route ahead A world where every journey is taken care of We have a clear and simple strategy: to protect and grow our We generate value for our investors, corebusiness: win new bus and rail contracts: and develop for by building a sustainable business which meets future transport needs.
The Go-Ahead strategy feeds into our the needs of our customers and communities vision and is underpinned by our beliefs and attitudes and helps usunderstand where we are going, why we are going there and Our vision will be delivered by our three strategic objectives what we have to do to get there.
Through this strategy, we aim to deliver an excellent service for our customers, returns for our shareholders and value for all Go-Ahead stakeholders.
Our evolving strategy Develop for the Protect and Win new bus Over the last year, we have made progress in evolving our strategy, to reflect some of the future of transport grow the core and rail contracts widerareas that we focus on as a business.
Using our skills, knowledge Safeguarding and developing Securing contracts in The key change themes from last years strategy, Lean processes, Technology, Customer and assets to explore new our core bus and rail theUK and using our core experience, Culture change and Leadership, have been embedded into the Group and now growth opportunities for businesses through our experience to expand into formpart of our everyday activities.
As these themes naturally evolved throughout the year, thefuture of ourbusiness three operating divisions international markets weidentified additional key areas for which Go-Ahead has a responsibility for and have sharpened our strategy to focus our direction going forward.
By proactively engaging with our stakeholders, their feedback enabled us to formulate our updated strategy and therefore improve our operations, products and services going forward.
With responsibility as a business for safer and Through the areas of Better teams, Happier customers, Stronger communities, Smarter technology and a Cleaner environment, we aim to deliver change, shape our culture and Better teams Happier customers Stronger communities Smarter technology Cleaner environment preparefor the future challenges and opportunities facing us and our wider industry.
We are committed to Our customers are at We enable communities We invest in technological We promote the benefit By working collaboratively and in partnership with all of our stakeholders and ensuring we attracting, developing theheart of what we do.
to flourish by providing solutions and utilise our that public transport has operate in an open and sustainable way, we are able to deliver our vision: a world where andretaining the best We aim to provide high access to education, marketleading retail over private in improving everyjourney is taken care of.
talent and driving high levels of customer retailand employment, capabilities to drive air quality and strive levels of motivated and serviceacross all allowing people to growth and innovation.
toreduce any negative engaged colleagues.
impact we may have onthe environment.
Our approach is underpinned by our core beliefs and attitudes To assess the effectiveness of the different pillars of our strategy, we measure a broad range of financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
Our beliefs Our attitudes There is a clear link from our strategy to the remuneration structure of senior management.
Read how remuneration is influenced by strategy on page 82.
Read how risks may impact strategy on page 44.
We believe in We are Trusting people Accountable Being can do people Down to earth Building relationships Collaborative Being one stepahead Agile 8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
