STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating sustainable value We create value for all our stakeholders through our sustainable business model Our resources and strengths...... enable our business... to create value and outputs for our stakeholders Our success is dependent on effectively using our key Our key resources and strengths enable us to generate By running a profitable, sustainable and responsible business, we create value and deliver long term benefits resources and strengths revenue through our three operating divisions: regional to shareholders, passengers and communities bus, London bus and rail Stakeholder relationships Meeting customer needs We work closely with our stakeholders which include We deliver high quality, locally focused services, enabled 91% customers, communities, strategic partners and suppliers, by our devolved structure, which ensures a better Revenue and profit are generated through our regional bus customer Customers government and investors.
These relationships are built on understanding of our customers and ability to respond three operating divisions in two main ways: satisfaction score mutual understanding and trust, and on our commitment totheir needs.
Through this, we have maintained our 1.
The provision of transport services to fare-paying 2017: 90% toengage with all our stakeholders to provide a high sectorleading position on our regional bus customer passengers, whose revenue covers the cost of service quality service.
Most bus operations in the UK outside London operate on this commercial basis.
The provision of passenger transport services on behalf Dedicated people Securing a skilled workforce 66% ofpublic sector transport authorities.
We tender for and We employ around 28,000 people whose work and We strive to be a best in class employer by providing a colleague engagement score operate contracts in two main sub-categories: Our people dedication are key to the success of Go-Ahead.
High levels rewarding work environment, offering market related 2017: 59% Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue of colleague engagement, job satisfaction and providing compensation and rewarding performance.
As a comprises payments made by the transport authority asafe, supportive working environment contribute to responsible employer, we are focused on colleague tous with the authority retaining all fare revenue ourperformance.
By creating a culture of excellence, wellbeing, retention, training and development.
This includes the weensure we maintain a skilled and motivated workforce.
UKLondon bus market and the GTR rail franchise.
102.08p Net cost contracts where our revenue is a full year dividend payment Investors Creating profits combinationofincome from fares and payments 2017: 102.8p Financial platform fromtransport authorities.
Most UK rail franchises By effectively managing the inputs to our business and Our cash generative capabilities and a conservative level of arerun on this basis.
executing our strategy, we create profits and cash returns net debt enables us to ensure that our business remains which enable us to pay interest on our debt and to provide Good cost controls are vital in areas such as staff utilisation, well funded and that we can continue to reinvest cash into an attractive dividend to our shareholders.
fuel efficiency and negotiating and managing contractual operations, deliver returns to our providers of capital and 1.9bn relationships.
Part of the Groups core skill set is managing take advantage of growth opportunities that emerge.
payment to suppliers all of these areas without compromising safety or quality.
Strategic partners Prioritising sustainability 2017: 1.9bn and suppliers The transport we provide helps to support economic Driving performance against Fleet and depots growth.
As a significant purchaser of products and our threestrategic priorities: We operate over 5,000 buses and run 952 trains through services, our operations provide funds to suppliers.
acombination of outright ownership and leasing assets to Wemanage this value chain to minimise risks and take our customers to where they need to go in a safe and contribute to the efficient delivery of our services.
We continue to invest in our asset base corporation tax payments Government and, in the last year, our capital expenditure amounted togovernment Protect and Win new bus and Develop for the to126.7m.
2017: 34.1m grow the core rail contracts future of transport Shaping policy and change We work closely with central and local government to The three pillars of our strategy help us build these shape policy and regulatory changes which enhance the relationships, providing great customer experience, Thought leadership future of transport and contribute to fiscal revenue controlling our costs and enabling us to invest for growth We have built our experience and reputation over throughour tax payments.
Through this strategy we aim to deliver 30yearsof operating in transport markets.
As a leader in excellent service to our customers, returns to our Communities carbon emissions per theindustry, we have substantial know how which includes shareholders and value to all of Go-Ahead stakeholders.
passenger journey our innovativetechnology and our forward thinking approach Enhancing communities 2017: 0.75kg to developingsolutions for the future of transport to enhance We make a significant and positive contribution to the customerexperiences.
communities in which we operate, enabling communities to remain connected, and do so in a responsible way.
Read how the voice of our stakeholders are heard by Westrive to reduce any negative impact our operations theBoardonpage 68. may have on the environment.
20 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
