Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate Governance The Group would remain viable, even in the event of severe and Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over a sustained house price deflation, as it would be able to accelerate longer period that the 12 months that has been required by the the natural conversion of our assets to cash including the sale of Going Concern provision.
In doing so, the Board considered the tenanted assets and reduce or suspend development and Groups current position and the potential impact of our principal acquisition activity.
Only an unprecedented and continued longrisks and future prospects.
term lack of liquidity in UK residential property markets would cause any threat to the Group.
In this situation, the Group has the The Group has completed two years of the five-year strategy option to continue to let assets to generate income and protect launched in 2016 with a number of significant milestones set out in overall asset value.
A comprehensive review of the Groups progress against this strategy has been completed in the year The Board has reviewed its strategic and financial plans in detail resulting in the plan being revalidated and extended beyond the and believes that a viability assessment period to September 2022 original timeframe, reflecting the scale of progress to date, along is appropriate, given this covers the period of the detailed strategy with the current outlook and future ambitions for the business.
review and incorporates both the investments and returns currently considered as being secured.
In addition, any of the principal risks This process resulted in a revised strategic plan being developed during this period could be managed.
The financial plan has been with and approved by the Board with year one forming the budget stress tested against severe and prolonged reductions in house for the next financial year.
This plan provides a basis for settling all prices.
detailed financial budgets and strategic actions that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance and the The financing risks of the Group are also considered to have an Remuneration Committee to set targets for annual incentive.
impact on the Groups financial viability.
The two principal financing risks for the Group are the Groups ability to replace expiring debt The viability assessment was made with the updated strategy facilities and adverse movements in interest rates.
The Group has forming the base case and then recognising the principal risks that secured funding to deliver the secured PRS pipeline and has could have an impact on the future performance of the Group see prepared the strategic plan on this basis.
In addition, the Group pages 34 to 36.
The planning review incorporates severe scenario manages its hedge exposure with interest rate swaps, caps and planning, with the amalgamation of multiple risks, including fixed rate facilities.
sensitivities to rental levels, asset valuations, financing and costs, in order to assess the potential impact on longer-term viability of Based on the Boards assessment, the Directors have a reasonable theGroup.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period to The Groups business model has proven to be strong and resilient September 2022. throughout the different economic cycles even with higher levels of gearing and over the long term, with consistent demonstration through its ability to sell assets and let vacant properties to provide Our 2018 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 37, has been stable income returns and cash generation, even during challenging reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on market conditions.
Currently the Group directly owns 1.7bn of 13 November 2018. residential property assets which are relatively liquid, as proven throughout previous property cycles.
Vanessa Simms Chief Financial Officer Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
