GRAINGER IN ACTION WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS ArGo 134 homes APARTMENTS E16 Creating, designing and developing new PRS homes provides us with control over the delivery of new buildings.
This 33m is important because in this emerging purchase price sector there is an undersupply of high-quality investment assets available in the market and our approach enables us to enhance returns.
c. 8% The success of our recent development, gross yield on cost Argo Apartments in Canning Town, is achieved based on our ability to originate, invest and operate our investments fully in-house, and we have organised the business to provide a strong focus on each area.
4 Find out more online: months, 97% let www.
co. uk 14 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information WHAT WE DID ORIGINATE Worked closely with developer, Linkcity Fully specified amenity High-spec, well-proportioned apartments Utilised off-site construction for exterior brick facade INVEST Our second deal with Bouygues UK Great location Walk Score 84 100 Very Walkable Great transport links Close to major employment zones Attractive pricing for local average income earners OPERATE Leasing and marketing The property is delivered in-house beautiful and the range of facilities 97% let in four months on offer is second to none.
Living at 5% above ERV Argo has genuinely improved my 20 customer NPS score quality of life and I couldnt ask for 4 residents events held a better base in London Resident at Argo Apartments Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 GRAINGER IN ACTION WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT CREATING LONG TERM COMMUNITIES FOR OUR RESIDENTS 614 homes 99m purchase price Creating spaces and communities is at the heart of what we do.
Our Clippers Quay customers will be part of a new rental community on the waterfront, with social events, a great range of c. 8% retailers and lots of outdoor space.
gross yield targeted Find out more online: 54% www.
co. uk phase 1 units pre-let 16 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information WHAT WE DID ORIGINATE Worked closely with developer, Amstone, and contractor, Sir Robert McAlpine Fully specified amenity High-spec, well-proportioned apartments Utilised modular off-site construction for bathrooms INVEST Great location, next to MediaCity UK, home of the BBC.
Walk Score 76 100 Very Walkable Great transport, next to tram stop, 15 mins to Manchester City Centre Close to major employment zones Bringing a new Very attractive pricing for local type of renting average income earners to Manchester, with smart, stylish OPERATE apartments and amenities at a price Pre-leasing and marketing with that the majority strong positive initial indicators of people working in Manchester Full on-site team overseeing can afford operations and lettings New digital marketing website Nicola, General and leasing journey Manager at Clippers Quay Place-making initiatives planned community events Public realm investment art, gardens, social spaces Community consultation and engagement events Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
