Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information DIRECTORS REPORT In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR, the information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in Note 16 to the financial statements on page 112 in relation to the dividend waiver arrangements.
Information incorporated by reference The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 38 to 80 forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Directors interests in significant contracts No Directors were materially interested in any contract of significance.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant and reliable: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with EU IFRS: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Financial risk management Details are included in Note 28 to the financial statements.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company has in place contractual entitlements for the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries to claim indemnification by the Company for certain liabilities they might incur in the course of their duties.
We have established these arrangements, which constitute qualifying third-party indemnity provision and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision, in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They include provision for the Company to fund the costs incurred by Directors in defending certain claims against them in relation to their duties.
The Company also maintains an appropriate level of Directors and officers liability insurance.
Sustainability A full breakdown of Environmental, Social and Governance performance for the company and our property portfolios in alignment with the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations is available on our website at www.
Scope 1 and 2 Global GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 Tonnes of CO e 2 2017 2018 Trend 2017 2018 Trend  from based based based based based based Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 771 697 10% 771 697 10% Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 698 747 7% 229 362 58% Total footprint 1,469 1,444 2% 1,000 1,059 6% Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above per m value of assets 1 under management 0.54 0.58 7% 0.37 0.43 15% 2 Emissions reported above per owned unit 0.24 0.24 1% 0.17 0.18 7% 3 Emissions reported above per employee 6.83 5.71 16% 4.65 4.18 10% Scope 3 Global GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 Emissions from 2017 2018 Trend Electricity transmission and distribution losses 65 70 8% Business travel air, rail and vehicles 97 90 7% 4 Estimated tenant energy use tCO2 29,381 27,295 -7% 5 Grainger office occupation landlord-obtained N R 31 1 Value of assets under management AUM on the last day of the financial year, expressed in m. 2 Number of owned units on the last day of the financial year within the scope of data collection.
3 Total number of employees of Grainger plc on the last day of the financial year.
4 This has been estimated based on a sample of Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and reported in CO2 only.
Includes landlord-obtained emissions for London Bridge office only.
Data was not available in 2017 due to metering changes.
Summary Grainger complies with the greenhouse gas GHG emissions reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Grainger reports all material GHG emissions using tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e as the unit of 2 2 measurement.
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 and we report emissions for the previous year to demonstrate the trend.
78 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information In 2018 we increased the scope of our GHG reporting to include emissions from the following assets and portfolios: Graingers portfolio of affordable homes which was not previously captured in our reporting.
Newly developed PRS asset Argo Apartments and recent acquisitions in the GRIP REIT portfolio.
Recent Grainger acquisitions, including a large portfolio of acquired properties in Liverpool, Leeds and Manchester which was not previously captured in our reporting.
The Aldershot office located on Graingers Wellesley development site.
This change in boundary has resulted in an increase of 13% in the Companys GHG emissions from property portfolios.
However, emissions for those assets under Graingers control in 2017 and 2018 have decreased by 6%.
In addition, emissions relating to Graingers owned fleet have reduced by 47% due to a reduction in the number of vehicles and mileage travelled.
Graingers market-based emissions have increased by 58% due to the number of PRS acquisitions now included, many of which are yet to transfer onto renewable energy contracts.
Some of these properties were acquired before the reporting year but data was not available to enable prior reporting.
Methodology Grainger follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard revised edition, DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines and ISO 14064: Part 1 standard for its reporting.
We have used the UK Government conversion factors 2018 for location-based reporting and the Association of Issuing Bodies European Residual Mixes 2017 for market-based reporting for calculating 2018 emissions.
We have reported on all emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have used the operational control consolidation method.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
For market-based emissions Grainger has used contractual instruments where there is data readily available.
We purchase 100% renewable electricity tariffs for 78% of applicable properties, which has resulted in lower Scope 2 emissions using the market-based approach compared with the location based approach.
Where no contractual data is available we use residual mix factors.
Scope 1 data This includes landlord-obtained gas consumed in common areas and by tenants on an unmetered basis as well as gas consumed in Graingers offices and fuel consumption in vehicles owned or leased by Grainger.
Fugitive emissions are not included as they have been assessed to be immaterial.
Scope 2 data This includes landlord-obtained electricity consumed in common areas and by tenants on an unmetered basis as well as electricity consumed by Grainger in its own offices.
Scope 3 data This includes estimated emissions from electricity used by Graingers tenants in its buildings based on EPC analysis and extrapolation.
Emissions from the transmission and distribution of Graingers Scope 2 electricity are included.
Also reported are emissions from business travel and electricity recharged to Grainger for one office London Bridge where it is a tenant.
A more detailed breakdown of our carbon footprint for our property portfolios and the methodology used is available in our EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures Report, available on our website at www.
Restatements and estimation We have recalculated emissions for 2017 as we are able to report more accurate and complete data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from energy consumption in our property portfolios and occupied offices.
Our Scope 2 market-based emissions for 2017 have also been restated, as although our renewable energy contract has been in place since 2016 this was not reported fully last year.
We have also restated our associated Scope 3 emissions from electricity transmission and distribution losses, estimated tenant emissions and business travel.
Our restated estimated tenant emissions are significantly higher than reported last year due to an improvement in the accuracy of our estimation methodology and the inclusion of Graingers affordable housing portfolio, previously not reported.
Our 2017 Scope 1 and 2 emissions were previously reported as 1,450 tCO e and our Scope 3 emissions as 17,311 tCO e. 2 2 Where Grainger-obtained utility consumption data is partially unavailable or unreliable for an asset, estimation has been undertaken by extrapolating actual data to fill gaps in consumption.
For 2018 13% of Scope 1 emissions and 19% of Scope 2 emissions have been estimated.
For more information on restated data and the estimation methodology used, please refer to Graingers EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures Report.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Intensity metrics We have used three intensity metrics: emissions by market value of AUM tCO e m value of AUM, emissions per the number of owned 2 units tCO e owned unit and emissions per number of employees in line with our financial reporting tCO e employee.
2 2 Third party review The energy consumption and associated GHG emissions data reported in this statement has been reviewed and analysed by JLL note: this does not represent formal assurance with calculations carried out in line with best practice see methodology section.
Health and safety Grainger has a well-developed health and safety management system for the internal and external control of health and safety risks, managed by the Health and Safety Director.
This includes using online risk management systems for identifying, mitigating and reporting real time health and safety management information.
The Health and Safety Committee is responsible for overseeing health and safety management.
It consists of members of staff from across the organisation.
The Committee continues to monitor legal compliance in health and safety through audit and implementation of improvements, to enable the Group to become best in class.
Further oversight is also carried out by the Operations Board.
In addition, a health and safety report is provided to each meeting of the Board of Directors, and the Health and Safety Director gives a presentation to the Board at least once a year.
Employment of disabled persons The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their employment within the Company continues, and that we arrange appropriate training where necessary.
It is Company policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee engagement The Group places considerable value on the engagement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them informed on and involved in business and strategic matters, for example through team meetings, presentations by senior management and regular all-staff conference calls hosted by the Executives.
For more information on our people, see page 28.
Independent auditor and disclosure of information to auditor As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken the steps they ought to have taken as Directors, to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Political donations In accordance with the Companys policy, we made no political donations in 2018 2017: nil.
Takeover directive On a change of control, the main bank facility included in Note 27 to the financial statements will become repayable should alternative terms for continuing the facilities not be agreed with the lenders within 45 days.
In addition, the corporate bond also referred to in Note 27 may become repayable following a change of control.
There are no other material matters relating to a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The Directors have confirmed approval of the Directors report.
Adam McGhin Company Secretary 13 November 2018 80 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
