54 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our portfolio Our portfolio 100% central London % We have a unique, focused property portfolio with a mix of characteristics that provides deep North of Oxford Street 1,281.9m 7 Rest of West End 669.3m 7 opportunities for future growth and sustainable City 433.9m income to support our operational activities.
Southwark 209.4m Midtown 195.5m 16 D riving value from real estate 46 requires far more expertise than merely collecting the rent.
Each of our assets has a detailed business plan setting out our strategy to extract 24 the maximum return from our The locations of our assets reflect our preference for the activities.
If those returns are West End, which comprises 70% of the portfolio.
However, not sufficient, the asset is sold.
we remain opportunistic and will invest across central Steven Mew Portfolio Director London where we see both value and opportunities for growth as demonstrated by our most recent acquisition ofCityside andChallenger House in Whitechapel, E1 which Operational measures we expect tobenefit significantly from Crossrail opening later this year.
Movement in property Percentage of portfolio 2.9% 48% valuation on a like-forin development See why London on pages 6 and 7 like basis programme Reduction in like-for- % of portfolio Positioned for organic growth 3.3% 97% like landlord purchased with EPC rating F In 2009 and 2012, we raised capital to take advantage of the energy value that we saw in the investment market.
As a result, we were net buyers in the four financial years to 31 March 2013.
Our approach These acquisitions have helped stock our future development We aim to position our portfolio to maximise the programme which totals 48% of the Groups portfolio.
As a result, every property Our central London portfolio % has a detailed business plan which forecasts each and every occupiers future cash flows and, using our own Long-dated 11 16 assumptions for future movements in rents and yields, Active asset management Development pipeline forecasts the forward look returns for the portfolio.
Committed developments If a propertys prospective returns do not meet our required investment hurdles, taking into account both our cost of capital and the risks, typically it is sold.
Ensuring that our properties meet the requirements 37 36 of modern occupiers is fundamental to the delivery ofour business plans.
We aim to deliver buildings that let well in their local markets, are future-proofed in a rapidly changing world and have regard tothewider Of the remainder of the portfolio, 36% are buildings environment in which they are located.
Through the where wewill add future value through active responsible management and development of our portfolio management.
Typically, these buildings have portfolio, we aim to deliver sustainable returns that shorter leases, are reversionary and have significant enhance the long-term value of our business.
The long-dated assets, representing 16% of the portfolio, Well located central London portfolio are properties that we recently redeveloped and are long Our focused business model is all about repositioning let.
Given the long lease terms we have achieved on these properties to unlock their full potential.
This repositioning buildings, there is typically limited opportunity for us to add relies on having a deep understanding of the markets further value.
As a result, over time, we expect to crystallise in which we operate, both to enable us to unearth new the profits we have made through sales.
opportunities as we find them and to deliver buildings that Looking forward, the portfolio is exceptionally well placed meet the demands of modern occupiers.
As a result, we to deliver future growth.
With 48% of todays portfolio focus on a single market, central London.
within our development programme, we do not need to source new acquisitions for growth as we already own the development schemes of the future.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 55 Creating Sustainable Spaces: 55 Wells Street, W1 In November 2017, we completed our 37,300 sq ft development To ensure that our buildings have a sense of place, it is essential in the heart of Fitzrovia.
Our goal was to incorporate elements that they continue to contribute to the local community once from our long-term vision for sustainability Creating Sustainable completed.
We commissioned Lee Simmons, one of Britains Spaces into the building from the outset.
most sought after creators of public art, to design an art piece to complement the office entrance.
Drawing inspiration from We undertook a climate change adaptation strategy as part the nearby Grade I listed All Saints Church on Margaret Street, of the design process to appraise the structural and fabric the piece, named Arcus, incorporates blocks of Portland stone, resilience of the building to minimise the effects of climate prepared and shaped to celebrate the ancient skills of hand change.
Designed to minimise its carbon footprint with the stone carving.
installation of photovoltaic panels, energy efficient lighting and air conditioning systems, the building improves on current We are also pleased to welcome the Cartoon Museum to the Building Regulations requirements for energy efficiency building.
The Cartoon Museum is a charitable organisation by 20%.
All the timber used on the scheme complied with that collects and exhibits original artwork from British cartoons FSC requirements, achieving FSC Chain of Custody Project and comics, past and present.
The collection ranges from early Certification and 99% of all the construction waste was 20th Century political and social cartooning to original comic divertedfrom landfill.
The Museum fits well with the creative and individual nature of Fitzrovia and is planning to be in occupation later this In order to meet the ever increasing wellbeing needs of year.
We have given the Museum a secure, rent-free home for todaysoccupiers, we provided 38 bike spaces with lockers and the next 25 years which provides a lasting way in which the local showers, allowing occupiers to take advantage of opportunities community and visitors can interact with the building.
for active commuting and daily exercise.
With high ceilings andlight-filled floors, artwork in the entrance lobby and terraces We utilised our soft landings process throughout the design, on the first and sixth floors, as well as a communal rooftop construction and operational phases, resulting in our building terrace, the building offers generous wellbeing amenities.
management team being involved early in the process.
This ensured that the operational performance of the building During construction, 148,000 of economic, environmental and social value was generated by the project through training and was considered as part of the buildings design, allowing for the employment opportunities, educational initiatives, volunteering smooth transition from construction to operation and ensuring and funds invested into local charities and community causes.
the buildings systems operate efficiently.
The next stage will As part of Westminster Universitys Construction Studies be toundertake post occupancy evaluation to review how the degree programme, our project team worked with a number building performs in use and to understand the effectiveness ofundergraduate students to create procurement plans ofthe wellbeing measures installed.
which were presented to key members of our management team, including our Head of Projects.
Building visits were also facilitated to provide in-depth exposure to a real-life construction site.
Strategic Report Annual Review 56 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our portfolio continued Drivers of valuation growth With a relatively benign market backdrop, valuation growth in 0 our portfolio came from those 0.3% 2.1% 0.5% 2.9% assets where we were able to beat the valuers assumptions, Rental value Yield Residual typically through leasing ahead of ERV and pre-letting space in Our North of Oxford Street portfolio produced the our developments.
strongest performance over the year, increasing in value Hugh Morgan by 3.5% on a like-for-like basis, in part driven by retail Director of Investment capital value growth of 4.8%.
Our Rest of West End assets Management saw a 2.4% increase in values and the City, Midtown and Southwark properties increased by 0.4%.
Our joint venture Portfolio value up 2.9% in year properties increased in value by5.4% over the year, driven by the greater proportion of development returns, while the Given supportive occupational and investment markets wholly-owned portfolio rose by 2.4% on a like-for-like basis.
during the period, central London property values demonstrated small valuation gains.
The valuation of our The Group delivered a total property return TPR for portfolio, including our share of joint ventures, increased the year of 5.5%, compared to the central London IPD by 71.8 million, or 2.9%, on a like-for-like basis, to benchmark of 8.2% and a capital return of 2.5% versus 2,790.0 million at 31 March 2018.
This relative under-performance resulted from our higher than benchmark exposure to investment The key drivers behind the Groups valuation movement properties with shorter lease lengths, where valuations forthe year were: were less resilient given the potential leasing risk.
development gains the valuation of our committed These properties form our development pipeline and development properties increased by 7.0% on a  management opportunities where income like basis to 350.9 million during the year.
The largest is necessarily shorter to enable us to unlock the future valuation movements in the year were driven by our long-term value upside.
pre-letting activities at 160 Old Street, EC1 and Hanover Long-term outperformance Square, W1 which helped to fide-risk the developments Relative returns vs IPD andimprove development returns: 1 Relative capital growth % pa See development management on pages 38 to 41 intensive asset management during another strong 320 year, 102 new leases, rent reviews and renewals were 280 completed, with new lettings 2.6% ahead of ERV, securing 240 39.8 million our share of annual income, supporting the 200 valuation over the year: 160 See portfolio management on pages 42 and 43 120 stable rental values in the past 12 months, rental values 80 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 had a limited impact on asset values, rising marginally GPE Benchmark Universe 0.3% on a like-for-like basis: and See our market on pages 31 to 35 1.
2004 first pure comparability to IPD central London.
lower investment yields our portfolio equivalent yield reduced by 10 basis points 2017: 15 basis point increase during the year, driven by our development completions and pre-lettings.
At 31 March 2018, the portfolio equivalent yield was 4.5%.
See our market on pages 31 to 35 Including rent from pre-lets and leases currently in rent-free periods, the adjusted initial yield of the investment portfolio at 31 March 2018 was 4.0%, 50 basis points higher than atthe start of the financial year.
Portfolio characteristics Total Investment Development property Net internal properties properties portfolio Office Retail Residential Total area sq ft m m m m m m m 000s North of Oxford Street 1,140.4 141.5 1,281.9 861.7 369.1 51.1 1,281.9 977 Rest of West End 531.3 138.0 669.3 331.3 326.0 12.0 669.3 574 Total West End 1,671.7 279.5 1,951.2 1,193.0 695.1 63.1 1,951.2 1,551 City, Midtown and Southwark 746.4 92.4 838.8 802.9 32.2 3.7 838.8 1,335 Total 2,418.1 371.9 2,790.0 1,995.9 727.3 66.8 2,790.0 2,886 By use: Office 1,770.4 225.5 1,995,9 Retail 588.3 139.0 727.3 Residential 59.4 7.4 66.8 Total 2,418.1 371.9 2,790.0 Net internal area sq ft 000s 2,474 412 2,886 2.8 billion Portfolio valuation Strategic Report Annual Review 58 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our portfolio continued Creating a sustainable portfolio D uring the year, we updated The integration of sustainability and wellbeing in the design our sustainable development brief taking into account the and operation of our properties is key to ensuring that our long-term aims of the London buildings continue to meet the requirements of occupiers Environmental Strategy, and therefore successfully deliver our business plans.
proposed London Plan and Our long-term vision for sustainability Creating Sustainable the 2018 updates to BREEAM Spaces sets out how we plan to manage resource use and NewConstruction Scheme.
minimise our carbon footprint, address air quality and health Janine Cole and wellbeing, whilst providing flexible, smart spaces for Head of Sustainability ouroccupiers with increasingly diverse requirements.
S ee our long term vision: www.
co. uk media 2604 gpe sustainability 2030 report.
pdf Our buildings energy performance ratings We recognise our obligation to minimise our carbon 0% A footprint, adapt building design to withstand the impact 14% B of climate change and play our part in international efforts 14% C to limit global temperature rise.
Last year, we set long-term 35% D energy and carbon targets for our portfolio, aiming to 10% E achieve a minimum 2.5% energy reduction across landlord controlled areas on a like-for like basis year on year, with 2% F a view to continuing this target annually until 2020.
Similarly, 1% G we committed to a target of achieving an annual carbon All F and G rated demises are being actively managed.
intensity emissions reduction of 6.3% based on carbon Where vacant they are being refurbished: where they are emissions per sq ft.
The below table sets out our progress currently let, refurbishment plans are in place to improve the against these targets.
energy rating as and when the space becomes vacant.
Reduction in likeReduction in absolute for-like landlord gross CO2 emissions We are now turning our attention to E rated buildings, with Financial year purchased energy intensity energy action plans in place for all buildings to continually 2016 5.6% 12.8% review where energy efficiencies can be made to ensure that 2017 2.3% 15.2% as requirements on minimum energy efficiency standards 2018 3.3% 16.0% are raised, we are not at risk of having buildings in the portfolio that cannot be let.
All our electricity is purchased on 100% renewable contracts and we are reviewing extending this to gas supplies as We recognise that EPC ratings are a measure of the potential contracts expire to further reduce our carbon footprint.
energy efficiency of a building rather than a reflection of actual energy consumption.
There is growing recognition In April 2018, it became illegal to grant new leases on within the property industry that buildings with higher EPC spaces with Energy Performance Certificate EPC ratings ratings e. g. A, A and B ratings are often using more energy ofF andG.
Our core business is to buy unloved assets once in use than their designers originally anticipated.
In light and to reposition them through refurbishment and of this, in addition to modelling operational energy use at development.
It is therefore inevitable that we will always design stage, we also compare actual operational usage as have lower rated properties in our portfolio.
However, part of our post occupancy evaluation process to ensure that prior to purchase of an asset, we always review the level of our buildings are being operated as designed.
investment required to improve the EPC rating.
In addition, where we are refurbishing spaces, work is targeted to Our post occupancy evaluation process is invaluable for improve the existing EPC by at least one grade, with costs understanding customer satisfaction with their new workplace.
related to introducing energy efficiencies included in all During the year ended March 2018, we carried out our first refurbishment plans.
customer satisfaction survey and within the survey we looked at how our occupiers rated us for sustainability and wellbeing.
The diagram opposite sets out our EPC ratings by floor area 79% of respondents said that sustainability was important in connection with Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards.
or very important to them, with some occupiers feeling that recycling and waste storage facilities could be improved.
As part of our long-term vision Creating Sustainable Spaces, we are reviewing how we can consolidate waste from our buildings to provide an improved waste management service for more occupiers and also reduce vehicle movements related to waste collections in and around our buildings.
See our relationships on page 49 to 53 A number of occupiers are also looking to improve the health and wellbeing provision for their employees.
We are actively looking at how we retro-fit increased wellbeing initiatives into our existing buildings, with new cycle centres and shower facilities installed during recent refurbishments of Elsley House, W1, 200 Grays Inn Road, WC1 and 35 Portman Square, W1.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 59 Adapting to climate change Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all Attention on climate risk is gradually increasing, with the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 recent publication of the final report from the Task Force on Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 Climate-related Financial Disclosures and increased levels for the financial year to 31 March 2018 and includes further of interest on climate risk from the investment community comparison on a like-for-like basis.
For more information on our carbon emissions, including Governance on climate-related risks and opportunities emissions adjusted for market based factors and is led by the Head of Sustainability.
Our Sustainability our report against EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Committee chaired by the Chief Executive meets quarterly Recommendations, see our performance report at and is attended by three other members of our Executive www.
It provides oversight on climate risk and achievement against our Long Term Vision, which includes 2018 2017 Tonnes Tonnes energy and carbon performance targets.
of CO2e of CO2e Annually, a report is provided to the Board on our Scope 1 performance against targets, our future sustainability Combustion of fuel and operation of our facilities 2,275 2,469 strategy and our Environmental, Social and Governance risk.
Operation of facilities refrigerants 160 402 Sustainability data is publicly reported in our Annual Report, Scope 2 with a more detailed report provided on our website aligned Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 13,726 16,953 with EPRA Best Practice Recommendations for Sustainability Head office usage 77 79 Reporting, with assurance provided by Deloitte LLP and Total footprint 16,239 19,904 oversight provided by the Audit Committee.
Intensity Measure 2 Emissions per m gross internal area 0.0650 0.0770 We recognise that as a developer we have an obligation to Like-for-like emissions design low carbon buildings and to reduce our contribution Absolute emissions on a like-for-like basis 14,121 16,804 to climate change through the efficient use of resources.
2 Emissions per m on a like-for-like basis 0.0735 0.0875 We also need to ensure that our buildings are capable of withstanding the effects of climate change and potential Like-for-like data compares emissions at properties held for extreme weather events.
During the year, we updated our the entirety of 2017 and 2018.
Sustainable Development Brief, taking into account the Independent assurance long-term aims of the London Environmental Strategy, the proposed changes to the London Plan and the 2018 update Independent assurance is provided by Deloitte LLP in to the BREEAM New Construction standard.
accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
Through the use of building ratings tools such as BREEAM and SKA, and the continued integration of our Sustainable Our methodology Development Brief throughout the design and construction For our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement, we have process, we ensure a consistent approach to sustainability used the operational control consolidation method as this and specifically to managing the risks of climate change best reflects our property management arrangements and across our development process.
This includes: our influence over energy consumption.
For the first time this year we have normalised our scope 1 emissions to take a site specific systematic climate change adaptation risk account of degree days.
We have restated our 2016 figures assessment for all projects, covering the effects of climate in line with this approach.
Included in our operational control change on overheating, cooling, plant sizing, building data are emissions from our managed properties including structure and durability: 100% of emissions from joint venture properties and head a flood risk review including urban drainage systems and office usage.
We have not included within this data occupiers surface water run-off: usage or emissions from our development sites as these greening measures, such as green walls, green roofs and are considered to fall out of our scope 1 and 2 emissions.
terraces, to help reduce the impact of the heat island effect: Emissions in relation to our development sites are reported separately on our website, www.
the impact of embodied carbon through the construction Emissions from vacant space have been excluded as the process: and related carbon emissions are below a materiality threshold modelling of projected operational energy consumption of5%.
There are no company-owned vehicles to be reported.
Our Long Term Vision Creating Sustainable Spaces We have used DEFRA Environmental Reporting sets out how we plan to reduce our carbon footprint and Guidelines and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate adapt to climate change towards the 2030s.
forthcoming year, we will also be carrying out a complete review of the implications of the final report from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and considering the resilience of our climate change strategy taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios.
3.1% Reduction in like-for-like landlord purchased energy Strategic Report Annual Review
