92 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Effectiveness Our process Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee Terms of Reference are Nomination Committee members and attendance available on the Company website at www.
co. uk byothers about-us governance Chairman 3 meetings The Nomination Committee membership generally includes Martin Scicluna all of theNon-Executive Directors.
At the beginning of Members the year, the Nomination Committee comprised of the Wendy Becker Chairman of the Board, Martin Scicluna and six independent Non-Executive Directors, Elizabeth Holden until she Nick Hampton 1 retiredat the 2017 AGM, Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton, Elizabeth Holden 0 0 2 Richard Mully, Charles Philipps and Jonathan Short.
Richard Mully Alison Rose will become a member of the Committee Charles Philipps on1 September 2018.
Jonathan Short In attendance In making any recommendations for Board appointments, Toby Courtauld the Nomination Committee also consults with the Chief Executive and other members of the Board as appropriate.
Nick Sanderson During the year, Toby Courtauld and Nick Sanderson were Meetings attended invited to attend the Nomination Committee meetings to 1.
provide the Committee with updates on human resourcing 2.
Whilst unable to attend one meeting due to prior commitments, and succession planning and to provide their input to the Richard Mully provided his thoughts to the Chair in advance of succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors.
In making recommendations to the Board on Our approach Non-Executive Director appointments, the Nomination The key objectives of the Committee are to regularly Committee specifically considers the expected time review the skills and experience of the Board to ensure commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Director that it is the right size, structure and composition taking andother commitments they already have.
Agreement into account the skills, experience, independence, ofthe Board is also required before a director may accept knowledge and diversity, to consider any related any additional commitments to ensure possible conflicts succession planning including of Senior Executives ofinterest are identified and that the directors willcontinue below Board level, and to lead on the process for to have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Any other conflicts of interest are also considered at each Board meeting.
As part of these objectives, the Committee reviews and ensures that actions identified by the Board Evaluation Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specific process are appropriately followed up, recommends terms, but following the UK Corporate Governance to the Board both the composition of the Audit, Code, are subject to annual re-election and all proposed Nomination and Remuneration Committees taking into re-elections to the Board are formally considered by consideration individuals experience, ongoing training the Nomination Committee taking account of each and development and time commitments, and the individuals effectiveness and commitment to the role.
re-election of directors by shareholders at the Annual In addition, annually at its March meeting, the Nomination General Meeting.
Committee formally reviews the recommendations of the Board Evaluation process and progress against the recommendations from the previous year.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 93 With our culture of continuous improvement, we also This year our main focus has received regular updates through the year on the been oversight of employee restructuring and resourcing of our property teams.
talent development and retention initiatives, the GPEs Board composition and independence restructuring and resourcing of some of our property teams and As at 31 March 2018, the Board comprised the Chairman, the recruitment of an additional two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Non-Executive Director.
Alison Rose joined the Board on 4 April 2018.
Martin Scicluna The biographies of all members of the Board outlining the Chairman of the Nomination experience they bring to their roles are set out on pages Committee 64 and 65.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness, meeting with shareholders Dear fellow shareholder as appropriate.
A key element of my role is ensuring a culture of openness, transparency and debate and On behalf of the Nomination Committee, welcome to the helping Toby Courtauld to set the tone from the top.
Report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended Toby Courtauld, as Chief Executive, is responsible for 31 March 2018.
This year our main focus has been having setting the Groups strategic direction and implementing oversight of the restructuring and resourcing of the some the agreed strategy, the day-to-day management of ofour property teams, talent development and retention the Company and leading the Executive Committee.
initiatives and the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Charles Philipps, the Senior Independent Director, acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, leads the other Our approach to diversity independent Non-Executive Directors in the performance The Boards policy is that the selection of new Board evaluation of the Chairman and is also available to members should be based on the best person for the role.
Each year the terms of reference Whilst the Nomination Committee continues not to set for the roles of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior specific representation targets for women at Board level, Independent Director are revisited by the whole Board.
our policy on recruitment is that we expect our search consultants to ensure, where possible, at least 30% of potential Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered candidates are women.
This policy is mirrored by our independent of the Executive Management and free from Executive Committee for all recruitment below Board level.
any business or other relationship which could materially The benefits of diversity, including age, gender, core skills, interfere with their exercising of independent judgement.
experience and educational and professional background continue to be an active consideration whenever changes Ensuring the directors commitment to the Boards composition are contemplated.
Alison Rose andindependence in their roles joined the Board in April 2018.
Alisons appointment has Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified enchanced both the Boards gender diversity and its financial terms, but, following the UK Corporate Governance Code, andcommercial experience.
are subject to annual re-election.
All proposed re-elections to the Board are formally considered by the Nomination Talent development and resourcing Committee, taking account of each individuals continued We are keenly focused on the development of our employees effectiveness and commitment to the role, with those and, in addition to discussing the personal development directors who will have served more than six years on plans of the Executive Committee, Sally Learoyd, our Head theBoard being subject to particular focus.
of HR, and the Executive Directors attended our September 2017 and January 2018 Committee meetings to provide us with updates on talent development and retention plans, including the introduction of a mentoring programme by the Executive Committee and Senior Management to help broaden our individuals below the Board.
Directors tenure as at 31 March 2018 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Martin Scicluna 9 years 5 months Toby Courtauld 15 years 11 months Nick Sanderson 6 years 8 months Wendy Becker 1 year 2 months Nick Hampton 1 year 6 months Richard Mully 1 year 5 months Charles Philipps 4 years Jonathan Short 11 years Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Governance 94 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Effectiveness continued A Non-Executive Directors view 18 months in What is the level of involvement oftheNon-Executive Directors outside ofthe formal scheduled Board meetings?
Quite a lot, which Martin Scicluna made a point of covering as part of the interview process to ensure that I was aware of exactly the time commitment involved.
Firstly, there are a number of unscheduled board meetings during the year which are held to obtain approval for either property or financing transactions such as our commitment to the development at Hanover Square and the return of capital to shareholders.
Then, in addition to the Board property tours and the breakfast meetings with the members of the Executive Committee, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors before the Board dinners held in January, September and November.
Once a year, the Non-Executive and Executive Directors also meet without Martin Scicluna present to assess his Richard Mully joined GPE in December 2016 as a Non-Executive performance as Chairman.
Director serving on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The Executive Directors also encourage Committees.
He gives his view of his experience so far.
us to meet with Senior Managers outside the Board meetings which I regularly do, recently meeting with Robin Matthews What attracted you to join GPE?
How do you think your induction on the investment market and Andrew process could be improved on Managements track record, the quality White on our development pipeline, and of the portfolio, the potential of the forAlison Rose?
I know the other Non-Executive Directors development pipeline and the thought Six months after I joined we started do the same with other individuals.
that, with my property experience, a regular breakfast meeting programme In between Board meetings, Toby and I would hope to be able to add to the of three of the Non-Executive Directors Nick also provide regular email updates Board through appropriate challenge meeting with two members of the on matters such as deal progression, and debate.
These sessions investor and analyst feedback or health provide an opportunity to talk with the and safety matters which provide a good What was the most informative Executive Committee team and fellow level of continuity.
Lastly, as part of element of your induction?
Non-Executive Directors in an informal the Board evaluation process, I had Meetings with the teams below the setting with no fixed agenda and provide a feedbacksession with Martin Scicluna Board: either through the one-to-ones a useful forum to be able to be updated ona one-to-one basis.
with the Senior Management Team, on what is happening in the day-to-day the property tours where we met with How would you evaluate the operations and the associated challenges individuals who talked through the asset cultureatBoard?
which may not be significant enough plans or developments, or individuals individually to warrant formal reporting I have found the Board culture to be presentations to the Board.
collaborative, cohesive and constructive with the right balance of an effective So back to the question, I think mix of strong oversight, transparency Alisons involvement in these breakfast and openness to challenge.
I think meetings will be one of the most useful a key part of this is that Martin Scicluna parts of her induction and will enable her ensures everyone participates in the to relatively quickly both to get under the Board discussions.
Having all the Nonskin of GPE and immerse her in day-to-day Executive Directors on both the Audit and property terminology.
Nomination Committees also makes the Board meetings more efficient and means that all of the Non-Executive Directors have a good understanding of the key accounting and governance areas and workbeing done on people development.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 95 With Jonathan Short having served on the Board for tenyears by the time of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, his performance was specifically considered by the Board at the January and March 2017 Nomination and I h ave found the Board culture to be Board meetings and it was unanimously concluded that collaborative, cohesive and constructive he remained an effective independent director and that with the right balance of an effective the Board supported his continuing in office for another mix of strong oversight, transparency andopenness to challenge.
year with a view to his retiring at the 2018 AGM.
As part of this consideration, in 2017 we consulted with our top Richard Mully Non-Executive Director shareholders, together owning more than 40% of our shares, on retaining Jonathan Short on the Board for a further year.
As planned, Jonathan Short will retire from the Board at What do you think are some of the2018 AGM.
Disruption in the property sector and Board changes and succession planning making sure that we are sufficiently In August 2017, we appointed Zygos, who had successfully planning ahead for what both our worked with us in our appointments of Nick Hampton and current and future occupiers will Richard Mully in the previous 12 months and had no other want.
This is an area being actively addressed in part by James Pellatt in connection with the Company, to look for an additional his role as Director of Workplace and Non-Executive Director.
It was agreed with the Nomination Innovation and also by the Design Committee that Jonathan Short and I should meet with Review Panel which looks at each of the the shortlist of candidates, after which the preferred developments both well ahead of the candidates should meet with Charles Philipps and Wendy planning process and during the course Becker first before then meeting with Toby Courtauld and of construction to make sure things are Nick Sanderson prior to recommendations being made to evolved for changing requirements.
In addition, with GPEs people crucial to delivering our strategy and future After initial interviews of seven candidates, we were delighted development pipeline, I think its equally that, following meetings with the Non-Executive and important that we keep under review Executive Directors as outlined above, Alison Rose, Chief employee development and motivation, Executive Officer at Royal Bank of Scotland Commercial and and as part of this, the structure of Private Banking, who has significant financial and commercial employee remuneration.
experience from her current role and previous roles at What has surprised you the most NatWest Markets, accepted the role and joined the Board since joining GPE?
The strength and depth of the team In considering succession planning for my role as Chairman, across all levels and the systematic level after the April 2017 Board meeting, Charles Philipps, having of intellectual rigour in the approach to all areas.
I attended the year end first sought feedback from the Executive Directors, met results presentation to the analysts and with the other Non-Executive Directors without my being what struck me most was the candour present to consider my performance and recommended and professionalism of the team in the that I be asked to remain Chairman until 2019, subject to way they answered the wide variety review at the beginning of 2018 as part of the annual ofquestions in as clear and transparent re-election of directors.
Since then, and in view of my having way as possible.
served almost ten years on the Board, I have decided that I will retire at or before the 2019 AGM, provided a suitable successor is found.
The Board has decided that Charles Philipps will lead the process to find my successor, in close consultation with the Nomination Committee, and that Russell Reynolds will assist us in our search.
Martin Scicluna Chairman of the Nomination Committee 23 May 2018 Governance 96 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Effectiveness continued Our 2018 Board evaluation The process involved completion of a questionnaire The Board evaluation process followed by one-to-one meetings between me and gives me the opportunity eachdirector covering: to hear independently the views from the Chairman, the the Boards role, composition and operation: Executive and Non-Executive what Board members would like to focus on more: Directors on how well the Board is run and where we Board behaviours and protocols: could improve.
the Board and Committees performance: Charles Philipps recommendations arising from comparison with other Senior Independent Director Boards: and feedback on individuals performance.
Dear fellow shareholder, The output was reviewed initially by the Chairman and In accordance with our policy to undertake the Board then by the full Board at the January 2018 Board meeting.
evaluation process in-house between external evaluations held every three years, the Chairman asked me as Senior In addition, the recommendations from the 2018 Independent Director to conduct the review into the evaluation and the follow up of actions from the 2017 Board effectiveness for the year ending 31 March 2018, evaluation as outlined below were considered in more supported by Desna Martin, our Company Secretary.
detail at the March 2018 Nomination Committee meeting which was attended by all of the directors.
As well as looking to continually improve our Board processes, we use the Board evaluation process to reflect The directors were unanimous in their view that the on areas that the Board would like to see more details on.
Board and the Committees were operating effectively and that the Board had the appropriate range of skills and experience.
The quality of the Board discussions was good with a high level of trust and transparency.
The Executive Directors were seen as being open and engaged, while the non-Executive Directors brought a range of skills and experience, and ensured constructive debate.
Charles Philipps Senior Independent Director 23 May 2018 2017 18 actions Progress 2018 19 actions Creation of a skill matrix The Boards skills are summarised on page 65.
Succession planning for the Chairman.
Continued focus on Alison Rose appointed, providing greater Group wide articulation of GPE values.
gender diversity at the Board level and current strong operational skills and experience.
One-to-ones between One-to-ones held by the Chairman with the More Board debate on: theChairman and the Non-Executive Directors following the Board the changing way buildings are Non-Executive Directors evaluation process to provide specific feedback.
beingused: and to help guide them on how Formal half-year meetings arranged around the possible different their contribution could be November Board meeting.
Timely reviews provided The Final Appraisal was considered Board papers to be simplified and to the Board of lessons on30Broadwick Street, W1.
duplication to beremoved between learned.
Regular health and safety updates provided.
Results considered of both employee engagement and occupier satisfactionsurveys.
Development of an To be completed in 2018 19 incorporating Continued provision of updates overall Code of conduct GPEvalues.
betweenBoard meetings from the foremployees.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 97 What we did in 2017 18 2017 April Board meeting The Board and Committee memberships are approved Elizabeth Holden announces her intention to step down from the Board at the 2017 AGM Charles Philipps permanent appointment as Senior Independent Director is approved September Nomination Committee The Committee receive an update from Sally Learoyd, Head of HR on senior management capacity and skills, property team restructuring, resourcing, talent development and a summary of the results of the 2017 Employee Engagement Survey The Committee agree the experience and expertise sought of the November newNon-Executive Director and agree the shortlist Board meeting Martin Scicluna provides the Board with an update on progress of the December interviews for the new Non-Executive Director Board meeting The Board approve the revised shortlist of candidates for the new Non-Executive Director 2018 January Nomination Committee Martin Scicluna provides the Committee with an update on progress ofthe interviews for the new Non-Executive Director The Committee receive an update from Sally Learoyd, Head of HR, onthe property team restructuring, Senior Management promotions March and talent development initiatives The Committee consider the personal development plans of the Nomination Committee Non-Board members of the Executive Committee and the The Committee discuss the Board evaluation recommendations from CompanySecretary 2017 18 and follow up on recommendations from 2016 17 Board meeting The Committee review the Committee memberships and training undertaken by the Board during the year and propose that Charles The Board considers the 2017 18 Board evaluation Philipps lead the Committee in considering any succession planning for the Chairman role The Committee agree that Alison Rose be recommended to the Board April for appointment and to serve on all three Board Committees Board meeting Board approval is received for the appointment of Alison Rose The Board and Committee memberships are approved May Nomination Committee The Committee consider the personal development plans of the Executive Directors Governance
