98 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Accountability Together, the Audit Committee and the Board are The risks and associated controls including business risks, responsible for ensuring the Group has an effective internal financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues control and risk management system and that the Annual and policy, and changes in the regulatory environment Report provides a fair reflection of the Groups activities are reviewed, formalised and, if appropriate, updated during the year.
As part of its review, the Audit Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness Internal controls and ongoing riskmanagement of the Groups system of internal control.
A review is also carried out as to how the controls and reporting procedures The Board recognises that it is responsible for maintaining have operated during the year.
Once complete, the Audit and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and, Committees review of the Groups risks and internal at least annually, reviewing its effectiveness.
controls is considered by the full Board.
Key risks to the Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not business, how they have changed during the year and the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, processes in place to manage those risks are described in as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk more detail on pages 72 to 81. offailure to achieve business objectives.
Fair, balanced and understandable a matter There are ongoing processes and procedures for forthe whole Board identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group.
These processes and procedures The Directors statement on fair, balanced and were in place throughout the year under review and up to understandable is made on page 140.
When considering the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord whether the 2018 Annual Report and financial statements with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Business Reporting.
Groups position, performance, business model and strategy, the Board takes into account the following: Key features of our system of internal control include: the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and a comprehensive system of financial reporting and agree on the overall messages and tone of the Annual business planning: Report at an early stage: a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board, individual sections of the Annual Report and financial revisited by the Board at least annually: statements are drafted by appropriate Senior an organisational structure with clearly defined levels Management, with regular review meetings to ensure ofauthority and division of responsibilities: consistency of the document as a whole: formal documentation procedures: detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the the close involvement of the Executive Directors Annual Report and financial statements are undertaken in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including bythe Executive Directors: regular meetings with Senior Management to review a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and all operational aspects of the business and risk the external auditor on a timely basis to allow sufficient management systems: consideration and is discussed with the Finance Director Board review of Group strategy including forecasts and Senior Management prior to consideration by the of the Groups future performance and progress on Board: and the Groups development projects at each scheduled the Finance Director, in his May Board paper, includes Board meeting: a checklist of areas that the Board should take into formal sign-off on the Groups Ethics and Whistleblowing consideration including successes and challenges policies by all employees annually: and over the year and looking ahead when reviewing the review by the Audit Committee of Internal Audits reports fairness, consistency and balance of the final draft of the Annual Report and financial statements, including Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review whether the Board considers that there are any omissions of the framework of the Groups risks and how they are in information.
managed through operational management procedures The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and and ongoing Board review and oversight of key controls.
risk management systems and the independence and The Groups system of internal controls involves the effectiveness of the auditor.
identification of property and financial market risks which may impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 99 Our process Audit Committee and advisors The Audit Committee Terms of Reference are available on the Audit Committee members and attendance by others Company website at: www.
co. uk about-us governance Chairman 4 meetings The Board believes that it is useful to have all of the Nick Hampton independent Non-Executive Directors serve on the Audit Members Committee as it provides a forum to discuss and challenge Wendy Becker the Groups portfolio valuation with the external auditor 1 Elizabeth Holden 1 1 which is a fundamental aspect of the business.
2 Richard Mully At the beginning of the year, the Committee comprised of Charles Philipps independent directors Nick Hampton as Chairman, Wendy Jonathan Short Becker, Richard Mully, Charles Philipps, Jonathan Short and In attendance Elizabeth Holden.
Elizabeth Holden retired from the Board at Martin Scicluna 2 2 the July 2017 AGM and Alison Rose will become a member Toby Courtauld of the Committee on 1 September 2018.
The biographies Nick Sanderson of the Non-Executive Directors are on pages 64 and 65 with Charles Philipps and Nick Hampton, in particular, having Meetings attended Part attendance at meetings recent and relevant financial experience, which, combined 1.
with Richard Mully and Jonathan Shorts extensive property 2.
Whilst unable to attend two meetings due to prior commitments, experience, ensures the Committee, as a whole, has Richard Mully provided his thoughts to the Chair in advance of competence relevant to thereal estate sector.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for review of the Our approach Groups financial external reporting, including its accounting The key objectives for the Audit Committee are to policies.
In respect of the Groups half-year and year-end review and report to the Board and shareholders on results, this will include discussions with the Groups external the Groups financial reporting, internal control and valuers, CBRE, on the valuation process and conditions risk management systems, and the independence in Londons real estate markets and auditor, Deloitte LLP andeffectiveness of the auditor.
Deloitte on any accounting or audit matters.
The Audit Committee also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, internal control and risk management systems and internal audit function, and is responsible for the selection and review of the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by certain Executive Directors and senior managers, by invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings reviewing the half-year and year-end results.
By invitation, in addition to the meetings to consider the half-year and year-end results, Nick Sanderson as Finance Director attends the half-year and year-end planning meetings.
In May 2017, Toby Courtauld together with Nick Sanderson also attended the year-end Audit Committee meeting with the valuers and external auditor to provide his view on the valuation and financial results.
The Committee meets four times a year, with the meetings aligned with our financial reporting timetable.
The effectiveness of the performance of the Committee isconsidered as part of the Board evaluation process.
Governance 100 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Valuation of the portfolio, accounting This year, in addition to our oversight of the financial considerations and key areas of judgement reporting process, we The most significant financial judgement was again appointed an internal audit GPEs property valuation as it is central to the function to aid us in the Groups performance and net asset value, and is inherently monitoring of the effectiveness subjective.
A key responsibility of the Committee is to of internal controls and satisfy ourselves that the valuation process in relation riskmanagement.
to the Groups property portfolio has been carried out Nick Hampton appropriately.
Following the comprehensive process as Chairman of the Audit Committee outlined in more detail on page 102, as a Committee we aresatisfied that the valuation process is sufficiently robust.
Dear fellow shareholder During the year, the Audit Committee also considered a number of items that could have an impact on the On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present Groups financial statements, including: my report as Chairman of the Committee for the year ended 31 March 2018. a review of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers to understand As outlined on page 99, the Committee meets four times how these new accounting standards will affect the a year to: Groups 31 March 2019 financial statements.
The Audit plan the external audit: Committee concluded the impact of the new statements would be immaterial and reviewed the disclosure required agree the internal audit plan: for the 31 March 2018 accounts: identify key accounting and areas of judgement as early a review of the accounting for the Groups liability as possible: management activities, including the early redemption review reports from the external and internal auditors ofthe Groups debenture and private placement notes: and valuers: a review of the accounting for the Groups special dividend and capital return via a B share scheme, including the consider how risks and internal controls have been associated share consolidations: managed in the preceding six months in respect ofthehalf-year and year-end results: current year and forecast compliance with the REIT tests: and the Financial Reporting Council FRC s letter on its review monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and of the 2017 financial statements and the results of its Audit consider any significant judgements by management: and Quality Review Team AQRT review.
review the independence and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
Accounting and key areas of judgement Significant matter Action taken Valuation of the The Audit Committee, together with Martin Scicluna, meet with the valuers along with Groups portfolio the external auditor in November and May to discuss the valuation included within the The valuation of the Groups half-year and year-end financial statements.
This review includes the valuation process property portfolio is a key undertaken, changes in market conditions, recent transactions in the market and how determinant of the Groups these have impacted upon GPEs valuation, valuation movements on individual buildings net asset value as well as and the valuers expectations in relation to future rental growth and yield movement.
indirectly impacting executive The Committee asks the valuers to highlight significant judgements or disagreements and employee remuneration.
with management during the valuation process.
With the continued The valuation is conducted uncertainty in relation to the UKs exit from the European Union, the Committee externally by independent also considered the extent to which this wasimpacting the property investment and valuers, however, the nature occupational market in relation to both liquidity and activity.
of the valuation estimates is The external auditor, Deloitte, using its real estate experts separately meet the valuers inherently subjective due to andprovide the Audit Committee with a summary of their work as part of their report the assumptions made on onthe half-year and year-end results.
market comparable yields, As a result of these reviews, the Committee concluded that the valuation had been carried estimated rental values, out appropriately and independently and was suitable for inclusion in the Groups accounts.
void periods and costs tocomplete.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 101 Financial Reporting Council FRC review Our anti-bribery and corruption During the year, the Group received a letter from the andWhistleblowing policies Financial Reporting Council concerning its review of the Each year as part of the year-end planning meeting, Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended the Committee considers the Groups Ethics and 31 March 2017.
As a result of the review, the cash flow Whistleblowing policies, both of which address the statement for the year ended 31 March 2017 has been reCompanys policies on bribery.
The Board has a zero presented to classify funds to joint ventures of 33.6 million tolerance for bribery and corruption of any sort.
as investing rather than financing activities.
There is no Annually, all employees are required to confirm their impact on the income statement or net assets as a result compliance with the Groups anti-bribery and corruption of this re-presentation.
In addition, we have provided policies as outlined on page 89 and any non-compliance additional disclosure with regard to the early redemption is escalated to the Committee as appropriate.
No matters of the Groups 2019 and 2022 private placement notes, were escalated to the Committee in the year.
Any matters reported under the whistleblowing policy The FRC review was based on the Annual Report and are investigated by the Company Secretary or Senior Accounts and did not benefit from detailed knowledge Independent Director.
During the year, there were no of the business or an understanding of the underlying whistleblowing incidents reported.
It was, however, conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant In November 2017, our Director of Corporate Finance legal and accounting framework.
alsoreported to the Committee on the Groups approach totheCriminal Finances Act 2017.
Fair, balanced and understandable Internal audit Whether the 2018 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable is considered I reported last year that we had appointed Jill Emney, to be a matter for the whole Board and the Audit PwCs Risk Assurance partner, as Head of Internal Committees role is covered on page 98.
An Internal Audit Charter governs its remit and provides the framework of the conduct of the Internal Viability statement Audit function.
In order to determine our inaugural The Committee reviewed managements work on assessing internal audit programme for 2017 18, PwC reviewed the potential risks to the business and the appropriateness GPEs risk management framework and concluded that, of the Companys choice of a three-year assessment in its first year, the Internal Audit team should review the period.
Following this review, the Committee was satisfied Groups financial controls, GPEs procurement processes that management has conducted a robust assessment and general IT controls, including follow up of actions and recommended to the Board that it could approve identified in Deloittes 2017 IT management letter.
andmakethe viability statement on page 71.
Internal Audits overallreport findings on these three areas, presented to the Committee at the February 2018 meeting, Internal controls and risk management were rated low risk.
Feedback from those GPE employees involved in the Internal Audit process was that the process The Audit Committees role in supporting the worked well.
The Committee believes that the process Boards oversight and review of the Groups principal risks, fordetermining the internal audit programme is appropriate internal controls and risk management processes is covered and effective with scope for the Committee toreact on pages 68, 69 and 98. toevents, new information and situations which come tolightduring the year and include them as necessary.
Tax Strategy In May 2017, the Committee also reviewed the Groups tax strategy for disclosure on the website at www.
co. uk about-us governance which was then approved by the Board.
Governance 102 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued AQRT review Committee effectiveness During the year, an FRC Audit Quality Review Team AQRT I believe that the quality of discussion and level of challenge reviewed Deloittes audit of GPEs financial statements for by the Committee with management, the internal and the year ended 31 March 2017.
On completion of the review, external audit teams and the valuer, together with the I received a copy of the AQRTs report and a summary timeliness and quality of papers received by the Committee, ofthe findings, together with the letter from the FRC, ensures the Committee is able to perform its role effectively.
werediscussed at the February 2018 planning meeting.
However, the formal review of the Committees effectiveness is covered under the Board evaluation process and I am Auditor reappointment pleased that the review confirmed that the Committee isworking well.
Following a tender process, Deloitte has been the Groups auditor since 2003.
It is a requirement that the Nick Hampton audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 May 2018 audits is rotated every five years and Richard Muschamp took responsibility as lead audit partner for the audit inJune 2013.
In light of the need for audit partner rotation for the financial year ending 31 March 2019, during 2017 we approved the appointment of Judith Tacon as the newaudit partner, who has significant experience in publiccompany real estate.
As part of Judiths induction, she attended the planning, half-year and year-end results AuditCommittee meetings.
Based on the Committees recommendation, the Board is proposing that Deloitte be reappointed at this years AGM.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 103 Overall, the Committee agreed that the audit process The external audit and review ofitseffectiveness hadbeen effective and efficient.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditor, their remuneration The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the for audit and non-audit work, and their effectiveness, Groups management during the external audit process independence and objectivity and discusses the nature, in respect of the timely identification and resolution of scope and results of the audit with the external auditor.
areas of accounting judgement, with input from the auditor As part of the review of the effectiveness of the external and the Audit Committee as appropriate, as well as the audit, a formal evaluation incorporating views from the timely provision of the draft results to Deloitte and the Audit Committee and relevant members of management Committee for review.
In addition, feedback was sought isconsidered by the Committee.
Feedback from the review from the auditor on the conduct of members of the finance undertaken in September 2017 was provided to Deloitte team during the audit process which confirmed that there aspart of the annual planning meeting.
had been a good level of communication and interaction between the teams.
Areas covered by the review included: As part of the consideration of audit quality for the audit the calibre of the external audit firm, Deloitte including for the year ended 31 March 2018, the importance of staff reputation, coverage and industry presence: continuity within the Deloitte GPE audit team and, looking quality controls including review processes, partner forwards, an effective hand over process to the new oversight, reports on Deloitte generally from the Audit Audit Partner for the 2019 audit was highlighted by both Quality Review Team AQRT and regulators, and use management and the Committee.
of specialists: Under the Companys interpretation of the transitional the audit team covering quality of individuals, arrangements for mandatory audit rotation, the Company knowledge, resources, partner involvement, team rotation, will be required to change auditor for the financial year the audit scope including planning and execution, scope ended 31 March 2024 and plans to complete a competitive adequacy and specialist areas: tender process by this time.
Notwithstanding these audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: requirements and current plans, the Committee considers audit communications and effectiveness planning, the need to tender the audit annually depending on the new developments regulations, approach to critical auditors performance, taking into account the best interests accounting policies, issues and risks, quality of of shareholders.
processes, timely resolution of issues, freedom of Having undertaken its review for this year, in the opinion communication with the Audit Committee and feedback of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the external on management performance: auditor is effective and the Committee remains satisfied governance and independence internal governance with their independence and effectiveness.
The Committee arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit has, therefore, recommended to the Board that Deloitte Committee, integrity of the audit team, Audit Committee be reappointed as auditor at the 2018 Annual General confidence in the audit team and transparency: Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations restricting ethical standards including conflicts of interest, theCompanys choice of external auditor.
non-audit work and partner rotation: and The Company has complied during the year ended potential impairment of independence by non-audit 31 March 2018, and up to the date of this report, with fee income.
the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Governance 104 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Accountability continued Non-audit services Auditor and non-audit fees The auditor is responsible for the annual statutory audit 2018 2017 2016 000s 000s 000s andother services which the Audit Committee believe Audit fees 222 204 210 theyare best placed to undertake due to their position Non-audit fees including the interim review 68 83 72 asauditor under the Groups policy for provision of Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 32% 41% 34% non-audit services by the external auditor available from Audit fees of joint ventures our share 28 28 28 the Companys website at www.
In addition to ensuring compliance with the Groups policy As the purpose of this policy is to ensure auditor in respect of non-audit services, the Audit Committee independence and objectivity is maintained, under the also receives confirmation from Deloitte that it remains policy, prior approval is required by the Audit Committee independent and has maintained internal safeguards for any non-statutory assignments over 50,000, or where toensure its objectivity.
such an assignment would take the cumulative total of Internal audit non-audit fees paid to the external auditor over 50% of that years audit fees.
The appointment of Deloitte to undertake An Internal Audit Charter approved by the Board governs any non-audit services also requires the prior approval the Internal Audit remit and provides the framework for oftheFinance Director and, importantly, he is required to the conduct of the Internal Audit function.
During the year, consider whether Deloitte are the most suitable supplier.
Internal audit undertook reviews of the Groups financial controls, GPEs procurement controls and general During the year, activities undertaken by the auditor ITcontrols including follow up of actions identified fortheGroup outside of the main audit included: inDeloittes 2017 ITmanagement letter.
reporting on the income cover in connection with the The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit debenture trust deed compliance certificate: and plan annually for a rolling three-year period which is closely assurance on achievement against 2017 18 sustainability aligned to the management and the Committees review objectives and targets and energy consumption data.
ofthe Groups risk management framework.
The Committee Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees Chairman also meets with the Head of Internal Audit for the year are disclosed on page 151.
The Groups audit separately to the Committee to discuss planned activities fees are presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit and the results of its reviews.
Committee at the March planning meeting.
In addition, As PwC is engaged by the Group to provide tax compliance audit and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in respect of joint advice and other advisory services, before PwC is appointed ventures totalled 28,000 GPE share 2017: 28,000 and to any advisory role, consideration is given as to any nil 2017: nil respectively.
The non-audit fees for the year potential conflict with Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee ended 31 March 2018 as a percentage of the three-year also specifically considers their independence in reviewing average audit fee as set out below is 32.1%.
and approving the Internal Audit plan annually to ensure that there are no conflicts in PwC undertaking the internal audit work proposed.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 105 What we did in relation to the financial year end 31 March 2018 2017 September Internal audit Met with Jill Emney, Head of Internal Audit to review PwCs internal audit report on GPEs financial controls Annual planning meeting November Met with the external auditor Deloitte to review: Deloittes 2017 sustainability management letter Review of Deloittes 2017 IT management letter the effectiveness and independence of the auditor see pages Review of half-year results 103and 104 significant accounting and key areas of judgement see page100 Met with CBRE to consider the September 2017 valuation Deloittes 2018 Audit Plan Met with Deloitte to review: their review of the September 2017 valuation and the half-year results announcement significant accounting and key areas of judgement including going concern see page 100 Group tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance the principal risks, monitoring of internal controls and risk management processes the half-year results announcement 2018 March Internal audit Met with Jill Emney, Head of Internal Audit to review PwCs internal audit report on GPEs: procurement process: IT general controls including progress against agreed management actions from Deloittes IT management letter: and the 2018 19 internal audit plan was agreed Year-end planning update May Met with Deloitte, to consider approve: Review of year-end results significant accounting and key areas of judgement see page 100 Met with CBRE to consider the March 2018 valuation see pages the accounting for the Groups early redemption of the debenture 56and 57 the accounting for the capital return via B share scheme and Met with Deloitte to review: associated share consolidation Deloittes review of the March 2018 valuation see pages 56 and 57 the results of the AQRT review of Deloittes audit of GPEs 2017 financial statements significant accounting and key areas of judgement including going concern see page 100 the letter from the FRC the FRCs review of our 2017 financial statements the 2017 18 Audit Plan update Group tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance the 2018 audit fee see page 104 the principal risks, monitoring of internal controls and risk new accounting standards coming into force over the next few years management processes see pages 70 to 81 including IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 the Annual Report results announcement Other matters the Committees effectiveness Received a corporate governance update from Deloitte relationship between the auditor and GPE management with Review of GPEs Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy feedback provided by Deloitte without management present see page101 audit retendering and reappointment of the auditor see pages Review of actions undertaken in relation to GDPR 102and 103 Governance
