10 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 H ow we reposition properties Improving real estate is highly complex, with each building requiring a bespoke business plan to deliver a successful outcome.
The flow chart below illustrates the process we adopt to ensure those business plans maximisereturns, delivering sustainable, market appropriate buildings.
Align with professional Planning PreRisk design team refinement applications Return 1 2 3 4 Design and Financial Design Planning feasibility appraisal development consent Public consultation Relationships, Constraints contacts and and opportunities experience Design and feasibility Financial appraisal Design development Planning consent At the outset we conduct a If the feasibility assessment If a potential redevelopment Most of our repositioning feasibility study to understand supports the case for is both feasible and financially activities require planning what is possible for the existing development, we will conduct viable, we will further develop consent.
The effective building or site.
This will assess: afinancial appraisal to ensure the design to enable us to navigation of the planning the forecast prospective returns achieve planning consent.
process by our in-house the local market to are sufficient to proceed.
teamis crucial to the success understand occupier Our specialist in-house ofany redevelopment.
demand: Our required returns will development team works differdepending on the risk with an extensive network Our relationships with the our ability to add new profile of the proposed project.
ofselected partners, from over local planning authorities space to the site: We will be seeking a premium 50disciplines.
Together with are key to delivering on neighbourly matters: over our cost of capital, our in-house Design Review our business plans.
We are local planning requirements settocompensate for the Panel, they ensure the open, transparent and nonand the relative merits risk involved, with speculative building design meets market adversarial in our approach.
of a refurbishment or full development having the specifications, maximises We engage pro-actively in scale development: highest required return.
ourreturns and will attract pre-application consultations proposed sustainability ourtarget occupiers.
with key stakeholders and rating: and will adjust ourproposals, as S ee our Cityside House case study the ability to deliver onpages 20 and 21 appropriate, to take account new space within the ofcomments received.
confines of the local S ee Oxford House, W1 onpage 39 planning environment.
Risks S ee more risk onpages 68 to 81 Inappropriate location Incorrect reading Failure to react to evolving Failure to gain viable Incorrect cost estimation Building being inappropriate Incorrect reading ofproperty cycle workplace needs planning consents on to occupier demand oftheproperty cycle Failure to reach agreement Construction cost inflation atimely basis withadjoining owners on Inappropriate level of Ineffective marketing Contractor availability acceptable terms development undertaken to prospective occupiers andinsolvency risk asapercentage of the Quality and benchmarks portfolio ofthecompleted buildings Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 11 7 5 6 Divestment MAXIMISE Delivery Leasing Investment RETURNS management In conjunction Divestment Investment Delivery Leasing management Construction of any building Often a developments Once fide-risked through leasing in central London is highly leasing and delivery go hand and successful construction, complex.
Our leasing team we will assess the buildings construction to a network will be involved at the design forecast performance.
ofhighly regarded contractor development stage to ensure We forecast each occupiers companies but, given the risks the building is appropriate future rental cash flows and, involved, we closely manage to our target occupiers to using our own assumptions for the process using our in-house maximise its letting prospects.
future movements in rents and project managers.
We will seek to let the yields, estimate the propertys Our team will utilise the buildingearly in the delivery future growth.
If its prospective appropriate procurement process.
Marketing materials, returns do not meet our required method for the scheme to often incorporating an oninvestment hurdles, taking into optimise the balance between site marketing suite, will be account both our cost of capital price certainty and risk.
prepared during delivery, with and the risks, the completed the formal pre-letting campaign project maybe sold tocrystallise Once on site, we liaise with typically commencing up to our returns.
themain contractor to manage 24 months prior to completion.
S ee our 30 Broadwick Street the delivery of the building, case study onpages 18 and 19 S ee our 160 Old Street case study to time and budget, and help onpages 22 and 23 commission the building once complete.
Risks S ee more risk onpages 68 to 81 Inappropriate location Incorrect reading Failure to react to evolving Failure to gain viable Incorrect cost estimation Building being inappropriate Incorrect reading ofproperty cycle workplace needs planning consents on to occupier demand oftheproperty cycle Failure to reach agreement Construction cost inflation atimely basis withadjoining owners on Inappropriate level of Ineffective marketing Contractor availability acceptable terms development undertaken to prospective occupiers andinsolvency risk asapercentage of the Quality and benchmarks portfolio ofthecompleted buildings S St trat rateg egiic c R Re epor port t O Ove verrvviie ew w
