Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 135 Report of the directors Strategic Report Directors shareholdings The Groups Strategic Report on pages 1 to 81 includes the At 31 March At 31 March 2018 2017 Companys business model and strategy, principal risks and Number Number uncertainties facing the Group and how these are managed 1 1 of shares of shares and mitigated, an indication of likely future developments in Martin Scicluna 7,072 8,636 the Company and details of important events since the year Toby Courtauld 1,339,944 1,588,892 ended 31 March 2018.
Nick Sanderson 241,226 263,357 Wendy Becker 8,278 10,000 The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information Nick Hampton 1,293 to the members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, Richard Mully 16,379 20,000 its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept Charles Philipps 4,095 5,000 or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Jonathan Short 11,019 13,455 document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Includes shares held by the Executive Directors in the Groups 2010 Share The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking Incentive Plan.
statements with respect to the operations, performance All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these are beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
No director sold statements involve uncertainty since future events and shares during the year, although the share consolidations circumstances can cause results and developments to differ associated with the special dividend and B-share scheme from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reduced the number of shares held by each director.
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of There have been no changes in the shareholdings of any preparation of this Annual Report.
Nothing in this Annual director in office as at 31 March 2018 between 1 April Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
2018 and 22 May 2018 apart from shares bought or received by the Executive Directors participating in the Results and dividends for the year Companys Share Incentive Plan as detailed in the Directors The Group results for the year are set out on pages 142 to remuneration report on page 120.
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share 2017: 3.7 interest in or contract with the Company or any subsidiary pence was paid on 2 January 2018, and the directors undertaking other than service contracts during the year.
propose to pay a final dividend of 7.3 pence per share on 9 July 2018 to shareholders on the register of members as Directors indemnities and insurance at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
This makes a total On 14 September 2007, an indemnity was given by the of 11.3 pence per share 2017: 10.1 pence for the year ended Company to the directors in terms which comply with 31 March 2018.
Company law and remains in force at the date of this Report.
Directors The Company maintains directors and officers liability Biographical details of the current directors of the Company insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both are shown on pages 64 and 65.
Elizabeth Holden also ofwhich are reviewed annually.
served as a director during the year until her retirement from Corporate governance statement the Board on 6 July 2017.
The information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate The Companys Articles of Association require that governance statement can be found in this Report of a director shall retire from office if he or she has been the directors and on pages 82 to 134, all of which are appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
or if it is the third Annual General Meeting following that at which he was elected or last re-elected.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the directors will all retire and will offer themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting with the exception of Jonathan Short who is retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Alison Rose has been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting and is standing for election by shareholders for the first time.
The Board believes that it will benefit from Alison Roses skills and experience as described in her biography on page 64 and, therefore, recommends her election as a Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman has confirmed, following the Board effectiveness evaluation process, thatall of the directors standing for re-election continue to be effective and to demonstrate their commitment andindependence in their roles.
Governance 136 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Report of the directors continued There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the Financial instruments and disclosures under holding of the ordinary shares.
None of the shares carries Listing Rule 9.8.
4 any special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are There are no known arrangements under which financial set out in notes 1 and 17 forming part of the Group financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the statements on page 149 and pages 162 to 165, which are shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
The Great Portland Estates plc Notes 1 and 7 on pages 149 and 152 also include details of LTIP Employee Share Trust the Trust is an employees interest capitalised by the Group.
share scheme which holds ordinary shares in the Company on trust for the benefit of employees within the Group.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and The Trustee of the Trust has the power to exercise all the policies are included in the Risk management overview on rights and powers including rights with regard to control of pages 68 to 81, in Our capital discipline on pages 47 and 48 the Company incidental to, and to generally act in relation and in Our financial results on pages 44 to 46. to, the ordinary shares subject to the Trust in such manner Information on the waiver of dividends is included below as the Trustee in its absolute discretion thinks fit as if it were inShare capital and control.
absolutely entitled to those ordinary shares.
The Trustee has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares held in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement the Company.
The Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement is As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with included in the Sustainability section within the Strategic significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other Report on page 59. than those noted above.
Significant shareholdings The powers of the directors are contained in the As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified, in Companys Articles of Association.
These include powers, accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and Rules, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: buy-back of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority being given to the directors by the shareholders Number of Nature of in a general meeting.
1 1 1 shares % holding BlackRock Inc 32,146,464 9.83 Indirect The rules about the appointment and replacement of Norges Bank Investment directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Management 31,188,350 9.07 Direct Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be Brookfield Investment approved by the shareholders in accordance with legislation Management Inc 17,153,100 5.25 Indirect in force from time to time.
APG Asset Management 10,509,357 3.22 Direct Change of control 1.
As at date of notification.
The Company has a number of unsecured borrowing In the period from 31 March 2018 to 22 May 2018, no further facilities provided by various lenders.
These facilities notifications were received.
Information provided to the generally include provisions that may require any Company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change service and on the Companys website.
of control of the Company.
The Companys 2010 LTIP and Executive Annual Bonus Plan contain provisions relating to Share capital and control the vesting of awards in the event of a change of control.
Following the 25 for 29 share consolidation of the Companys ordinary share capital approved by shareholders Going concern on 26 March 2018 accompanying the return of capital and The Groups business activities, together with the factors intended to maintain the comparability of the Groups share affecting its performance, position and future development price and per share metrics on 31 March 2018, there were are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 81.
5 281,663,675 ordinary shares of 15 pence in issue.
19 Details of the finances of the Group, including its strong liquidity position, attractively priced borrowing facilities and favourable debt maturity profile are set out in our financial results on pages 44 to 46 and in notes 16 and 17 of the accounts on pages 161 to 165.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 137 The directors have reviewed the current and projected Remuneration report financial position of the Group, making reasonable Resolution 3 will seek approval of the directors assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of remuneration report excluding the remuneration policy for the review, the directors have considered the Groups cash the year ended 31 March 2018 as set out on pages 108 to balances, its capital commitments, its debt maturity profile, 123.
This vote is advisory, and the directors entitlement to including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of remuneration is not conditional on it.
On the basis of this review, and after making No changes are proposed to the directors remuneration due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation policy approved at the Annual General Meeting on that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 6 July 2017. to continue in operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial Authority to allot shares and grant rights statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
At the General Meeting held on 26 March 2018 to approve the share consolidation, shareholders authorised the Viability statement directors, under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares without the prior consent of The Companys Viability statement is on page 71. shareholders for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Statement as to disclosure of information Annual General Meeting to be held in 2018 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2018.
Resolution 14 will seek to renew this totheauditor authority and to authorise the directors under section 551 So far as the directors who held office at the date of of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each for a period expiring no later than 1 October 2019. director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any Paragraph a i of Resolution 14 will allow the directors to relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and 14,330,256 representing approximately one-third 33.3% of should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. as at 22 May 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
In accordance with institutional Auditor guidelines issued by The Investment Association, paragraph a ii of Resolution 14 will allow directors to allot, including A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 14, further of the Companys ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a Rights Issue Annual General Meeting to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount The Notice of Meeting on pages 188 and 189 sets out the of 28,660,512, representing approximately two-thirds resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 66.6% of the Companys existing issued share capital and and gives details of the voting record date and proxy calculated as at 22 May 2018 being the latest practicable appointment deadline for that meeting.
Resolutions 1 date prior to publication of this Report.
The directors have to13 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 14 to 18 no present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolutions 15 to 18 will be proposed if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to asspecial resolutions.
follow best practice as regards its use as recommended by TheInvestment Association.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution torenew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2019.
Governance 138 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Report of the directors continued The authority granted by this resolution would be in General authority to disapply pre-emption rights addition to the general authority to disapply pre-emption At the General Meeting held on 26 March 2018, a special rights under Resolution 15.
The maximum nominal resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the value of equity securities which could be allotted if both Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot authorities were used would be 4,299,076, which represents equity securities for cash without first being required to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 15 Company as at 22 May 2018 being the latest practicable will seek to renew this authority, which is set to expire date prior to publication of this Report.
at the Annual General Meeting, in line with the latest institutional guidelines.
Authority to purchase own shares If approved, the resolution will authorise the directors, in A special resolution was also passed at the General accordance with the Articles of Association, to issue shares Meeting held on 26 March 2018 enabling the Company in connection with a Rights Issue or other pre-emptive offer to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolution 17 and otherwise to issue shares for cash including the sale will seek to renew this authority.
The maximum number of for cash on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in ordinary shares to which the authority relates is 42,221,384. treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,149,538, This represents 14.99% of the share capital of the Company which represents approximately 5% of the issued share in issue as at 22 May 2018.
The directors intend only to capital of the Company as at 22 May 2018 being the latest exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
If Resolution 17 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the The directors do not intend to issue, under a general option of holding as treasury shares any of its own shares authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights, more than 7.5% that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this ofthe issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without treasury shares or use them to satisfy share awards under prior consultation with shareholders.
employee share schemes, providing the Company with Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution to additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2019. and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority Additional authority to disapply pre-emption rights would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased Resolution 16 requests further shareholder approval, by by the Company to hold as treasury shares.
way of a separate special resolution in line with the best The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the practice guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group, for the 5 nominal value of 15 pence per share and not more than 19 directors to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market cash without first being required to offer such securities to quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived existing shareholders.
The proposed resolution will expire from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the close of five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary business on 1 October 2019. shares are purchased and an amount equal to the higher The authority granted by this resolution, if passed: of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an a will be limited to the allotment of equity securities ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase andsale of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate iscarried out.
nominal value of 2,149,538, which represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the At 22 May 2018, there were 150 million 1% convertible Company as at 22 May 2018 being the latest practicable bonds due 2018 in issue which, if fully converted, would date prior to publication of this Report : and result in the issue of a maximum of 20,809,633 ordinary shares based on the conversion price of 720.82 pence b will only be used in connection with an acquisition per share.
orother capital investment, including development and or refurbishment expenditure, which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 139 Under the terms and conditions of the convertible bonds, Notice of general meetings the conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 occurrence of certain corporate events and in such for general meetings of the Company is 21 clear days, circumstances the maximum number of ordinary shares unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which to be issued upon full conversion of the bonds may be cannot however be less than 14 clear days Annual General higher than the amount specified above.
Any of the bonds Meetings must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
can be converted, at the Companys election, into a cash At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders alternative amount.
authorised the calling of general meetings other than an If the outstanding bonds were fully converted, they would Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days represent 7.4% of the issued share capital as at 22 May 2018. notice and Resolution 18 seeks to renew this authority.
If the authorities to purchase shares existing and being The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be sought were exercised in full, that percentage would be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, 10.5% of the share capital.
when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
As at 22 May 2018, employee share awards were Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on outstanding for over 3,018,800 ordinary shares which, if less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make vested in full using newly issued shares, would represent a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders 1.1% of the issued share capital of the Company as at that forthat meeting.
If the authority for the Company to purchase its own The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used shares existing and being sought were used in full, that where, taking into account the circumstances and noting percentage would increase to 1.5%.
As at close of business the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance on 22 May 2018, there were no outstanding warrants to Code, the directors consider this appropriate in relation subscribe for equity shares in the Company.
tothe business to be considered at the meeting and in the There were no purchases of shares by the Company during interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The number of shares which may be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the 26 March Recommendation 2018 General Meeting was 41,243,625.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to At 22 May 2018, the Company held no shares in treasury.
the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special resolution to of them and unanimously recommends that you doso renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM as well.
or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2019.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary Great Portland Estates plc Company number: 596137 23 May 2018 Governance
