06 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Why London?
Toby Courtauld explains why Great Portland Estates is 100% focused on the central London property market.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 07 Despite the current macro-economic and political uncertainty, we remain confident that London willremain the powerhouse of the UKeconomy andretain its status as a truly global city.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive So, why London?
Why do you have a preference How are London offices for the West End?
Generating around 23% of UK GDP, London has the largest economy of With more than 200 million visits Modern occupiers expect more from any city in Europe and is one of the a year, the West End provides a unique their real estate, they are demanding worlds leading commercial, creative and diverse mix of commercial, increasingly flexible workplaces offering and financial centres.
Despite the retail, residential, cultural and tourist a greater, more flexible mix of uses ongoing opaque macro-economic attractions, drawing people and from traditional formal office space to outlook following the EU referendum businesses from around the world.
more informal communal and social result, London is still forecast to It is also home to a broad range of areas.
Moreover, as the competition grow.
By 2030, Londons population occupiers, and, as a result, is not for talent has increased, staff wellbeing is expected to increase to around relianton any one dominant sector.
has moved further up occupiers 10.0 million, up from 8.8 million today.
agendas as positive, healthy working Furthermore, the barriers to developing Its combination of a strong legal system, environments are used to help attract buildings in the West End are high.
time zone advantages, international and retain staff.
Around 70% of the core West End is in connectivity and a welcoming attitude a conservation area and the planning Whilst we have had another very to businesses from around the world environment is continuing to tighten.
successful leasing year, including has resulted in London retaining its Successfully navigating these barriers 20.2 million of new annual rent secured position as the worlds top financial to deliver efficient and sustainable on ten year or more lease terms, some centre in the Z Yen Global Financial properties that meet the needs of occupiers are seeking greater flexibility Centres Index.
modern occupiers, remains critical in their leases.
Although the serviced to our ability to create value over office sector has always been popular How would you describe thelonger term.
with smaller businesses, it is becoming Londons real estate market?
See our portfolio on page 54 more common for some larger Central London has one of the corporate occupiers to have an element worlds largest commercial real estate of flexible space as part of their overall Do you consider other markets, with more than 444 million space requirements.
sq ft of office and retail property To ensure that we continue to create attracting a deep and diverse mix Although we would not look to invest spaces that meet these evolving needs, of occupiers and property investors, outside London, we recognise that we have promoted James Pellatt to many from overseas.
Global businesses central London itself is growing and the new role of Director of Workplace are attracted to London by its high regeneration, often driven by improved and Innovation.
With around half of the calibre labour pool, with 1.7 million public transport infrastructure, is portfolio in our development pipeline, of Londons workforce employed in creating occupier demand in new one of James responsibilities will be to highly-skilled roles nearly 50% higher locations.
A good example is our ensure that we remain at the forefront than New York, its nearest rival and acquisition during the year of Cityside of these evolving requirements as London being home to 15 top ranked and Challenger House, E1, our first wedesign and build the workplaces universities and business schools, more purchase in Whitechapel.
than any other global city.
Moreover, area set to benefit significantly from London was ranked the worlds second the opening of Crossrail later this year, See our market onpages 31 and 35 most popular tourist destination in 2017. which is already acting as a catalyst for investment and economic growth in the Over the last year, Londons commercial local area.
property markets have remained See our case study on pages 20 to 21 resilient as both investor and occupier demand has been robust for higher quality assets.
See our market section on pages 31 to 35 S St trat rateg egiic c R Re epor port t O Ove verrvviie ew w
