66 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Senior Management Team Left to right: Steven Mew, Janine Cole, James Pellatt, Andrew White, Sally Learoyd, Helen Hare.
Steven Mew BSc Hons, Dip PropInv, MRICS Andrew White BSc Hons, Dip IPF, MRICS Portfolio Director Development Director Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in October 2016 as Portfolio Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in March 2013 as Head Director and a member of the Executive Committee.
Appointed to the Executive Committee in July 2015 asDevelopment Director.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly Director at McKay Securities.
Responsible for driving the performance Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Divisional Director at Kier of the Groups investment portfolio.
Property and previously with BAA Lynton and Development Securities.
Responsible for the total return of the development portfolio including A member of the Groups Executive Committee and a Director of the the successful delivery of all development projects across the Group.
A member of the Groups Executive Committee, the GHS Limited Partnership Operational Committee and a Director of the Great Janine Cole CMIOSH, PIEMA VictoriaPartnership.
Head of Sustainability Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in November 1998 as Health Sally Learoyd MBA, FCIPD and Safety Administrator.
Promoted to Safety, Health and Environmental Head of Human Resources Manager in 2002 and appointed Head of Sustainability in 2011.
Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in 2015 as Head of Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Professional Services HumanResources.
Responsible for sustainability and health and safety management across the Group.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly HR Director for King & Wood Mallesons and previously with Hammerson.
Responsible for human A member of the British Property Federation and EPRA Sustainability resource management and development across the Group.
Helen Hare BSc Hons, MRICS James Pellatt BSc Hons, MRICS Head of Project Management Director of Workplace and Innovation Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in August 2007 as Project Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in March 2011 as Head Manager.
Appointed as Head of Project Management in 2017. ofProjects.
Promoted to Director of Workplace and Innovation in 2017.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Director of Brixton Estates Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Senior Director with and Commercial Manager at Bucknall Austin.
Responsible for setting Tishman Speyer and previously with More London Development procurement strategy and ensuring capital expenditure on all projects andECHarris.
Responsible for overseeing the Groups design forums iscompleted in accordance with individual asset business plans across andworkplace innovation.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 67 Left to right: Robin Matthews, Kirsty Davie, Martin Leighton, Hugh Morgan, DesnaMartin, Marc Wilder, Stephen Burrows.
Robin Matthews MA Hons, MSc, MRICS Desna Martin BCom, FCA Aust, ACIS Investment Director Company Secretary Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in September 2016 as Date joined the Group: Joined the Group as Company Secretary in Investment Director and a member of the Executive Committee.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly Property Director at Moorfield Experience and responsibilities: Formerly an Audit Senior Manager with Group and previously with London & Capital Group and Colliers International.
Responsible for corporate governance across the Group.
Responsible for overseeing the Groups new investment activities.
Company Secretary for all joint venture companies.
A member of the Groups Executive Committee.
Marc Wilder BSc Hons Kirsty Davie MMath, ACA Leasing Director Head of Investment Analysis and Management Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in June 2005 as Leasing Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in February 2013 as Head Manager and appointed Head of Leasing in 2009.
Appointed to the ofInvestment Analysis and Management Information.
Executive Committee in July 2015 as Leasing Director.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly Head of Corporate Experience and responsibilities: Formerly Head of Leasing at Development at Lonrho Plc.
Previously with Deloitte Corporate Finance.
Benchmark plc, and previously with Threadneedle Asset Management Responsible for Group forecasting, management information and and Hemingway Properties Limited.
Responsible for leasing across financial appraisal of investments and developments.
theGroups investment portfolio and development programme.
Martin Leighton LLB, ACA, CTA Director of Corporate Finance Stephen Burrows BA Hons, MA, ACA Director of Financial Reporting and IR Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in January 2003 as Corporate Finance Manager and appointed Head of Corporate Finance in 2011.
Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in September 2003 as Promoted to Director in 2017.
Financial Accountant and appointed Head of Financial Reporting and Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Corporate Finance Investor Relations in 2011.
Assistant Director with Ernst & Young.
Responsible for the day-to-day Experience and responsibilities: Formerly an Audit Manager in Ernst & management of all tax affairs, transaction structuring, raising debt finance Youngs Real Estate Group and previously with the National Audit Office.
and interest rate risk management across the Group.
Responsible for financial reporting, forecasting and investor relations A member of the British Property Federation Tax Committee.
A member of the British Property Federation Technical Accounting Group.
Hugh Morgan BSc Hons, MRICS Director of Investment Management Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in September 2007 as Investment Manager and appointed Head of Investment Management in2010.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Director with Savills andpreviously with Nelson Bakewell.
Responsible for generating andexecuting asset strategies for existing assets within the Groups portfolio including hold sell decisions.
A member of the GHS Limited Partnership Operational Committee and aDirector of the Great Wigmore Partnership.
