106 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Relations with shareholders In total, the directors and senior management had O ur active engagement with 188 formal meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders continued during shareholders from more than 200 institutions during the year and the feedback we the year.
This included participating in nine industry have received has been very conferences, which provide the management team the positive, including winning Best Investor Relations ability to meet a large number of investors on a formal and Programme by a European informal basis, and seven roadshows to meet with investors property company.
in London, the US, the Netherlands and Asia.
Stephen Burrows We were pleased to be recognised in Institutional Director of Financial Reporting andInvestor Relations Investors All Europe Executive Team 2018, being voted #1 Investor Relations Programme inthe European property sector, and receiving top three individual rankings for Communication with our investors is given a high priority.
our Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director of As a result we maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders, Financial Reporting and Investor Relations.
We have also potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts been shortlisted for IR Magazines Award for Best Overall through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
The programme is executed across a number of geographies, reflecting the international nature of our share Investor contact by location register, and through a variety of routes including roadshow United Kingdom 17 meetings, meetings at industry conferences, investor and United States and North America analyst events, property tours and presentations to analysts Rest of Europe 26 and investment banks equity sales teams.
Rest of World Institutional shareholders by geography at 31 March 2018 188 North America and Canada meetings 12% 101 United Kingdom Rest of Europe Rest of World 35% 44 23% Investor contact by method Meeting 3 5 Conference 19 Call 30% Tour Meeting and tour For our top shareholders see page 136 188 We are also committed to providing investors with regular meetings 101 announcements of significant events affecting the Group, 60 including its business activity and financial performance.
These announcements are available on the Groups website at www.
co. uk along with results webcasts, analyst presentations, property videos, press releases and interviews with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, our Head of The Executive Directors and the Director of Financial Sustainability and Director of Financial Reporting and Reporting & Investor Relations are the Companys principal Investor Relations offered to meet with a number of our representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, largest investors to understand their perception of our press and other interested parties, and independent sustainability strategy.
This process will continue into feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to the forthcoming year, as we seek feedback on our new shareholders and analysts is provided to the Non-Executive strategy Creating Sustainable Spaces.
In addition to Directors on a regular basis.
During the year, we consulted this engagement, we believe that it is essential that we with our top shareholders on our proposals in relation to our provide transparent reporting and, therefore, participate new three-year remuneration policy and retaining Jonathan ina number of sustainability indices including: Short on the Board for a further year with a view to his retiring at the 2018 AGM.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 107 The Executive Directors and Corporate Finance Team also have regular dialogue with our debt providers, including What we did in 2017 18 relationship banks, private placement investors, debenture holders and convertible bond holders.
2017 The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Martin Scicluna and Charles Phillips respectively are each available, May as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to Investor roadshow: London communicate with, and answer questions from, private and Equity sales force institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available meetings 1 June before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet Investor roadshows: new directors.
Amsterdam US The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and EPRA Event: Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual EPRA Event Dublin General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the Conferences: July Kempen Amsterdam, resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Morgan Stanley London Annual General Meeting on 5 July 2018 can be found in the Notice of Meeting onpages 188 and 189.
After the Annual General Meeting, the Companys Registrars will count and verify the poll September votes.
The results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be published on our website at Conferences: www.
co. uk investors  agmgm BAML New York, EPRA London Soc Gen London November Investor and analyst event Investor roadshow: London In March 2018, we hosted an investor and analyst event Equity sales force meetings 4 at Oxford House, W1 and the newly completed 55 Wells December Street, W1.
We had eleven presentations from the GPE team Investor roadshow: US to provide a deeper dive into their respective areas of the Conferences: business.
We were also joined by Toby Ogden from Cushman UBS London, HSBC & Wakefield, who provided some insight into occupiers Cape Town decision making processes when selecting new offices, and Equity sales force Simon Allford from Allford Hall Monaghan Morris, who gave meetings 1 an update on changing building design.
Around 80 attendees braved the Beast from the East and feedback from the event has been very positive.
2018 January Conference: JP Morgan Cazenove London Investor roadshow: Amsterdam Equity sales force meetings 1 February James Burrage, Development Manager presenting at the investor Investor roadshow: andanalyst event.
Tokyo Hong Kong March Conferences: Citi US, BAML London Equity sales force meetings 1 Analyst & Investor Event Governance
