68 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk The successful management of risk is critical for How the Board monitors the Groups the Group to deliver its strategic priorities.
Whilst principalrisks theultimate responsibility for risk management The Groups principal risks and the processes through whichthe Company aims to manage these risks are outlined rests with the Board, the effective day-to-day on pages 72 to 81.
Ongoing monitoring of our principal management of risk is integral in the waywe do risksand controls by the Board is undertaken by: business and the culture of our team, where the relatively low levels of authority for transactions requiring attitude to risk is that ofcollective responsibility.
Board approval see pages 90 and 91, with investment Our organisational structure, with close involvement of transactions and development approvals requiring, senior management in all significant decisions, combined amongst others, consideration of the impact on financial with our prudent and analytical approach, is designed leverage, interest cover and portfolio risk composition: toalign the Groups interests with those of shareholders.
the Executive Committees oversight of all day-to-day significant decisions: Setting and monitoring our risk appetite the Chief Executive reporting on the market conditions The Groups overarching risk appetite is set in the context dashboard, operational parameters and people as that we focus on only one market that we know inside out appropriate at each ofthe scheduled Board meetings: central London.
We also operate out of a single head office members of the Executive Committee providing a review within close proximity to all of our properties.
However, on the development programme, occupational markets because our market is cyclical, we apply a disciplined and key property matters at each of the scheduled approach to managing our operational risk, in particular Board meetings: our development exposure, in tune with market conditions whilst always maintaining low financial risk through the Finance Director reporting on the Group forecasts conservative financial leverage.
including actual and prospective leverage metrics, the occupier watch list and delinquencies, and health and We use a suite of key operational parameters as safety at each of the scheduled Board meetings: an important tool to set and then measure the the Executive Directors communicate with the Board on Groups riskprofile.
These parameters consider, amongst any significant market and operational matters between others, the Groups size, financial gearing, interest cover, Board meetings: level of speculative and total development exposure, and Senior Managers attending the Board and Audit single asset concentration risk.
These parameters are Committees as appropriate to discuss specific risks either revisited annually as part of the Groups Strategy Review and across the business, such as health and safety and cyber, reviewed at each Board meeting.
Both the Groups actual or relating to transactions: and and forecast position over the next five years against these parameters are monitored.
the Audit Committee meeting with the valuers twice See our operational measures on pages 26 and 27 a year to better understand market conditions and challenge theassumptions underlying the valuation.
Our risk culture and how we manage our risks Risk Assessment We believe that effective management of risk is based As part of a robust assessment of the principal risks ona top-down and bottom-up approach with inherent facingthe Group and its joint ventures, at the half year and lines of defence outlined on page 69 which include: year end, the Groups principal risks including those that our strategy setting process: would threaten its business model, future performance, the quality of our people and culture: solvency and liquidity, the controls in place to mitigate them and how key controls operated in the preceding established procedures and internal controls: six months were reviewed by the Executive Committee, policies for highlighting and controlling risks: the Audit Committee and the Board.
A description of the regular oversight by the relevant Committees and Groups principal risks, steps taken to mitigate those risks, theBoard: and together with an assessment of the impact and likelihood a clear reading of market conditions and the cycle.
ofeach and how the risks have changed in the year is shown on pages 72 to 81.
Risk management is an integral part of all our activities.
Risks and opportunities are considered as part of every business decision we make and how they would impact on the achievement of our strategic priorities and the performance of our business.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 69 Board oversight of risk Board Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Operational Committee oversight Weekly Quarterly Development management Strategy update Portfolio management Health and Safety Investment management Development management review Financial management Portfolio management review Sustainability Policies for highlighting and controlling risk Third line of defence Investment return Debt leverage, Regular review Occupancy Development Leasing benchmarks covenant of business plans, targets appraisal objectives compliance and dashboard parameters andoccupier liquidity limits lead indicators covenant testing and operational parameters Procedures and internal controls Second line of defence High level risk Strict approval Extensive Formal policies Defined External review Whistleblowing assessment requirements documentation and procedures performance of key controls policy framework to support consistently indicators with decisions applied sensitivity analysis People and culture First line of defence Focused Open Transparent Integrity in Interests Qualified and Conservative Analytical market communication disclosure with business aligned with experienced attitude rigour expertise stakeholders conduct shareholders personnel with to capital specific roles deployment Business risk Strategic Report Annual Review 70 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued This year we have also separately identified two additional Our focus during the year principal risks being: With the continued challenging market conditions as a result of the uncertain economic and political environment considering how we should further adapt to changing following the EU referendum, the focus on our strategy and occupier needs and technologies.
As part of this, we business model with a clear linkage back to overarching have created a new role of Director of Workplace and strategic priorities and operational parameters have Innovation and also have been: againbeen revisited at all our scheduled Board Meetings.
reviewing how we can provide more flexible lease Areas of significant focus have included: arrangements to occupiers: the continued strong and pragmatic leasing activity trialling a flex space offering to enable occupiers to across our development portfolio with significant be able to move into our buildings quicker: pre-lets achieved at 160 Old Street, EC1 and Hanover enhancing our focus on market developments in technology Square, W1, together with the capturing of 5.7 million and its incorporation into our developments: and ofreversionary rents: See more on pages 74 and 75 See more on pages 42 and 43 increasing our business resilience in the event of continuing to crystallise profits through sales of 240 a cyber-attack.
As part of this, our IT team has increased Blackfriars Road, SE1, 30 Broadwick Street, W1 and 78 92 thetesting of our IT systems, and together with the Great Portland Street, W1: Portfolio management team, is revisiting our business See more on pages 16 to 19 and 36 and 37 continuity plans for key systems across the portfolio.
See more on pages 80 and 81 maintaining our low leverage whilst still returning 416 million to shareholders: and See more on pages 45, 47 and 48 revisiting our health and safety procedures.
In the aftermath of the Grenfell Tower fire, we carried out a review of fire safety arrangements across our business and portfolio, and provided new guidance and updated building procedures to all our residential occupiers.
We also revisited and enhanced our health and safety procedures across our refurbishments and developments.
See more on page 53 Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 71 Assessment of viability Viability statement A three-year viability period is considered an optimum Assessment of the Groups prospects balance between our need to plan for the long term In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK andthe shorter term nature of our active business model, Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed which includes high levels of recycling of our property the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the portfolio and a committed development programme 12 months that has been required by the Going Concern which will be delivered over the next three years.
This longer-term assessment supports the Further sensitivity analysis was undertaken to flex the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, financial forecasts under a variety of macro-economic andgoing concern as set out on page 132. scenarios, both positive and negative.
The negative The Groups future prospects are assessed primarily scenarios included stress testing the resilience of the through its annual Strategy Review.
This review is led by Group, and its business model, to the potential impact the Chief Executive drawing on expertise from across of the Groups principal market risks, or a combination ourintegrated team.
It includes an assessment of the of these risks.
Specifically, the Board considered the macro-economic environment, forecasts of key property impact of differing levels of economic disruption resulting market metrics including yields and rental value growth, from our exit from the EU and separately a significant annual valuation progressions for each of its assets and economic downturn leading to asset value declines similar full forecast financial statements for a five-year period, to themarket movements of 2008 9.
In addition, a further with a primary focus on the first three years.
reverse stress test was carried out to understand how farproperty yields would need to rise, or rental values fall, The key outputs from this process are financial forecasts, before the Group was at risk of breaching the financial summarised in a dashboard, which analyse profits, covenants contained in its various loan arrangements.
cash flows, funding requirements, key financial ratios and headroom in respect of the financial covenants The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that, containedin the Groups various loan arrangements.
given the Groups financial strength, it would be able to The Strategy Review is considered by the Board in early withstand the impact of these scenarios over the period April and thereafter the financial forecasts are updated ofthe financial forecast.
and presented for regular review by the Board.
Viability statement The Groups financial forecasts contain a number of Whilst the directors have no reason to believe that the assumptions, including: Group will not be viable over a longer period, based on this assessment of the prospects and viability of the estimated year-on-year movements in rental values Group the directors confirm that they have a reasonable andyields for each of our key sub-markets: expectation that the Group will be able to continue in the refinancing of the Groups debt facilities as they operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the falldue within the forecast period: three-year period ending 31 March 2021. the completion of the Groups committed development programme and the commencement of selected pipeline projects: the Group maintains its preference for low financial leverage: and forecast interest rates.
Strategic Report Annual Review 72 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued How we manage risk Market risk Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Central London real estate Reduced relative The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key areas of investment, Low High The central London real estate market underperformed the wider UK market market under-performs other performance.
development and portfolio management is adjusted and updated throughout forthe second consecutive year, demonstrated by IPDs universe TPR exceeding UKproperty sectors.
the year, informed by regular research into the economy, investment and IPDs central London by 110 basis points on an absolute basis during the year occupational markets.
This relative under-performance over the last 12 months was driven in part by stronger growth in office rents outside central London and The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of regular particularly strong growth in both capital values and rents for UK industrial and review of dashboard lead indicators and operational parameters.
logistics properties which are very rare in central London.
The relatively muted The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
outlook for central London office and retail rents, combined with seven years of central London property out-performance from 2008 to 2015, means the likelihood of this risk after mitigation has been maintained.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 Weakening macro-economic Property valuations Regular economic updates are received and scenario planning is undertaken Low High The UK macro-economic growth and interest rate outlook has remained mixed environment for property may decline, with fordifferent economic cycles, including various potential UK exit arrangements overthe last 12 months, in part driven by ongoing geo-political uncertainty investment.
increased property from the EU.
following the EU referendum result and progress to date in exit negotiations.
yields and reduced Whencombined with limited UK stock market growth, despite increased price The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
occupier demand volatility, the likelihood of this risk has been maintained.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 Heightened political uncertainty Reluctance by The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of Low High Although investor and occupier demand for London commercial property has and potential negative investors and theseuncertainties.
remained broadly resilient over the last year, the negotiations to leave the EU economic impact of ongoing occupiers to make may result in arrangements that are damaging to the UK economy and or central The Groups financial forecasts and business plans continue to be prepared negotiations to exit from the EU.
The negotiations together with the transition is expected to take several under a variety of market scenarios, including to reflect different potential exit whilst outcomes years, creating uncertainty which may impact investment, capital, financial and arrangements from the EU, with the frequency of updates increased following remain uncertain occupier markets.
In the long term, exit from the EU could reduce levels of investor thereferendum result.
and or reduced and occupier demand as a result of reduced trade and relocation of corporations Lobbying of property industry matters is undertaken by active participation ofthe attractiveness of and financial institutions away from the UK.
These risks would likely be further Executive Committee members through relevant industry bodies.
London as a global increased by any additional impediments for Londons businesses to access commercial centre.
talented employees from the EU and beyond.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
The Group has a diverse occupier base with around 12% in the financial services In addition, the uncertainty may also contribute to a potential change in the political sector, including only c. 1% in the investment banking, securities trading and landscape at both a local and UK level, which could adversely impact the prospects insurance sectors which are perceived to be most at risk in London to any of both private sector business and the property sector.
As a result, the likelihood adverseimpact of the UKs exit from the EU.
of this risk has marginally increased.
However, the likelihood after mitigation has been maintained given our continued net sales activity and financial strength, with a current pro forma loan to value of only 11.6%, taking into account our most recent 306 million return of capital to shareholders.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 Investment management Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Incorrect reading of the Not sufficiently The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to constantly research each of Low High The Group has continued to profitably recycle capital and take advantage of property market cycle through capitalising on market the sub-markets within central London seeking the right balance of investment and strong investor demand for long-let, well-located properties with sales totalling poor investment decisions and investment conditions.
development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated market conditions.
With limited availability of attractively priced acquisitions or mis-timed recycling of capital.
opportunities and the depth of opportunity in our existing portfolio, we made only Regular review of property cycle by reference to dashboard of lead indicators.
one acquisition in the year for 49.6 million.
With our strategic focus and capital Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase discipline, there has been no change to the likelihood of this risk after mitigation.
Case studies on pages 16 and 17, and 18 and 19 Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate Investment management operational measures on page 36 rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 Investment management on pages 36 and 37 Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans including with joint venture partners where relevant.
Inappropriate asset Reduced liquidity Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
Adjustment ofthe Low High The Group continues to monitor its portfolio mix and asset concentration risk.
concentration, building mix, and relative property portfolio as appropriate through undertaking acquisitions and ordevelopment Following our sale of Rathbone Square, W1 in the year ended 31 March 2017, occupiers covenant quality performance.
projects in joint venture or forward funding.
ourlargest asset is now only 10.2% ofthe total portfolio and 18.1% of the portfolio and exposure, lot size and joint was held in joint ventures at 31 March 2018.
As a result, there has been no change The Group has a diverse occupier base with its ten largest occupiers representing venture exposure.
tothelikelihood of this risk after mitigation.
Occupiers covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as partof Valuation on pages 56 and 57 the lease approval process.
Regular contact with occupiers ismaintained to identify if occupiers are suffering financial difficulties andtheirproposed actions.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 73 Market risk Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Central London real estate Reduced relative The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key areas of investment, Low High The central London real estate market underperformed the wider UK market market under-performs other performance.
C ase studies on pages 16 and 17, and 18 and 19 Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate Investment management operational measures on page 36 rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
2018 2017 Strategic Report Annual Review 74 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued How we manage risk Portfolio management Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Poor management of voids, Failure to maximise The Groups in-house portfolio management and leasing teams proactively Low High The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy rental mis-pricing, low income from manage occupiers to ensure changing needs are met, with a focus on retaining anddrive rental growth.
With a healthy occupier retention rate of 40% over the occupier retention, subinvestment properties.
income in light of vacant possession requirements for refurbishments and year, the Group maintained a relatively low void rate which was 4.9% at 31 March optimal rent reviews, occupier developments and liaise regularly with external advisers to ensure correct pricing 2018, down from 6.8% at 31 March 2017 despite our recent development and failures and dissatisfaction, of lease transactions.
andinappropriate Occupiers covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as part During the year, we secured 31.1 million of new rental income, with 58% of total refurbishments.
of the lease approval process.
Regular contact with occupiers is maintained to lettings represented by pre-lets or lettings at recently completed developments.
identify if occupiers are suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Therent reviews competed over the year were settled at average increase of 29.6% above the previous passing rent.
Independent occupier satisfaction survey undertaken and new Head of Occupier Services role created to strengthen our service delivery.
Occupier delinquencies during the year represented only 0.1% of total rent roll and at 31 March 2018 we held rent deposits and bank guarantees totalling 31.7 million including for some of our larger retail occupiers.
88% of our occupiers who participated in our inaugural occupier satisfaction survey described our service as good or excellent.
As a result of these performances and our current initiatives, there has been no change to the likelihood of this risk after mitigation.
Case study on pages 22 and 23 Portfolio management operational measures on page 42 Portfolio management on pages 42 and 43 Our portfolio on pages 54 to 59 Failure to react to evolving Buildings and lease Creation of Director of Workplace and Innovation role who is responsible for Low High We identified this is an emerging risk last year and a new risk for this year given the workplace needs including structures cease to keeping the Board up to date on market developments and incorporating pace of evolution in workplace needs and technology.
occupiers seeking increased appeal to occupiers innovation in the GPE portfolio.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 flexibility and enhanced building and investors, Reviews undertaken of further opportunities for flex space offering across design, combined with impact reducing income theportfolio.
of technological advances on andvaluations.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 75 Portfolio management Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Poor management of voids, Failure to maximise The Groups in-house portfolio management and leasing teams proactively Low High The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy rental mis-pricing, low income from manage occupiers to ensure changing needs are met, with a focus on retaining anddrive rental growth.
C ase study on pages 22 and 23 Portfolio management operational measures on page 42 Portfolio management on pages 42 and 43 Our portfolio on pages 54 to 59 Failure to react to evolving Buildings and lease Creation of Director of Workplace and Innovation role who is responsible for Low High We identified this is an emerging risk last year and a new risk for this year given the workplace needs including structures cease to keeping the Board up to date on market developments and incorporating pace of evolution in workplace needs and technology.
2018 2017 Strategic Report Annual Review 76 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued How we manage risk Development management Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary An inappropriate level of Under performance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a percentage of Low High The Groups committed development exposure has not materially changed development undertaken as against KPIs.
portfolio, including the impact on the Groups income profile and financial over the year, falling from 12% of the total portfolio 12 months ago to 11% today.
However, 88.8% of this committed exposure is on a speculative basis, up from 34.8% a year ago.
As a result, the impact of this risk has marginally increased, although Developments only committed to when pre-lets obtained and or market the likelihood after mitigation is unchanged given the quality of the space that demandand supply considered to be sufficiently supportive.
we are delivering, allin close proximity to Crossrail stations and with a significant proportion being retailunits in prime central London shopping locations.
Case studies on pages 24 and 25 Development management on pages 38 to 41 Poor execution of development Poor development See Market risk on page above.
Low High Although the Group successfully completed three developments since 31 March programme through: returns.
2017, the Groups committed development exposure has not materially changed Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a detailed Financial over the year given the recent commitment to three new schemes.
These schemes incorrect reading of the and Operational appraisal process which evaluates the expected returns from a have a combined GDV 756.8 million of which 11.2% is already fide-risked through propertycycle: development in light of likely risks.
During the course of a development, the actual pre-lettings with capex to come of 239.6 million, up from 44.5 million a year ago.
costs and estimated returns are regularly monitored to signpost prompt decisions inappropriate location: As a result, the impact of this risk has marginally increased, although with occupier on project management, leasing and ownership.
failure to gain viable demand remaining healthy for prime, new build space in central London and the Early engagement and strong relationships with planning authorities.
planningconsents: supply of such space remaining tight, the likelihood after mitigation is unchanged.
Early engagement with adjoining owners.
failure to reach agreement Case studies on pages 20 to 25 and 55 withadjoining owners on Benchmarking of costs with comparative schemes.
Development management operational measures on page 38 Development management on pages 38 to 41 acceptable terms: In-house Project Management team utilise appropriate procurement methods Our portfolio on pages 58 and 59 level of speculative to optimise the balance of price certainty and risk.
development: Internal and external resourcing requirements regularly reviewed by the Executive incorrect cost and Committee, Development Director and Head of Projects.
Third party resource programmeestimation: expertise used to support in-house teams, where appropriate.
construction cost inflation: Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of demolition, main contractors and material sub-contractors prior to awarding of contracts.
contractor availability and insolvency risk: Working with agents, potential occupiers and purchasers to identify their needs and aspirations including technological advances during the planning application insufficient human resources: and design stages.
a building being inappropriate Design Review Panel reviews building design and specification to ensure it is tooccupier demand: appropriate for likely occupier needs.
quality and benchmarks of the In-house Leasing Marketing team liaise with external advisers on a regular basis and completed buildings: marketing timetables designed in accordance with leasing marketing objectives.
construction and procurement All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings with a target to delays: achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new ineffective marketing to build properties.
prospective occupiers: and Proactive liaison with existing occupiers before and during the development process.
poor development Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record of delivery and management.
In-house Project Management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors to ensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint venture partners.
Post-completion reviews undertaken on all developments to identify best practice and areas for improvement.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 77 Development management Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary An inappropriate level of Under performance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a percentage of Low High The Groups committed development exposure has not materially changed development undertaken as against KPIs.
C ase studies on pages 24 and 25 Development management on pages 38 to 41 Poor execution of development Poor development See Market risk on page above.
failure to reach agreement C ase studies on pages 20 to 25 and 55 withadjoining owners on Benchmarking of costs with comparative schemes.
2018 2017 Strategic Report Annual Review 78 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued How we manage risk Financial risks Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Limited availability of Growth of business Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient Low High The Group has continued to be active in managing it debt facilities, ensuring an furthercapital.
isconstrained or undrawnfacilities are in place.
attractive maturity ladder and maintaining diverse funding sources, predominantly unableto execute borrowing on an unsecured basis.
During the year, the Group redeemed 121.0 Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long term.
million of high coupon, secured debenture bonds and raised 100 million of new The Groups funding measures are diversified across a range of bank and unsecured private placement notes.
When combined with the Groups 450 million bondmarkets.
committed revolving credit facility which is currently undrawn, the Groups weighted Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
average debt maturity has increased to 5.7 years pro forma for draw down in June 2018 of the new private placement notes.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities increased from 378 million at 31 March 2017 to 666 million today 31 March 2018 position pro forma for subsequent transactions.
With our liquidity and debt position remaining exceptionally strong, the likelihood of this risk has not changed.
Our capital discipline on pages 47 and 48 Our financial results on pages 44 to 46 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 161 to 165 Increased interest rates Adverse market Consistent policy of conservative financial leverage.
Low High Whilst broader economic and political uncertainties have kept global interest and or a fall in capital values.
movements negatively rates at relatively low levels, the Bank of England base rate increased for the first Regular review of current and forecast debt levels and financing ratios under impact on debt time in ten years in November 2017, although the increase was to a modest 0.5% various market scenarios.
and some way behind increases implemented in the US.
Moreover, there remains Our annual Business Plan which is regularly updated includes stress tests an expectation of further modest increases in UK interest rates.
However, 100% considering the impact of a significant deterioration in the markets in which of the Groups debt is currently at fixed or hedged interest rates, and the Groups we operate.
weighted average interest rate fell over the year to 2.3% given our refinancing Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having a high proportion activities.
As a result, the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged, particularly ofdebt with fixed or capped interest rates through derivatives.
given that we estimate property values could fall be around 78% from their 31 March 2018 pro forma levels before Group debt covenants could be endangered, even Significant headroom over all financial covenants at 31 March 2018. before factoring in mitigating management actions.
O ur capital discipline operational measures on page 47 Our capital discipline on pages 47 and 48 Our financial results on pages 44 to 46 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 161 to 165 Inappropriate capital structure.
Sub-optimal NAV per Regular review of current and forecast capital requirements, gearing levels and Low High The Groups existing capital structure remains well placed to take advantage of share growth.
Maintain balance sheet discipline, with surplus equity opportunities as they arise and to deliver our current development commitments.
capital returned to shareholders in appropriate circumstances.
As a result, the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged.
Our capital discipline on pages 47 and 48 Our financial results on pages 44 to 46 People Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Incorrect level and mix retention Strategic priorities Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource requirements and Low High The motivation of our people and maintaining our strong collaborative culture of people, to execute our notachieved.
remains fundamental to the delivery of our strategic priorities.
business plan and maintain The Group has a remuneration system that is strongly linked to performance Staff retention remains high at 87% and 89% of our employees would recommend our collegiate inclusive culture, anda formal six-monthly appraisal system to provide regular assessment of GPE as a great place to work.
Moreover, our continued focus on growing the combined with inability to individual performance.
breadth and depth of our talent, providing focused development support where attract, develop, motivate and needed combined with the restructuring of some of our teams and twelve internal Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertaken annually.
promotions during the year, means the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged Annual personal development planning and ongoing training support for all over the year.
employees together with focused initiatives to nurture potential successors, O ur culture and people operational measures on page 60 including introduction of mentoring programme.
Our culture and people on pages 60 to 63 Health and wellbeing programme being developed following roll out of mental Remuneration report on pages 108 to 134 health training programme.
Focus on people engagement with regular two-way communication and responsive employee-focused activities e. g. flexible working.
High profile, attractive development pipeline and high quality assets tomanage.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 79 Financial risks Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Limited availability of Growth of business Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient Low High The Group has continued to be active in managing it debt facilities, ensuring an furthercapital.
2018 2017 Strategic Report Annual Review 80 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Our approach to risk continued How we manage risk Regulatory Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Increased costs of compliance Increased cost base Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using experienced Low High In addition to the significant regulatory and tax uncertainty associated with the UKs and or risk of non-compliance and potential negative advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance with current and potential exit from the EU, the introduction of capital gains tax for overseas investors on UK with growing regulatory impact on property futureregulations.
commercial property from 2019 may impact the weight of investment appetite.
obligations including tax, values given reduced Through meetings with local politicians, planning officers and experienced Following the recent local elections, we are closely monitoring whether changes planning, environmental, fire investor and occupier advisors we monitor any changing planning policy sentiment that may impact inthe political landscape, particularly within Westminster City Council, impacts safety and other legislation.
anyexisting planning policy and or procedures.
and or reputational Lobbying of property industry matters is undertaken by active participation of the Only 3% of portfolio by area is EPC F or G rated.
Where units are vacant they are damage.
Executive Directors and other Executive Committee members through relevant being refurbished to improve the rating or where they are currently let plans are industry bodies.
inplace to improve the rating when they become vacant.
Sustainability Committee meets at least quarterly to consider strategy inrespect We are monitoring the consultation process for the London Plan and have included of environmental legislation and address key areas of carbon, energy, waste a number of its themes in our sustainability strategy.
It is likely that the inquiry andbiodiversity.
into the Grenfell Tower fire will result in changes to the regulatory regime.
We are monitoring the process closely.
Environmental management system in place.
Taken together, the risk likelihood after mitigation has marginally increased over Energy reduction plan for every key property.
We maintain a low-risk tax status and have regular meetings with HMRC.
Our market on pages 31 to 35 Property industry representation on pages 64 to 67 Our relationships on page 51 Our portfolio on pages 58 and 59 Health and Safety incidents.
Resultant reputational The Group has dedicated Health and Safety personnel to oversee the Groups Low High With increased levels of both development and refurbishment activity, including damage.
management systems which include regular risk assessments and annual audits in our occupied buildings, the likelihood of this risk after mitigation has marginally Loss of life or injury to members to proactively address key fire, health and safety areas including employee, increased.
The Group had five reportable accidents during the year.
of the public, occupiers, contractor, members of the public and occupier safety.
Health and safety on page 53 On all construction projects, the Group operates a pre-qualification process toensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes aHealth and Safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability, with reporting tothe Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
Regular site and health and safety checks undertaken by our Development and Project Management teams, Executive Committee members and external thirdparties.
Business interruption risk Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary An external event such as a Significant damage, The Group has a Business Continuity Plan with predetermined processes Low High The likelihood of this risk is unchanged given the Home Office MI5 continue power shortage, extreme disruption and andescalation for the Crisis Management Team.
Asset emergency plans exist toassess the UK threat from international terrorism as severe.
weather, environmental incident, or reputational for individual properties.
civil unrest or terrorist attack that damage tothe Physical security measures are in place at properties and security threats are significantly affects the Groups Groups portfolio regularly assessed through links with security agencies.
The Groups insurance policies include cover for catastrophic events including ourportfolio concentration in fire, storm, riots and terrorism.
Business disruption The Groups Business Continuity Plan is regularly reviewed and recovery Low High We have identified this as a new risk this year given the increased incidence to Groups portfolio ofdataatoff-site recovery centre was tested during the year.
ofattempted cyber attacks on UK businesses.
and operations and or Regular testing of IT security is undertaken including penetration testing reputational damage ofkeysystems.
The Groups data is regularly backed up and replicated.
Staff awareness training on cyber risk is undertaken regularly.
Cyber risk insurance secured during the year.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 81 Regulatory Link to Likelihood Impact strategic change from change from Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk last year last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Increased costs of compliance Increased cost base Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using experienced Low High In addition to the significant regulatory and tax uncertainty associated with the UKs and or risk of non-compliance and potential negative advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance with current and potential exit from the EU, the introduction of capital gains tax for overseas investors on UK with growing regulatory impact on property futureregulations.
