64 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 The Board Left from top: Martin Scicluna, Toby Courtauld, Nick Sanderson, CharlesPhilipps.
Right from top: Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton, RichardMully, JonathanShort, Alison Rose.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 65 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Martin Scicluna BCom Wendy Becker BASc, MBA Chairman Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: February 2017 Date appointed to the Board: October 2008 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes, on appointment Experience: Non-Executive Director of NHS England and Deputy Chair Experience: Chairman of RSA.
Former Senior Independent Director and of Cancer Research UK.
Former Non-Executive Director of Whitbread Chairman of the Audit Committee of WorldPay.
Formerly Non-Executive PLC, Chief Executive of Jack Wills Ltd and a partner of McKinsey & Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Lloyds Banking Group Company Inc. Age 52. following 34 years at Deloitte, including Chairman from 1995 to 2007.
Relevant skills: Retail, Strategy consultancy, Technology Age 67.
Current external commitments: Non-Executive Director of NHS Relevant skills: Finance, Insurance England, Deputy Chair of Cancer Research UK and Non-Executive Current external commitments: Chairman of RSA plc.
Director of Logitech International S. A.
Executive Directors Nick Hampton MA Hons Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee: Chief Executive Member of the Nomination Committee Committee memberships: Chairman of the Executive Committee: Date appointed to the Board: October 2016 Chairman of Sustainability Committee Independent: Yes Date appointed to the Board: April 2002 Experience: Chief Executive Officer previously Chief Financial Officer Independent: No ofTate & Lyle, 20 years with PespiCo in a number of financial, commercial and operational roles.
Experience: Joined the Group in April 2002 as Chief Executive.
Relevant skills: Global Corporate, Finance Previously with the property company MEPC for 11 years, he gained broad experience ranging from portfolio management through to Current external commitments: Chief Executive Officer of Tate & Lyle.
corporate transactions and general management as a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Past President of British Property Richard Mully BSc Hons, MBA Federation.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Relevant skills: Real Estate Nomination Committees Current external commitments: Member of the British Property Date appointed to the Board: December 2016 Federation Board and Policy Committee, Director of The New West End Company, Non-Executive Director of Liv-Ex Limited, Member of the Independent: Yes Council of Imperial College.
Experience: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Standard Life Aberdeen and Vice Chairman and member Nick Sanderson BA Hons, ACA of the Supervisory Board of Alstria Office REIT-AG.
Formerly founder and Managing Partner of Soros Real Estate Partners LLC: Senior Independent Finance Director Director at ISG, Hansteen Holdings and St Modwen Properties.
Committee memberships: Member of the Executive Committee: Relevant skills: Real Estate, Banking, Private Equity Chairman of the Health and Safety Committee Current external commitments: Non-Executive Director at Standard Appointed to the Board: July 2011 Life Aberdeen, Chairman of Arlington Business Parks Partnership Ltd and Independent: No Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Alstria Office REIT-AG.
Experience: Joined the Group in July 2011 as Finance Director.
Formerly Partner, Head of Real Estate Corporate Finance Advisory at Deloitte, Jonathan Short BSc, ACIB, FRICS following ten years of real estate investment banking experience in Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Europe and Asia with Nomura, Lehman Brothers and UBS Investment Bank.
Nomination Committees Date appointed to the Board: March 2007 Relevant skills: Real Estate, Banking, Finance Independent: Yes Current external commitments: Member of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation, Member of the Reporting & Accounting Experience: Chairman of Principal Real Estate Europe, a panEuropean Committee of EPRA.
real estate investment management business.
Previously CEOof Pramericas real estate private equity business following 16 years Non-Executive Director ininvestment banking at Lazard, Barings and SG Warburg.
Formerly aNon-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc.
Charles Philipps ACA Relevant skills: Real Estate, Banking, Private Equity Senior Independent Director Current external commitments: Chairman of Principal Real Estate Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Europe and Deputy Chairman of Annington Limited Group.
Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: April 2014 Alison Rose BA Hons Independent: Yes Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Experience: Formerly Chief Executive Officer of MS Amlin plc and Nomination Committee from 1 September 2018 adirector of NatWest Markets.
Date appointed to the Board: April 2018 Relevant skills: Banking, Insurance, Finance Independent: Yes Current external commitments: Trustee of the Outward Bound Trust.
Experience: Chief Executive of Royal Bank of Scotland Commercial and Private Banking has also held a number of other banking and finance roles within Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest Markets.
Relevant skills: Finance, Banking Current external commitments: Chief Executive of Royal Bank of Scotland Commercial and Private Banking.
