Operational review continued REVENUE 215.1m 7.4% BREWING 1,2 EBITDA 36.0m -0.6% & BRANDS 1,2 OPERATING PROFIT Brewing & Brands sells and distributes a wide range of 30.7m -1.0% award-winning craftales to both the on and the off-trade.
1,2 OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN They are brewed in one ofourtwo breweries inBurySt Edmunds and Dunbar.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items.
An explanation of the groups use of alternative performance measures APMs, including definitions and reconciliations, is included in the glossary on page128.
STRATEGIC REPORT In Brewing & Brands, our proven long-term strategy is to build consumer Greene Kings core brands maintained their UK market-leading positions: loyalty to Greene King through consistent investment in our core ale brands Greene King IPA continues to be the fastest-selling top ten cask ale brand and innovative range of seasonal and craft ales.
Through this we continue in the on-trade: Abbot Ale is the no.
1 premium cask ale brand and the to win market share and contribute to Greene Kings strong returns and fourth largest ale brand in the UK: Old Speckled Hen is the number one cash generation.
premium ale in the UK: Old Speckled Hen Gluten Free is the fastest-selling gluten-free ale in Britain: and Belhaven Best remains the number one draught Own-brewed volumes OBV were down 1.2% with strong growth in ale in Scotland and number four keg ale in the UK.
East Coast IPA also had free trade and exports offset by declines elsewhere in the on-trade.
a strong year, with total volume growth of 39%, making it one of the top Greene King outperformed the total ale market, which was down 3.7%, 15 fastest-growing keg ales in the UK.
thereby increasing its share of the total ale market by 0.2%pts source:BBPA.
The success of our brands is supported by our dedicated brand investment Operating profit was down 1.0% and operating profit margin was down programme.
Greene King IPA continues to be the official beer of England 1.2%pts, driven by the increased cost of goods sold and changes in sales Cricket and the official sponsor of the Greene King IPA Rugby Championship.
channel and customer mix, including the disposals made over the year A new contemporary brand identity was fully rolled out for Abbot Ale across the estate.
Reserve, reinforcing the quality and premium attributes of the brand.
We launched our largest ever new brand campaign for Old Speckled Hen: our Seek a Richer Life television and digital campaign reached over 7.5m consumers over its first six weeks.
The Belhaven Brewery celebrates its 300th birthday in 2019 and we will pursue a high profile PR and marketing campaign to mark the occasion and drive another year of growth for the brand.
Once again our beers won multiple awards over the year.
We received aGrand Gold prize at the Monde Selection Awards 2018 for Vintage Heritage Pale Ale, a Gold award for Belhaven Twisted Mango IPA, and Silver for Craft Academys Big Bang.
In addition, Vintage Heritage Fine Ale Greene Kings core was shortlisted for the Monde Selection Awards Prize of the Jury 2018 for the best product in all beer, water and soft drinks categories.
We were brands maintained their uk particularly pleased to be the first UK company to receive the Crystal Prestige Trophy, which is awarded to businesses that have received market-leading positions.
GrandGold, Gold, Silver or Bronze Awards for ten consecutive years.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 27
