STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy TO BE THE BEST PUB AND BEER COMPANY IN BRITAIN Priorities for the next year To help us deliver on the five key pillars of our long-term strategy, we have three near-term priorities: 1.
F urther strengthen our We are focused on delivering improved LFL andeffective organisation capitalstructure sales and ultimately market outperformance.
We will continue to operate a diversified but We have a strong and flexible balance sheet We will not drive LFL sales at any cost but integrated business model covering managed supported by our relentless focus on generating seek to strike the right balance between sales pubs, tenanted pubs and brewing.
Within this, enough cash, pre-disposals, to cover our debt growth and margin delivery.
Some of the key given the ongoing industry cost pressures and service obligations, our core estate capex activities over the next three years to help the fast pace of consumer change, we have requirements and an attractive dividend to our deliver better LFL sales include: tobecome a more efficient and effective shareholders.
To further strengthen our capital organisation.
Actions to deliver this include: structure and maintain the delivery of this clearer brand and price propositions: strategy, we will use our targeted leverage levels further cost savings programmes: to continue to invest in growth opportunities industry-leading VSQ: while looking to complete the refinancing of a realignment of the Pub Company support investment in becoming the pub leader the Spirit debenture.
Our Spirit refinancing centre to match the simpler brand portfolio: indigital: plan will both reduce the overall cost of debt a simplification of our business systems and increase the flexibility within our debt optimising our labour deployment: andprocesses: and platform.
Strengthening our capital structure maximising event-driven sales will help ensure that, in the challenging trading improved employee engagement opportunities:and environment, we can continue to pay attractive tohelpdrive betterproductivity.
dividends and return dividend cover to around further estate quality improvement.
16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our overall vision is to be the best pub and beer company in Britain and our mission is to be the best for our customers, our employees, our shareholders and our communities.
The five key pillars of our long-term strategy are to: Strategy BUILD BRANDS THAT Provide offers that Maintain a well-located 1 CUSTOMERS ADMIRE 2 deliver compelling value, 4 and invested estate service and quality We will focus on four brands going forward.
Our pub estate is 82% freehold or long leasehold and we are committed to ensuring Increased consumer expectations, combined The Greene King pub brand has significant in both Pub Company and in PubPartners with the growth in alternative dining untapped provenance based on 219 years that the core estate is well invested on a five opportunities such as takeaway and delivery, of history and we have redeveloped the to six-year cycle and that we constantly mean that all eating and drinking out providers brands proposition to reflect its ambition improve the overall quality of the estate.
need to deliver more compelling experiences tobe the best pub in the neighbourhood.
Wespent 193m in the financial year on to customers.
We continue to monitor the Weare extending the brand into more food-led ourestate, covering core capital expenditure, success of our 10m customer investment as pubs where appropriate and, in addition, new builds, brandconversions and freehold we look to strike the right balance between both Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands reversion purchases.
We expect to spend the inherent value of a pub brand and the will continue to play an important role in between 180m and 210m in the new requirement to target specific customers supporting the delivery of the Greene King financial year.
All investment options create through promotional activity.
We increased brand proposition through our branded value for shareholders including delivering the emphasis on delivering better service this tenanted and leased pubs andthrough normalised core capital investment returns of year, incentivising pub teams on TripAdvisor ourbeer range.
Our new scores, guest satisfaction reviews and mystery build programme, which has previously been guest scores, which all improved against the Chef & Brewer is our country pub brand focused on Farmhouse Inns, will diversify to with its focus on both the chef and the previous year.
We also increased the include lodges, Chef & Brewer and specific frequency of food quality benchmarking and brewer essential for success.
It caters formats within the Greene King estate.
In effectively for customers looking to refuel we are increasing our focus on drink quality addition, we will continue tomake a small with an integrated end-to-end plan covering on a casual basis, as well as customers number of single-site acquisitions and treating their visit as a special occasion.
The other Farmhouse Inns is our out-of-town, important element of our strategy is to food-led brand where families and friends dispose of non-core pubs.
This has been a Develop people who can feast together from either our carvery successful programme to date, having sold offer or our main menu.
It is an extremely 295pubs over the last three years and raising 3 exceed expectations popular brand with customers, as shown proceeds of 288m at an average multiple of bythe latest MCA Pub Brand Monitor, in 14x EBITDA.
These pubs are mainly tail pubs Running pubs is primarily a people business which customers placed Farmhouse Inns that we do not believe have along-term future and having a team that not only meets customer first across all large pub brands for food within Greene King, but are also gold bricks, expectations, but consistently exceeds them, quality, drink quality, friendly service, menu where abuyer places a materially higher will stand us apart from our peers and create choice and value formoney.
alternative use value on a pub.
Our 39,000 employees will start to see changes in the Hungry Horse offers generous value, every amount, the quality and the effectiveness of day.
It is located in both local communities their training programmes over the next two to Manage our and in destination sites and is able to cater three years.
We are addressing our recruitment for a broad set of customer occasions 5 finances prudently capabilities and skills, investing in improving ranging from adult football watching to core management and front-line service skills, family dining due to the average pub size We have a long-term track record of and focusing on further developing leadership andinternal segmentation of the pub.
generating enough cash, pre-disposals, to skills throughout the business.
cover our debt servicing obligations, our All our other pub brands have either been corecapex requirements and our attractive replaced e. g. Fayre & Square or will be dividend.
Our balance sheet and cash flow subsumed into these four brands over the management is aimed at continuing this into course of the new year.
This emphasis on four the future.
As a consequence, we believe a net brands will help to deliver significant business debt to EBITDA ratio of between 4 and 4.5x simplification and efficiency improvements is the right range for our predominantly while at the same time allow us to continue freehold estate and strong cash conversion.
tailoring a pubs offer to local customer needs.
Using this simpler brand structure will help uskeep a tighter focus onthe four brand propositions and drive upnet promoter scores NPS and customersatisfaction.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 17
