Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Strategic Report Introduction from higher power prices as the Group is not required to be locked into long term xed price contracts.
The Directors present their Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of the Directors The Group has used debt facilities to make additional who held ofce during the year and as at the date of investments in the year.
This has enhanced the Groups this report are given on pages 22 to 24. attractiveness to sellers since execution risk is greatly diminished, with the Group effectively being a cash Investment Objective buyer.
The Group will continue to use debt facilities to The Companys aim is to provide investors with an make further investments.
annual dividend that increases in line with RPI ination while preserving the capital value of its investment The Group will look to repay its drawn debt facilities portfolio in the long term on a real basis through by renancing them in the equity markets at reinvestment of excess cashow and the prudent use appropriate times in order to refresh its debt capacity.
The target return to investors is While debt facilities are drawn, the Group benets an IRR net of fees and expenses of 8 per cent.
to 9 per from an increase in investor returns because borrowing cent..
The 2018 dividend of 6.76 pence per annum is costs are below the underlying return on investments.
targeted to increase in line with December 2018 RPI In the renewable infrastructure sector, links to to 6.94 pence for 2019.
Progress on the objectives is developers are not important in sourcing new measured by reference to the key metrics on page 1. acquisitions as the assets are held by a large number of Investment Policy owners.
Independence is of key importance for the Company to continue to make acquisitions at the best The Group invests in UK wind farms predominantly possible price.
The Investment Managers relationships with a capacity of over 10MW, which sell the power across the sector are also important.
produced and associated green benets to creditworthy UK offtakers under route-to-market The Group invests in both onshore and offshore wind power purchase agreements.
farms with the amount invested in offshore wind farms being capped at 40 per cent.
As the Group has no borrowings at wind farm level, and only limited borrowing at the Group level, the annual The Board believes that there is a significant market in dividend is sufciently protected against lower power which the Group can continue to grow over the next prices.
At the same time, it has the ability to benefit few years.
Tappaghan 04 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Structure Corporate and Social Responsibility The Company is a UK registered investment company Environmental, Social and Governance Matters with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group invests in wind farms and the environmental The Group comprises the Company and Holdco.
benets of renewable energy are widely known.
Holdco invests in SPVs which hold the underlying wind The Group relies on the Investment Manager to apply farm assets.
The Group employs Greencoat Capital LLP appropriate environmental, social and governance as its Investment Manager.
policies to the investments the Group makes.
The Discount Control Groups approach to responsible investing, including The Articles of Association require a continuation vote the environmental standards it aims to meet, are set by shareholders if the share price were to trade at an out in the policies in place at the Investment Manager.
average discount to NAV of 10 per cent.
or more over Responsible investing principles have been applied to a 12 month period.
Notwithstanding this, it is the each of the investments made.
intention of the Board for the Company to buy back its These policies require the Group to make reasonable own shares in the market if the share price is trading at endeavours to procure the ongoing compliance a material discount to NAV, providing of course that it of its portfolio companies with its policies on is in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Further details on these Review of Business and Future Outlook policies may be found on the Companys website: www.
A detailed discussion of individual asset performance and a review of the business in the year together with The Investment Manager monitors compliance at the future outlook are covered in the Investment investment phase and reports on an ongoing basis to Managers Report on pages 9 to 21. the Board.
Key Performance Indicators Employees and Ofcers of the Company The Board believes that the key metrics detailed on The Company does not have any employees and page 1, which are typical for investment entities, therefore employee policies are not required.
The together with cash generation will provide Directors of the Company are listed on page 76. shareholders with sufficient information to assess how effectively the Group is meeting its objectives.
Diversity The Groups policy on diversity is detailed in the Ongoing Charges Corporate Governance Report on page 31.
The ongoing charges ratio of the Company is 1.13 per cent.
of the weighted average NAV for the year to Principal Risks and Uncertainties 31 December 2018.
This is made up as follows and has In the normal course of business, each investee been calculated using the AIC recommended company has a rigorous risk management framework methodology.
with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 updated regularly and approved by its board.
The key 000 % 000 % risks identied by the Board to the performance of the Total management fee 13,189 1.04 9,668 1.11 Group are detailed below.
Directors fees 233 0.02 225 0.03 The Board maintains a risk matrix setting out the risks 1 Ongoing expenses 955 0.07 858 0.10 affecting both the Group and the investee companies.
Total 14,377 1.13 10,751 1.24 This risk matrix is reviewed and updated at least annually to ensure that procedures are in place to identify, Weighted average NAV 1,273,943 869,732 mitigate and minimise the impact of risks should they 1 crystallise.
This enables the Board to carry out a robust Ongoing expenses do not include 743k 2017: 550k of management and administration fees relating to the wind farm assessment of the risks facing the Group, including SPVs that is recharged to them, and 42k 2017: 89k of broken those principal risks that would threaten its business deal costs.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Following the equity placing in February 2019 and As it is not possible to eliminate risks completely, the assuming no further change in NAV, the 2019 ongoing purpose of the Groups risk management policies and charges ratio is expected to be 1.08 per cent.. procedures is not to eliminate risks, but to reduce them The Investment Manager is not paid any performance and to ensure that the Group is adequately prepared or acquisition fees.
to respond to such risks and to minimise any impact if the risk develops.
05 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued further investments which offer the potential for satisfactory returns.
The spread of assets within the portfolio ensures that the portfolio benets from a diversied wind resource The Investment Management Agreement includes key and spreads the exposure to a number of potential man provisions which would require the Investment technical risks associated with grid connections and Manager to employ alternative staff with similar with local distribution and national transmission experience relating to investment, ownership, networks.
In addition, the portfolio includes 6 different nancing and management of wind farms should for turbine manufacturers, which diversies technology any reason any key man cease to be employed by the and maintenance risks.
Finally, each site contains a Investment Manager.
The Investment Management number of individual turbines, the performance of Agreement ensures that no investments are made which is largely independent of other turbines.
following the loss of key men until suitable replacements are found and there are provisions for a Risks Affecting the Group reduction in the investment management fee during Investment Manager the loss period.
It also outlines the process for their The ability of the Group to achieve its investment replacement with the Boards approval.
In addition, the objective depends heavily on the experience of the key men are shareholders in the Company.
management team within the Investment Manager and more generally on the Investment Managers ability to Financing Risk attract and retain suitable staff.
The sustained growth The Group will finance further investments either by of the Group depends upon the ability of the borrowing or by issuing further shares.
The ability of Investment Manager to identify, select and execute the Group to deliver expected real NAV growth is dependent on access to debt facilities and equity capital markets.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to borrow additional amounts or renance on reasonable terms or that there will be a market for further shares.
Investment Returns Become Unattractive A signicantly strengthening economy may lead to higher future interest rates which could make the listed infrastructure asset class relatively less attractive to investors.
In such circumstances, it is likely that there will be an increase in ination to which the revenues and costs of the investee companies are either indexed or signicantly correlated or an increase in power prices due to greater consumption of power or both.
Both would increase the investment return and thus would provide a degree of mitigation against higher future interest rates.
Risks Affecting Investee Companies Regulation If a change in Government renewable energy policy were applied retrospectively to current operating projects including those in the Groups portfolio, this could adversely impact the market price for renewable energy or the value of the green benets earned from generating renewable energy.
The Government has evolved the regulatory framework for new projects being developed but has consistently stood behind the framework that supports operating projects as it understands the need to ensure investors can trust regulation.
Cotton Farm 06 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Risks Affecting Investee Companies continued Health and Safety and the Environment Electricity Prices The physical location, operation and maintenance of wind farms may, if inappropriately assessed and Other things being equal, a decline in the market price managed, pose health and safety risks to those of electricity would reduce the portfolio companies involved.
Wind farm operation and maintenance may revenues.
of the Groups result in bodily injury, particularly if an individual were revenues are exposed to the oating power price.
to fall from height, fall or be crushed in transit from a The Groups dividend policy has been designed to vessel to an offshore installation or be electrocuted.
If withstand significant short term variability in power an accident were to occur in relation to one or more of prices.
A longer period of power price decline would the Groups investments and if the Group were materially affect the revenues of investee companies.
deemed to be at fault, the Group could be liable for In general, independent forecasters expect UK damages or compensation to the extent such loss is wholesale power prices to rise in real terms from not covered by insurance policies.
In addition, adverse current levels, driven by higher gas and carbon prices.
publicity or reputational damage could ensue.
Wind Resource The Board reviews health and safety at each of its scheduled Board meetings and Martin McAdam serves The investee companies revenues are dependent as the appointed Health and Safety Director.
The upon wind conditions, which will vary across seasons Group engages an independent health and safety and years within statistical parameters.
The standard consultant to ensure the ongoing appropriateness of deviation of energy production is 10 per cent.
over a its health and safety policies.
Since long term variability is low, there is no significant The investee companies comply with all regulatory and diversication benefit to be gained from geographical planning conditions relating to the environment, diversication across weather systems.
including in relation to noise emissions, habitat management and waste disposal.
The Group does not have any control over the wind resource but has no debt at wind farm level and has Going Concern designed its dividend policy such that it can withstand The Groups business activities, together with the significant short term variability in production relating factors likely to affect its future development, to wind.
Before investment, the Group carries out performance and position, are set out in the extensive due diligence and relevant historical wind Investment Managers Report.
The Group faces a data is available over a substantial period of time.
The number of risks and uncertainties, as set out above.
other component of wind energy generation, a wind The financial risk management objectives and policies farms ability to turn wind into energy, is mitigated by of the Group, including exposure to price risk, interest generally purchasing wind farms with a proven rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are discussed in operating track record.
note 18 to the financial statements.
When acquiring wind farms that have only recently The Group continues to meet day-to-day liquidity entered into operation, only limited operational data is needs through its cash resources.
In these instances, the acquisition agreements with the vendors of these wind farms will include a wind As at 31 December 2018, the Group had net current energy true-up or an appropriate discount.
assets of 1.6 million 2017: 3.3 million and had cash balances of 3.4 million 2017: 5.9 million excluding Asset Life cash balances within investee companies, which are In the event that the wind turbines do not operate for sufficient to meet current obligations as they fall due.
the period of time assumed by the Group or require The major cash outows of the Group are the payment higher than expected maintenance expenditure to do of dividends and costs relating to the acquisition of so, it could have a material adverse effect on new assets, both of which are discretionary.
had 480 million 2017: 265 million of outstanding debt as at 31 December 2018.
The Group is expected The Group performs regular reviews and ensures that to continue to comply with the covenants of its maintenance is performed on all wind turbines across banking facilities going forward.
Regular maintenance ensures the wind turbines are in good working order, consistent with their expected life-spans.
07 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Strategic Report continued Going Concern continued 7, focusing on the likelihood and impact of each risk as well as any key contracts, future events or timescales The Directors have reviewed Group forecasts and that may be assigned to each key risk.
The Directors projections which cover a period of not less than also tested the Companys ability to remain viable 12 months from the date of this report, taking into under several robust downside scenarios.
account foreseeable changes in investment and trading performance, which show that the Group has As a sector-focused infrastructure fund, the Group aims sufficient financial resources.
to produce stable and inating dividends while preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio On the basis of this review, and after making due on a real basis.
The Directors believe that the Group is enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation well placed to manage its business risks successfully that the Company and the Group have adequate over both the short and long term and accordingly, the resources to continue in operational existence for the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to be able to continue in operation and to meet its adopt the going concern basis in preparing the liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least financial statements.
Longer Term Viability While the Directors have no reason to believe that the As further disclosed on page 31, the Company is a Group will not be viable over a longer period, they are member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code.
of the opinion that it would be difficult to foresee the In accordance with the AIC Code, the Directors are economic viability of any company with any degree of required to assess the prospects of the Group over a certainty for a period of time greater than 10 years.
period longer than the 12 months associated with going concern.
The Directors conducted this review for On behalf of the Board a period of 10 years, which it deemed appropriate, given the long term nature of the Groups investments which are modelled over 30 years, coupled with its long term strategic planning horizon.
Tim Ingram In considering the prospects of the Group, the Chairman Directors looked at the key risks facing both the Group 27 February 2019 and the investee companies as detailed on pages 5 to Corriegarth 08
