BEST FOR CUSTOMERS We aim to be the best inthe eyes of the customer, which meansoffering them industry-leading value, service and quality.
With our market place becoming even more dynamic and competitive, it is critical for us to deliver industry-leading value, service and quality inorder to attract customers again and again toour pubs.
We took the decision earlier in the year to invest an additional 10m in enhancing the customer offer, to improve the underlying trading in Pub Company and to help achieve our long-term goal of becoming the best pub and beer company in Britain.
The 10m investment was focused on three main areas: pricing, Acting Local and labour redeployment.
In terms of pricing, we made some key strategic investments in the value segment, focusing on known value items KVIs promotions at key trading occasions todrive footfall.
To promote Acting Local in our pubs, we gave our general managers more capacity to invest in in-pub events, such as high profile pay-per-view boxing and live music nights.
Finally, we putan emphasis on improving the effectiveness of our labour deployment at key trading occasions, including adding 10% more weekend hours into our main brands.
We are pleased that this investment has shown early signs of success, Our offering is reflected in the improvements in underlying LFL sales in the second half of the year as well as in our guest experience metrics.
delivered by the best Recent results: people and in high Improvements in guest metrics including TripAdvisor, guest satisfaction and mystery guest service scores.
quality, appealing pubs 96% of our managed pubs in England and Wales received a four orfive-star rating in food standards.
with clear and exciting Farmhouse Inns rated highest of all major pub brands for Overall Experience, Food Quality and Taste source: MCA Pub Brand Monitor.
Chef & Brewer improved its customer score by 0.2pts to 8.4 10 forFriendly Service and 0.3pts to 8.1 10 in Overall Experience source: MCA Pub Brand Monitor.
