CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures The directors present their annual report together with the audited Substantial shareholdings financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks The company has been notified of the following significant holdings ended 29 April 2018.
The company has chosen, in accordance with 3%ormore of voting rights during the year: section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to include matters of 30 April 2017 29 April 2018 strategic importance, such as future developments in the business of the group, employee engagement and details of the greenhouse gas emissions, Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited in the strategic report which otherwise would be required to be disclosed Standard Life Aberdeen plc 4.774% 5.00% in the directors report.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 16.28% 18.216% Profits and dividends Royal London Asset Management Limited 3.01% 3.01% The groups profit before tax for the period amounted to 197.5m Deutsche Bank AG 8.93% 2017:184.9m.
An interim dividend of 8.8p per share 2017: 8.8p BlackRock, Inc. 6.32% waspaid on 19 January 2018.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.4p per ordinary share 2017: 24.4p, making a total dividend for the Between 29 April 2018 and the date of this report the company has been year of 33.2p per share 2017: 33.2p.
Subject to the approval of shareholders notified of the following significant holdings 3% or more of voting rights: at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 14 September 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 August 2018.
29 April 2018 27 June 2018 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 18.216% 16.8946% Directors Deutsche Bank AG 8.93% 5.87% Details of the current directors are given on page 48 and 49.
During the year KirkDavis resigned on 31 January 2018, having served for three years BlackRock, Inc. 6.32% 6.52% as adirector and chief financial officer.
Richard Smothers was appointed tothe board as the new chief financial officer on 1 February 2018.
Share capital The board has recommended that all of the directors offer themselves for Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Richard Smothers, comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p, are set out in who will be standing for election for the first time.
note 25 to the financial statements.
The rights attaching to the shares are Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and set out in the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in interestsin long-term incentives and awards are set out in the directors relation to the companys shares and the company is not aware of any remuneration report.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Directors interests in shares A total of 58,472 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value The beneficial interests of each of the current directors and their immediate of7,309, were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: thecompanys share option schemes.
1 30 April 2017 29 April 2018 The company makes regular use of the employee benefit trust EBT to satisfy the exercise of share options and will make market purchases of Rooney Anand 599,919 616,947 the companys shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient Mike Coupe 3,690 3,690 shares to enable it to do so.
During the year 100,000 shares were Gordon Fryett 2,000 acquired by the trustees of the EBT at a cost of 564.7k.
Rob Rowley 3,000 3,000 Purchase of own shares Richard Smothers In accordance with the companys articles of association, authority was Lynne Weedall 3,051 3,051 sought at the last AGM to purchase up to 10% of the companys shares in issue as at 20 July 2017.
The authority, which has not been exercised, was Philip Yea 40,000 40,000 approved and remains exercisable until the next AGM or 7 December 2018, whichever is earlier.
The directors have again sought approval for the Note: authority to purchase the companys own shares.
Or date of appointment if later.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors Voting rights between 29 April 2018 and the date of this report.
In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one Interests in contracts vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The AGM employment contract, that was significant in relation to the groups notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect business at any time during the period.
of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares held bythecompany or by the EBT.
72 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Transfer of shares Powers of the directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws all the powers of the company, subject to its articles of association, any and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial responsibility appoint and remove directors, and recommend and declare dividends.
are required to obtain prior approval from the company to deal in the companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during close periods.
Communications with shareholders Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications Change of control should refer to the shareholders information page for further information All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating on how to register via www.
toachange of control and full details of these plans are provided in the directors remuneration report.
Outstanding options and awards would Charitable donations normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to The group continues to support community initiatives and charitable the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
causes, in particular Macmillan Cancer Support, full details of which are The groups banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the given in the corporate social responsibility section of this annual report.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a The group makes no political donations.
Certain of the companys trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
Directors and officers indemnity insurance There is one employee who, on a change of control of the company The group has taken out insurance to indemnify the directors of the company resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled to against third party proceedings whilst serving on the board of the company compensation for loss of office.
However, in the context of the company and of any subsidiary.
This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who as a whole, this agreement is fide minimis.
serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Articles of association The companys articles of association may only be amended by special Financial instruments resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
The groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
Appointment and replacement of directors The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five nor more Post balance sheet events than twelve.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary Details of events occurring after the year end are set out in note 31 resolution or by the board of directors.
A director appointed by the board tothefinancial statements.
of directors holds office until the next AGM, and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information The articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who were elected, to the auditor or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving current year shall retire from office and may stand for re-election.
In practice the directors report are listed on pages 48 and 49.
Having made enquiries directors submit themselves for annual re-election in accordance with of fellow directors and of the companys auditor, each of these directors theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
confirms that: The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information been given, remove any director from office.
relevant to the preparation of their report of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Any director automatically ceases to be a director if i they give the company a written notice of resignation, ii they give the company a written offer each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of the other expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and directors remove them from office by notice in writing served upon them, to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
iv they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made in respect Going concern of them, v a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, vi they are future development, performance and position, are set out in the chief prohibited from being a director by law or vii they are absent from executives review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, board meetings for six months without leave and the other directors liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial resolve that their office should be vacated.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures continued Going concern continued The directors are of the opinion that the groups forecast and projections, which take account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and its stress testing to take account of severe but plausible shocks to the business show that the group should be able to operate within its current borrowing facilities and comply with its financing covenants.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation thatthe company and the group have adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office andaresolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys auditor will beproposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 12.00pm on Friday 7 September 2018 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board Lindsay Keswick Company secretary 27 June 2018 74 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018
