STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model DELIVERING LONG-TERM GROWTH AND RETURNS Our business model Leading UK pub Large, category Wellinvested Experienced Strong financial companyandbrewer leadingbrands estate managementteam management PUB COMPANY Pub Partners Brewing & Brands Our Pub Company consists of both food-focused Pub Partners is responsible for operating our Our Brewing & Brands division operates destination pubs and restaurants and tenanted, leased and franchised pubs and aims twobreweries, one in Bury St Edmunds community-focused local pubs.
Theprincipal to ensure that each pub has the right licensee andthe other in Dunbar, which brew our core revenue streams are food anddrink available to operate it, on the right agreement and with portfolio of ales, which are complemented by for consumption on our premises.
Revenue in our Pub Partners an innovative range of craft ales.
We generate further revenue from our accommodation business of 1,110 pubs is principally achieved revenue in this division from the sale and offer on some sites, and a number of our sites through the supply of beer and other drinks distribution of ales produced by us in our own have gaming machines.
The success of our Pub toour licensees and the rent that they pay us breweries, and from the sale and distribution Company is driven by our customers desire for the pub and our support.
We also derive of drinks both alcoholic and non-alcoholic toeat and drink outside of their homes and asmall portion of revenue from gaming produced by third parties.
As well as to our isspecifically determined by the number of machines.
Although we invest in this business internal customers in the other divisions, we customers we attract and the amount that they to ensure that we can offer prospective also sell our ales to other pub companies and spend with us.
Pub Company 1,745 pubs is lessees the best pubs the cash generated to individual free trade customers.
A further the key growth driver for the group and in isprincipally reinvested into Pub Company.
important revenue stream is the sale of our thisdivision we typically own and operate own-brewed ales to supermarkets and other thepubs.
This division is a key focus area for retail outlets and, increasingly, in the growth and we will continue to invest the cash exportmarket.
generated from the group in our people and our pubs to ensure that Pub Company continues to gain share of the UK eating anddrinking outmarket.
Operational review page 20 Operational review page 24 Operational review page 26 An integrated business model In addition to driving growth in Pub Company through enhanced investment, further benefits of our integrated business model include the flexibility to transfer pubs between Pub Company and Pub Partners and ensure that we match each pub with the best operating model.
Both Pub Company and Pub Partners are customers of Brewing & Brands, increasing the distribution of our sales.
Underpinning our business model is a financial strategy to maximise the strength, flexibility and efficiency of our balance sheet, with the aim of supporting growth through investment in our estate and selectively acquiring new sites, while maintaining our long-term progressive dividend policy.
12 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Value created Value shared with GROUP RETURN Customers ON INVESTMENT We place customers at the heart of what wedo, aiming for industry-leading value, service 25.4% 2,900 and quality and regularly benchmarking against PUBS, RESTAURANTS the best in class.
ANDHOTELS GROUP RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Employees We employ around 39,000 people and work 8.5% hard to make sure that every member of our 39,000 team gets the opportunity to learn and progress.
EMPLOYEES We maintain high employee engagement scores and were pleased to receive awards from the FREE CASH FLOW National Apprenticeship Service, East of England Apprenticeship Awards and the Training Journal in recognition of our investment in apprentices.
89.9m Shareholders ADJUSTED BASIC Greene King has a long-term track record of EARNINGS PER SHARE earnings growth, a disciplined approach to capital 33.2p management and strong cash flow generation DIVIDEND PER SHARE supporting an attractive and sustainable dividend.
62.7p Communities INVESTED IN TRAINING Our communities support includes: our ANDDEVELOPMENT partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support, 4m forwhich we have raised over 4m: our sponsorship of Pub is the Hub: and our scheme RAISED FOR MACMILLAN 3m with The Princes Trust, offering unemployed CANCER SUPPORT young people an opportunity to work and gain skills in the leisure sectors.
TOTAL DIVERSION OF WASTEFROMLANDFILL Environment 98% Greene King is committed to operating its business in a sustainable way and was the first Zero pub company to apply for a licence to self-supply WASTE TO LANDFILL water, enabling us to reduce water usage in our BY2020PLEDGE business.
We were the first major pub company in the UK to pledge that by 2020 we will send zero waste to landfill.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 13
