Operational review continued AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING 1,140 -4.7% PUB PARTNERS REVENUE Pub Partners is responsible for operating our tenanted, 193.9m -2.5% leased and franchised pubs across Britain and aims to be the 1,2 EBITDA preferred partner forthe best operators in the industry.
101.3m -1.7% OUR AGREEMENTS: 1,2 OPERATING PROFIT Standard tenancy agreement 91.4m -1.5% Standard lease agreement 1,2 OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN Franchise lease 47.1% 0.4%pts Local Hero franchise-style agreement Turnover tenancy 1,2 AVERAGE EBITDA PER PUB Turnover lease 88.9k 3.1% Retail ready agreement 1.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional Joint venture agreement and non-underlying items.
An explanation of the groups use of alternative performance measures APMs, including definitions and reconciliations, is included in the glossary on page128.
STRATEGIC REPORT 14% of Pub Partners pubs buy food through the Greene King supply chain In Pub Partners we have a high quality portfolio of 1,100 mainly drink-led pubs.
It generates significant cash for the group, adds purchasing scale, enhances the Greene King brand and provides flexibility in our estate planning.
Pub Partners revenue was down 2.5% to 193.9m due to the 4.7% decrease we have an absolute focus in the average number of pubs trading.
Rental income grew and offset a decline in LFL beer volumes.
Operating profit was down 1.5% but operating on helping our tenants profit margin was up 0.4%pts at 47.1% benefiting from estate optimisation, an increase in turnover agreements and cost savings initiatives.
grow sustainable We have a clear aim to be the preferred partner for the best independent operators in the market and therefore have an absolute focus on helping successful businesses.
our tenants grow sustainable, successful businesses.
This starts with maintaining the best tenanted, leased and franchised pub estate.
We have an excellent quality Pub Partners estate which we have Our support to licensees in driving footfall and maximising profit has resulted achieved through active management of the portfolio and disciplined in average EBITDA per pub of 88.9k this year, an increase of 3.1%.
We sold 50 sites in the Pub Partners portfolio this year, providing 14% of Pub Partners pubs with food through the Greene King raising 35m in disposals proceeds, and we invested 26m in the core Pub supply chain and have 142 pubs signed up to our digital services package Partners estate.
In addition, the estate benefited from the internal transfer for online purchasing.
In addition, 190 of our operators currently use our of five managed sites from Pub Company.
Sports Club package, delivering customer promotions around sports events.
We then provide our operators with the right agreement for them.
While Finally, investment in training, for both the licensees and the support our most common agreement is our traditional tenancy agreement, we also system, is also critical to the success of Pub Partners.
Over 2,000 delegates have a number of alternatives to suit particular licensees and particular attended training programmes over the year, driving a further improvement pubs.
These include commercial free-of-tie leases, tied leases, franchises in the average term of our licensees to five years and 11 months.
Last year and an increasing number of turnover agreements.
The range and flexibility Yvonne Fraser was named business development manager BDM of the ofour agreements has enabled us to agree new terms in response to the year at the Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers Awards, becoming majority of market rent only MRO requests and we have just four MRO the fourth winner from Pub Partners in the last five years of this award, agreements in place as a result.
and reflecting our ongoing commitment to investment in our BDMs.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 25
