Focus area continued BEST FOR TEAM Our ambition is for Greene King to be a great we want to create place to work for our 39,000 employees.
an environment We want to create an environment where our team members can reach their full potential and to do this it is important we are aware where our team ofand care for our teams wellbeing and mental health.
We have donea number of things this year to promote wellbeing.
members can reach We ran an extensive Wellbeing Week for our office and field-based teams, which was designed to promote health awareness at work their full potential.
It included workshops, challenges, health promotion activities, mental health webinars, a mindfulness mural, advice from wellness experts and even free fresh fruit.
We also provided a Know Your Numbers mini health check, where employees could have their blood cholesterol, blood glucose, blood pressure and body mass checked.
We also recognise the importance of raising the awareness of mental health.
Beyond the Wellbeing Week, we trained our Pub Company HR teams in mental health awareness to help them to support our team members in our pubs.
Our new training portal, TAP, includes training for wellbeing.
This training is available to all our employees and includes focus areas on being active, healthy eating, workplace hygiene and mental health at work.
All of our team members have access to an Employee Assistance programmes EAP which provides information, advice, training and services to help them deal with events and issues in their work and personal lives, such as legal advice to help with family health issues.
We raised awareness of our EAP this year through video content which we delivered through our wellbeing experts and via webinars to maximise exposure and promotion of the programme to all team members.
6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 BEST FOR COMMUNITIES Our pubs play an important role in their local communities, by employing local people, raising funds for charity and serving ourcustomers.
This year, we were proud to announce that we have now raised 4mfor Macmillan Cancer Support thanks to the incredible efforts of our teams and customers.
One of the ways we raised money was through our participation in the Lord Mayors Show inLondon.
The Lord Mayors Show, which dates back to 1215, is a magnificent procession for the newly elected Lord Mayor of the City of London to Westminster and we were delighted to be part of such a historic event.
The Greene King float joined 70 other organisations and 20 military and civilian bands and our theme was Bringing our iconic London pubs to life.
Greene King is Londons biggest pub company and we are privileged to have some of the most historic and characterful pubs in the city, so we decorated the float with pub signs and our team members brought them to life with enthusiasm by dressing up asthe character of their pub.
Macmillan joined us for the procession to help us to create a real carnival atmosphere for those watching on the streets of London.
All of our We have now raised London pubs fundraised during the weekend and we donated money from every fish and chips meal we sold to Macmillan.
