GREENCOAT U K W I N D Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report, together Major Interests in Shares with the consolidated financial statements of significant shareholdings as at 15 February 2019 are Greencoat UK Wind PLC for the year to 31 December detailed below.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 Ordinary to 34 forms part of this report.
shares held % 15 February Details of the Directors who held ofce during the year Shareholder 2019 and as at the date of this report are given on pages 22 to 24.
Newton Investment Management 8.88 Investec Wealth & Investment 5.96 Capital Structure Legal & General Investment Management 4.91 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which FIL Investment International 4.70 carry no rights to xed income.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on Insight Investment Management 4.01 a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all Rathbones Investment Management 3.77 of its liabilities, the shareholders are entitled to all of Baillie Gifford & Co 3.47 the surplus assets of the Company.
Aviva Investors 3.44 Shareholders will be entitled to attend and vote at all general meetings of the Company and, on a poll, to significant shareholdings as at 31 December 2018 are one vote for each ordinary share held.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares Ordinary The current authority of the Company to make market shares held % purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
of its issued share 31 December capital expires at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Shareholder 2018 Special resolution 14 will be proposed at the Newton Investment Management 9.19 forthcoming AGM seeking renewal of such authority Investec Wealth & Investment 5.90 until the next AGM or 30 June 2020, whichever is earlier.
The price paid for the shares will not be less Legal & General Investment Management 4.90 than the nominal value or more than the maximum FIL Investment International 4.48 amount permitted to be paid in accordance with the Insight Investment Management 4.01 rules of the UK Listing Authority in force at the date of Rathbones Investment Management 3.63 purchase.
This power will be exercised only if, in the opinion of the Directors, a repurchase would be in the Baillie Gifford & Co 3.44 best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Any shares Aviva Investors 3.14 repurchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held in treasury at the discretion of the Board for future resale in appropriate market Companies Act 2006 Disclosures conditions.
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The Directors believe that the renewal of the Reports Regulations 2008 the Directors disclose the Companys authority to purchase shares, as detailed following information: above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote the Companys capital structure is detailed in note in favour of special resolution 14.
15 to the financial statements and all shareholders have the same voting rights in respect of the share The Directors also recommend shareholders to vote in capital of the Company.
There are no restrictions favour of resolutions 12 and 13, which renew their on voting rights that the Company is aware of, nor authority to allot equity securities for the purpose of any agreement between holders of securities that satisfying the Companys obligations to pay the equity result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or element of the Investment Managers fee, and also on voting rights: their authority to allot equity securities for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 or by way of a sale of treasury shares.
