Governance report Chairmans Introduction The other key development to emerge from the 2018 Code was the requirement for the Board to focus on its leadership, ensuring We have enjoyed that the Companys purpose, values and strategy are aligned with its culture.
a period of stability Our purpose forms an integral heading to our strategy: it is making good tasting, freshly prepared food accessible on the Board to everyone.
This is in turn is reflected in our vision: To be the customers favourite for food-on-the-go.
Our whole business strategy, described in the strategic report on pages 1 to 39, underpins this purpose and vision.
Dear Shareholder Our culture and values deserve specific mention.
In 2018, we I am pleased to introduce our governance report for 2018, embarked upon a broad review of our culture, engaging with which follows on pages 43 to 50. our colleagues across the organisation, as we began to work on a more detailed understanding of how our culture works: as We have seen some significant governance developments a Board we all believe that there is a very special culture within in 2018, culminating in the revised UK Corporate Governance Greggs, borne of the family values instilled into the business Code the 2018 Code, which was issued in July.
Perhaps the by our founders.
In recent years, we have been taking some main area of focus has been around directors duties under significant decisions around centralisation of our operations and, s172 Companies Act 2006, which although it has been law for more recently, our supply chain.
In some instances, these have many years, was brought into sharp focus as a result of certain led to factory closures and some job losses, whilst at the same corporate failures.
time continuing to grow the business organically.
The Board is always keen to ensure that these activities do not endanger Although the new requirements of the 2018 Code have only the culture in a rapidly-changing and competitive market place.
just started to apply, we have borne them in mind in preparing We asked our employees for their thoughts as part of our annual this report, and we have included a first attempt, on a voluntary Employee Opinion Survey, and we will be undertaking further basis, at the more formal reporting requirements in relation to work during 2019, which commenced with a session at our s172 see stakeholder engagement section page 48.
Otherwise Annual Management Conference held in January.
this report has been prepared to reflect the April 2016 version of the Corporate Governance Code, with which we were compliant Insofar as measures of culture and, in particular, colleague across the year.
engagement are concerned, we will be building on what we believe are firm foundations: some 93 per cent of our 23,000 colleagues took time to respond to our survey, and indicated an engagement level of 82 per cent.
Towards the end of the year, we undertook our second  Board evaluation, supported as before by NJMD Corporate Services Limited.
That report has captured the essence of Greggs and how we operate, in noting that the value and culture currently displayed by the Board, as part of the inherent culture and heritage of the Company, contributes to an open and honest environment which is encouraged by the [Governance] Code.
We noted the respect and enthusiasm of all of the interviewees for the culture of the Company and their recognition of its beneficial effect on successful business operations.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to our Annual General Meeting.
Ian Durant Chairman 7 March 2019 G Gr re eg gg gs p s pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 42 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts The remainder of this corporate governance report, together with the reports of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees on pages 51 to 72, explains how our governance framework operates and how we oversee both the performance of the Company and also the general understanding and application of the values for which Greggs is known.
With the exception of Allison Kirkby, all of the Directors will be seeking re-election at our Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday 21 May 2019.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, and throughout 2018 was a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The April 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code applied throughout 2018.
This governance report, together with information contained elsewhere within the Directors report, describes how the relevant principles and provisions of the Code were applied in the year.
For the current financial year, which commenced on 30 December 2018, the Company will be applying the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in July 2018 and effective from 1 January 2019 the 2018 Code.
The Board confirms that it was compliant with the Code throughout the year, and all of the policies and terms of reference referred to in this report are available on the corporate website at: http: corporate.
The Board Effectiveness The Chairman chairs the Nominations Committee whose primary function is to consider the blend of skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
This includes independent and objective experience of food retailing and manufacturing, finance, marketing, property and corporate finance to complement the existing skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews strategy, financial performance against key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst executive responsibility for running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined prior to adoption.
The main stakeholder activities of the Board are described in the stakeholder engagement section on page 48.
The Board schedules an agreed number of meetings per year, and meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that the individual could have attended.
Meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nominations Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 8 4 2 2 Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton Helena Ganczakowski Allison Kirkby Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet together formally twice each year and from time to time, as required.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Governance report continued The Board continued Board modus operandi The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific Schedule of Matters Reserved policy which is reviewed and approved annually, and ensures that the Board is supplied, in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
All Directors take decisions objectively and in the interests of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
This is done using an OGSM model, whereby the key objectives for the year are agreed at a strategy meeting held in June of the preceding year, and are then reported upon across the year by the Chief Executive and members of the Operating Board with responsibility for particular objectives.
All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities outside the Company.
The Board continued its practice introduced in 2017 of making additional operating information available to Non-Executive Directors in the expectation that this adds further colour to the debate and discussion at Board meetings.
Board papers include a summary of activity by each Operating Board Director, together with a fuller and more detailed report attached, should Non-Executive Directors wish to explore further any matter being reported.
Members of the Operating Board are invited to attend Board meetings on a rolling rota in order to participate in the Boards discussion on business performance and key issues.
This process also affords senior managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
During the year, the Board received regular updates including: Developments on the two main strategic projects, being the implementation of SAP, and the 100 million investment in our supply chain.
Customer insight, competitor activity, marketing and category plans.
Wage negotiations and people issues.
Food safety and health and safety.
The Board sets a Rolling Agenda, which facilitates agenda planning for scheduled meetings across the year.
In this way the Board monitors its activities and ensures that it is operating effectively.
Diversity The Board continues to support the development of all colleagues and specifically continues to support women through to the highest levels of our organisation.
Members of the Board are actively participating in our Womens Development Programme sharing their knowledge and experiences with participants.
Our gender reporting is now contained in page 34 of the strategic report.
We continue to make progress and once again were recognised by the Hampton Alexander Review published in November 2018 as a top 10 FTSE 250 Company for Women on boards and in Leadership.
In December 2018, our Chief Executive was appointed as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in recognition of this work in promoting the interest of Women and Equality.
Succession and development The Board is satisfied that a process is in place for orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Chief Executive meets with the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in order that succession and development plans can be drawn up for Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
During 2018, this included a review of remaining terms of office for Non-Executive Directors, and the formulation of a rolling succession plan.
Further detail is set out on page 45 under the Nominations Committee section of this report.
All Directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all Directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process, and in 2018 the evaluation was facilitated by Nigel Davies of NJMD Corporate Services Limited.
Mr Davies had conducted the previous  evaluation carried out in 2015.
As a key part of the evaluation process, the Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least annually without the Executive Directors present, and also has one-to-one sessions with every member of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Election and re-election of Directors The Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, all of the Non-Executive Directors who will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and are free from any business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Board Committees The Board delegates some of its activities to the following Committees, each of which has written terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to and is generally in attendance at each of these Committees, and each of the Committees is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner.
The Committee met four times in the year, and a fuller report on its activities is set out on pages 51 to 56.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips.
The Chief Executive and the People Director have a standing invitation to attend the Remuneration Committee.
The Finance Director is also invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings from time to time to help the Remuneration Committee determine and measure and monitor performance against set targets.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee is absolutely clear that Executives are required to step out of the meeting from time to time to enable the Committee to discuss key elements of remuneration in closed session.
The Committees main duties which it discharged during the year are detailed within the Directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 57 to 72 of this annual report.
Shareholders approved the current remuneration policy at the meeting held on 19 May 2017, and this is included on pages 60 to 64 for the sake of expediency.
The Chairmans fees are reviewed annually and set by the Executive Directors, following the general policy of everyone in the Company receiving the same basic level of pay award.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees main functions which it discharged during the year are to: review the balance and constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether Directors should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the process for setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that specification and making recommendations to the Board on the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee selects a short list and conducts interviews.
The final candidate is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Following an informal selection process conducted in 2018, the Nominations Committee appointed JCA Heidrick Struggles JCA to assist with succession planning and identification of potential Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, the Nominations Committee developed, debated and agreed a Board succession plan.
The first action identified was to plan for the need to appoint a successor to Allison Kirkby as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair.
Allisons departure was announced on 7 March 2019, and Allison will not offer herself for re-election as a Director at the Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2019, having served six years on the Board.
A brief for the role was developed by the Committee which takes account of the expected strategy and needs of the business to ensure the Board has ongoing access to a good mix and diversity of skills and background.
The recruitment is being led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and the Nomination Committee was advised by JCA.
Several candidates were considered from a short list prepared from a longer list which had been discussed with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Visits for shortlisted candidates will be arranged to head office, shops and a manufacturing unit.
Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an in-depth tailored induction process.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, this includes meeting with all members of the Operating Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices, and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which contains key information and policies that are relevant to the position.
For new Executive Directors, and Non-Executive Directors for whom the appointment is their first to a UK-listed Company, the induction includes details of the legal duties and obligations of being a Director of the Company.
New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to present at a Board meeting formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Governance report continued Risk management Details of the Companys principal risks and the management of them are set out within the strategic report, on pages 35 and 36.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Relations with shareholders The Board ensures that there is effective communication with individual and institutional shareholders through the announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the posting of results on the Companys website.
The Board receives reports on any comments received from shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out extensive engagement with institutional shareholders and market analysts, either meeting them as part of Company presentations and briefings, individual meetings or on telephone calls.
The Chairman adopts an ongoing policy of arranging to meet with major shareholders, and the Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend external meetings and events which provide them with the opportunity to engage generally with the investment community.
The Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and comments by analysts and shareholders in order to maintain an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
The Board reviews at each meeting an analysis of the share register, noting all significant changes.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is well attended, and a short presentation of business performance is given to attendees by the Chief Executive although no non-public sensitive information is shared.
The Chairman and the Chairs of the Board Committees are available to answer any issues raised and any newly-appointed Directors being available to meet shareholders.
During informal sessions both before and after the meeting, the Chairman, and all Directors are available to meet with any of the 80 or so individual private shareholders who are in attendance.
This is in addition to the opportunity given to shareholders to ask questions of the Board during the formal meeting, which session is always welcomed by those in attendance.
In 2018, information stalls were set up at the entrance to the meeting informing shareholders of the Companys progress on key social responsibility topics.
At each AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
All resolutions were strongly supported by shareholders, and were determined by poll, in accordance with best practice.
The Senior Independent Director, Sandra Turner, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact would not be appropriate.
The Company provides on its website, www.
co. uk, a significant amount of information both about its customer offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as detailed information on the governance arrangements.
Substantial shareholdings At 7 March 2019 the only notified holdings of substantial voting rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which may have altered since the date of such notification, without any requirement for the Company to have been informed were: Percentage of Number of shares held issued share capital MFS Investment Management 10,029,195 9.915% Standard Life Aberdeen plc 5,765,652 5.700% Kames Capital plc 3,073,582 3.038% Norges Bank 3,035,673 3.001% Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Accountability, audit and going concern The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In order to assist the Board to comply with the requirements within the Governance Code, each year the Audit Committee is requested to undertake an assessment of the annual report and to make a recommendation to the Board.
This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committees terms of reference, which are available at: https: corporate.
The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed review that has been undertaken by the Head of Business Assurance and reviewing the annual report as a whole to confirm that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
In considering the advice of the Audit Committee, and having reviewed the annual report including the contents of the strategic report on pages 1 to 39, together with the statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of accounts is given on page 73.
A statement of auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor on pages 78 and 79.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts see basis of preparation on page 85.
The Boards viability statement made in accordance with Code provision C. 2.2 can be found on page 37.
Policies Freedom of association At Greggs, we recognise the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Whilst we do not have a formal freedom of association policy, the Company encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices to become, and remain, members of a union.
Bribery and corruption Greggs has an anti-bribery and corruption policy which applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, seeking or acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person or Company by acting on its behalf, in order to gain an advantage in an unethical way.
Business conduct We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical behaviour that are expected of all employees.
All graded managers, and members of the procurement department, are required to make an annual confirmation of their compliance with the policy.
Whistle-blowing Our whistle-blowing policy creates an environment where employees are able to raise concerns without fear of disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any disclosure.
Any matters raised are treated in confidence and an independent review will be undertaken where it is appropriate.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is the designated first point of contact for any concerns which cannot be addressed through normal management processes.
Political donations Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or contributions.
This includes financial and in-kind contributions made by the Company.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as they are individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Governance report continued Stakeholder engagement This statement is intended by the Directors to set out how they have approached and met their responsibilities under s172 of Companies Act 2006 in the financial period ending 29 December 2018.
It is in response to the obligations as set out in the Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, and the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018, and as such forms part of the strategic report of the Companys annual report and accounts.
As the new reporting requirements became clearer, the Directors considered a stakeholder analysis, using the Power Interest model, and the outputs from this review will set the agenda for ongoing engagement in 2019, focusing on with whom Directors should engage and communicate, either collectively or individually, and how feedback, general or specific, will be considered during the decision-making process.
Stakeholders identified during the mapping exercise included our 23,000 colleagues, agency workers and consultants, suppliers of both goods and services, shareholders both institutional and retail, customers, City analysts, the financial and consumer press, the communities in which our shops are located, the communities that benefit from moneys donated to the Greggs Foundation and other charitable causes, the Government and NGOs.
The following are some examples of the interactions that have taken place in 2018.
Shop and bakery visits Each year the Board meets at a production location.
In 2018, the Board met in Leeds, whilst the production centre was undergoing significant building works with the installation of an automated cake line and the building of a new high-care facility.
This walkaround allowed Directors to engage with colleagues about the changes and the difficulties they were having to overcome to ensure that production could continue amidst the works.
Additionally, the Directors visited six stores in Leeds city centre, led by the Retail Operations Manager and the Area Manager for the region.
Directors were able to speak with shop colleagues and customers about the shop environment and sales generally.
Individually, several of the Non-Executive Directors have spent time with the Retail Operations Director or with a Head of Retail visiting shops in different parts of the country, looking at product range and speaking with shop teams.
Supply chain restructuring programme meetings and visit There was a significant amount of change in our bakeries during 2018.
There were new automated production lines brought onstream in Leeds, Gosforth and Manchester.
Peter McPhillips, whose executive career was focused around food production, attended these sites during the change process, and also attended meetings of the Supply Chain Leadership Team as it effected the change programme.
AGM engagement Our AGM is always well attended.
There are generally some 80 attendees, being mainly private shareholders.
The Board mingles with attendees before the meeting, and during a sit down Greggs buffet lunch following the meeting.
The question and answer session during the AGM covers a variety of subjects and generally lasts for 45 minutes to one hour.
Audit Committee Chair engagement Having been identified as an opportunity during the 2017 Board Evaluation, Allison Kirkby, Audit Committee Chair, attended a meeting of the Risk Committee.
This Committee is a management Committee, and is attended by both Executive Directors and all members of the Operating Board, along with the Heads of Financial Reporting, Technical, Business Assurance, Procurement, the Health & Safety Manager and the Risk Manager.
This provided Allison with the opportunity to understand the detailed review of risk undertaken by management and the mitigations in place and under development.
Allison also regularly meets with the Audit Partner from KPMG, and with members of the Finance team and Head of Business Assurance ahead of Audit Committee meetings.
2019 plan During 2019, stakeholder sessions that Non-Executive Directors are planning to attend include: Significant shareholders.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Directors and their interests The names of the Directors in office during the year, together with their relevant interests in the share capital of the Company at 30 December 2017 and 29 December 2018, are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 71.
Details of the Directors share options are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 70.
7.1 of the Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board at the AGM, and will all offer themselves for re-election, apart from Allison Kirkby, who steps down from the Board at the close of the AGM to be held on 21 May 2019.
The Nominations Committee has considered the appropriateness and suitability of each Director standing for re-election and has recommended to the Board that each individual should be put forward for re-election.
Directors indemnities and conflicts As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their duties, powers or responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
The indemnities do not apply in situations where the relevant Director has been guilty of fraud or wilful misconduct.
Under the authority granted to them in the Companys articles of association, the Board has considered carefully any situation declared by any Director pursuant to which they have or might have a conflict of interest and, where it considers it appropriate to do so, has authorised the continuation of that situation.
In exercising its authority, the Directors have had regard to their statutory and other duties to the Company.
Additional information The information set out within the governance report in pages 43 to 50 forms part of the Directors report.
Greenhouse gas emissions: All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the non-financial KPIs on page 34.
Authority to purchase shares At the AGM on 9 May 2018, the shareholders passed a resolution authorising the purchase by the Company of its own shares to a maximum of 10,350,000 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
That authority had not been used as at 29 December 2018.
The authority remains in force until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019 or 14 August 2019, whichever is the earlier.
It is the Boards intention to seek approval at the 2019 AGM for the renewal of this authority.
Takeover directive information Following the implementation of the European Directive on Takeover Bids by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose certain additional information in the Directors report.
This information is set out below: the Company has one class of share in issue being ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
As at 7 March 2019, there were 101,155,901 such ordinary shares in issue.
There are no shares in the Company that grant the holder special rights with regard to the control of the Company: at general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote only and, in the case of a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share in the capital of the Company held by him or her: the Companys articles of association set out the circumstances in which shares may become disenfranchised.
No shareholder is entitled, unless the Directors otherwise determine, in respect of any share held by him or her to be present or vote at a general meeting either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to meetings of the Company in respect of that share in certain circumstances if any call or other sum is payable and remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in default in complying with a duly served notice under section 793 1 of the CA 2006 or if any shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice requiring him or her to provide a written statement stating he or she is the beneficial owner of the shares: a notice convening a general meeting can contain a statement that a shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting unless his or her name is entered on the register of members of the Company at a specific time not more than 48 hours before the meeting and if a shareholders name is not so entered he or she is not entitled to attend and vote: under the Companys articles of association the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certified form in certain circumstances where the Company has a lien on the share provided that the Directors do not exercise their discretion so as to prevent dealings in partly paid shares from taking place on an open and proper basis, where a shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice under section 793 1 CA 2006 or if a transfer of a share is in favour of more than four persons jointly.
In addition, the Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in respect of only one class of share and is deposited at the address at which the register of members of the Company is held or at such other place as the Directors may determine accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonable require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
In respect of shares held in uncertificated form the Directors may only refuse to register transfers in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended from time to time : Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Governance report continued Takeover directive information continued under the Companys code on dealings in securities in the Company, persons discharging managerial responsibilities and some other senior executives may in certain circumstances be restricted as to when they can transfer shares in the Company: there are no agreements between shareholders known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights: details of significant holders of the Company shares are set out on page 46: where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant: the Companys articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders: the Companys articles of association set out how Directors are appointed and replaced.
Directors can be appointed by the Board or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
At each AGM, any Director appointed by the Board since the last AGM must retire from office but is eligible for election by the shareholders.
Furthermore, the Board has resolved that, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 revision provision B.
7.1, all the Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Under the CA 2006 and the Companys articles of association, a Director can be removed from office by the shareholders in a general meeting: the Companys articles of association set out the powers of the Directors.
The business of the Company is to be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company and do on behalf of the Company all such acts as may be exercised and done by the Company and are not by any relevant statutes or the Companys articles of association required to be exercised or done by the Company in general meeting, subject to the provisions of any relevant statutes and the Companys articles of association and to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Company by special resolution: under the CA 2006 and the Companys articles of association, the Directors powers include the power to allot and buyback shares in the Company.
At each AGM, resolutions are proposed granting and setting limits on these powers: the Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change in control of the Company, following a takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Details of the Directors service agreements and terms of appointment are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 62 and 63.
However, provisions in the employee share plans operated by the Company may allow options to be exercised on a takeover.
Employees Applications for employment of disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff being disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Company continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications and good relations with employees.
A weekly bulletin is sent to all shop staff and quarterly bulletin to all bakery employees.
Significant relationships The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and, therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed.
By order of the Board Jonathan D Jowett Company Secretary Greggs plc CRN 502851 Greggs House Quorum Business Park Benton Lane Newcastle upon Tyne NE12 8BU 7 March 2019 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50
