Our strategy Our vision is to become the customers favourite for food-on-the-go Our strategic plan has four pillars and our commitment to having a positive impact on peoples lives is built into them all.
Strategic pillar Great tasting, freshly prepared food We work hard to make sure our range meets our customers needs and that, while our classic favourites cant be beaten, there is always something new to excite them.
We offer great value at every time of the day and care about where our ingredients come from.
Best customer experience We provide customers with fast and friendly service, fixing issues without a fuss and enjoy making every day a great day by rewarding them for their loyalty, and sharing our success with the communities that we serve.
We are taking our modern shops to where our customers want them to be, extending trading hours and ultimately becoming more and more convenient alongside their busy lives.
Competitive supply chain We stand out from the crowd because we make great quality bakery products ourselves and love to create new things that will excite customers.
We are always looking for ways to be more efficient and to minimise our impact on the environment, while supporting shop growth.
First class support teams We have well-trained people providing great service to their colleagues and ultimately our customers, and are committed to providing our teams with a great place to work by investing in first class systems and living up to Greggs values.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Were always striving to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
Read more on our Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 38 and 39.
Read more on our Key performance indicators on pages 30 to 34.
Progress made in 2018 Plans for 2019 We continued to grow our strategic categories, We have another strong pipeline which now account for 36 per cent of sales and reinforced of new product developments our reputation for great value, by expanding our breakfast and upgrades, with many deal and introducing a new 2 pizza slice drink offer opportunities to improve our after 4pm.
Our first vegan-friendly product, the Mexican product offer and further develop Bean Wrap, was well received alongside our expanding our position in the  range, encouraging more customers to go market.
As our food-on-the-go refit programme neared completion, We will increase shop numbers we continued to open new shops in exciting high-profile and expect to open 100 new transport locations.
We built on the success of Greggs shops, including 50 with franchise Rewards to understand how we can serve our customers partners.
We will continue to better through the use of digital technology, by trialling develop our digital vision for `Click and Collect in Manchester and working with Deliveroo Greggs, taking our shopping to test home delivery in Birmingham, Newcastle, Bristol environments and customer and London.
The development of our B2C and B2B gifting experiences to the next level.
channels are creating new ways for customers to shop with us.
We invested record amounts in our supply chain during We will complete the a peak year of activity, which has focused on the creation manufacturing programme of Centres of Excellence in Newcastle, Manchester of activity, creating Centres of and Leeds.
The quality of production and service from Excellence in Enfield, Glasgow our new manufacturing lines has been excellent, despite and Treforest and build our unprecedented levels of upheaval as we implemented second dedicated Distribution the changes.
Centre in Amesbury, to support shop growth in the south of England.
During a peak year of investment, the human resource and Its another big year in our estate management modules of our integrated SAP solution major process and systems were implemented, together with enhanced processes to investment programme, with manage our product ranging and availability.
the replacement of our payroll system taking priority in the first half, alongside which we will be rolling out the SAP solution for our supply chain.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
