Board of Directors and Secretary Name & Ian Durant Roger Whiteside OBE Richard Hutton FCA Helena Ganczakowski job title Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Ian has a background in Roger began his career at Richard qualified as a Chartered Helena worked for Unilever Biography international finance and Marks and Spencer where Accountant with KPMG and for 23 years and held commercial management, he spent 20 years, ultimately gained career experience with senior positions in brand with experience in the becoming head of its food Procter and Gamble before joining management and marketing, retail, property, hotels and business.
He was then one of Greggs in 1998. including UK Marketing transport sectors.
His career the founding team of Ocado, Director and ultimately includes leadership roles with serving as Joint MD from Head of Global Agencies.
the retail division of Hanson 2000 to 2004.
From 2004 to Helena has a PhD in and Jardine Matheson, 2007 Roger led a successful Engineering from the Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm turnaround as Chief Executive University of Cambridge.
International, Thistle Hotels of the Thresher Group and SeaContainers and as off-licence chain before Finance Director of Liberty joining Punch Taverns, International.
Ian is an ultimately becoming Chief experienced non-executive Executive.
Roger was director of UK-listed appointed as Chief Executive companies, having previously of Greggs on 4 February served on the Boards of 2013, and awarded an OBE Westbury, Home Retail for services to Women and Group and Greene King.
Equality in the 2019 New He was Chairman of Capital Year Honours List.
and Counties Properties plc between 2010 and 2018.
5 October 2011 17 March 2008 13 March 2006 2 January 2014 Appointed since Non-Executive Director until 3 February 2013 Yes Not applicable Not applicable Yes Independent Chairman of DFS Furniture plc.
Member of the Womens Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director External Business Council.
Chair of the Audit Committee of Croda International Plc Trustee of Richmond Parish appointments of The Lakes Distillery Company and also owner and manager of Lands Charity Non-Executive Director plc.
Trustee Director of Business a consulting business working of Card Factory plc.
Trustee of at a global level Greggs Foundation.
Trustee with multi-national food of The Alnwick Garden Trust.
businesses, helping them to develop and implement strategies.
Chair of Nominations Not applicable Not applicable Audit, Remuneration and Committee Committee Nominations Committee membership member Favourite Greggs snack Board diversity Our Board brings a balance of relevant backgrounds and gender to their discussions.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Name & Allison Kirkby Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Jonathan Jowett job title Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Secretary Director Director Director and General Counsel Allison Kirkby was appointed Peter spent most of his executive Sandra has been involved in Jonathan is a lawyer by Biography President & Group CEO of TDC career in food manufacturing, the retail sector throughout profession and has held the Group A S in December 2018. having held a number of her career and was employed position of Company Secretary TDC is the leading provider executive positions including by Tesco PLC, latterly as for a number of FTSE 250 and of technology, communication Divisional Managing Director Commercial Director for Tesco FTSE Smallcap companies.
solutions and home of Hillsdown Holdings, Director Ireland, from 1987 to 2009.
His previous employers include entertainment in Denmark.
of Terranova the chilled foods Prior to this she worked in sales Avon Cosmetics Limited, SSL She previously served as business demerged from and marketing roles for Unilever International plc, Wagon plc President & Group CEO Hillsdown Holdings and and Wilkinson Sword.
Prior to joining ultimately as UK Managing Tele2 in 2014, Allison spent two Director of Uniq plc.
More decades in the FMCG sector recently, Peter was European at Procter & Gamble in a Chairman of Hain Celestial variety of senior financial and Group.
operational roles before moving into the TMT sector, first at Virgin Media and then as Group CFO of Shine Group a division of 21st Century Fox.
Allison is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CIMA.
30 January 2013 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010 Appointed since Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Member of the British Retail External of BT Group plc.
Carpetright plc, McBride plc, Consortium Policy Board: appointments Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc and Chair of the Trustees of the Jacksons Bakery Limited.
Huhtmaki OYJ from Percy Hedley Foundation.
Non-Executive Director of Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Chair of Audit Committee: Audit, Remuneration and Chair of Remuneration Secretary to Board and all Committee Remuneration and Nominations Nominations Committee Committee: Audit and its Committees membership Committee member member Nominations Committee member Favourite Greggs snack 3-7 years 7 years 4:3 7.3 57% 43% 14% 43% 43% Board diversity, Board diversity, Male Female Male Female Male by gender by tenure years Average years 5.1 10.3 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41
