02 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS | CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 2018 WAS A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR IN WHICH WE CONTINUED TO DELIVER A VERY STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
Lee Feldman 2018 was a momentous year for the is an enormous opportunity.
In July, the Group Non-executive Chairman Group, with the acquisition of the entered into a joint-venture with MGM Resorts 5 March 2019 Ladbrokes Coral Group on 28 March to operate online sports-betting and gaming making the enlarged GVC Group the and retail sport-betting operations in the US, worlds largest online-led sports-betting as and when states regulate.
The combination and gaming company.
of brands, technology and market access of the two parent companies provide the The acquisition has greatly strengthened opportunity to build a world-class operation the Group through the addition of a strong in the US.
portfolio of brands in well-established markets, leading marketing expertise and Integration update the addition of some very talented people.
Combined with the existing GVC brands and The acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral operational expertise that has already proved business completed on 28th March 2018 and so successful, and supported by our leading the integration of that business is already well proprietary technology stack, the enlarged progressed.
We expect to deliver significant group is very well placed to continue to grow benets from integrating the Ladbrokes Coral at market leading rates.
The repeal of the businesses: we have announced 130m Professional and Amateur Sports Protection cost synergies and we will also benefit Act PASPA legislation in the US in May, from the implementation of best-of-both effectively enabling each state to legislate operational practices.
The initial phase of the and regulate sports-betting for the first time, integration, primarily the implementation of new management and employee structures, has gone well, and it is very pleasing to see the culture of the Ladbrokes Coral businesses t-in very well with that of the existing GVC business.
A key part of the integration is technology, and the migration of the Ladbrokes Coral UK online businesses onto the GVC technology platform.
It was pleasing to announce in February that we have reached an agreement with Playtech PLC that will enable us greater exibility and support for this transition.
Financial performance The performance of the Group in 2018 was very strong.
Proforma NGR was 9% ahead on a proforma basis, and underlying proforma EBITDA before separately disclosed items was 13% ahead.
Growth in Online was particularly strong, with NGR up 19% and underlying EBITDA also up 19%.
This growth was delivered across all our major geographies and brands, with double digit growth NGR in the UK, Germany, Australia, Italy, and Brazil and also in our global partypoker brand.
Group proforma underlying operating profit was 19% ahead and we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 16p, taking the total 2018 dividend to 32p, an increase of 7% on 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
