"Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report Helen Jones CSR Committee Chairman Fast fact Chairmans Letter In the last year we have continued to make great progress on our Corporate Social Responsibility ""CSR"" initiatives."
We have four CSR pillars which we focus on: 4 Colleagues: CSR Pillars Community: Environmental Management: and Responsible Trading We consider that these four pillars are the right areas of focus and we are constantly seeking to ensure that our Corporate Social During the year, the Committee ensured that: Responsibility Strategy is aligned to our Company goals and values.
short and long-term objectives for the Companys CSR activities are in place: Committee Composition and Meetings key metrics are reported on: and The Committee consisted of: all related policies are regularly reviewed and updated.
Helen Jones Chairman Graham Stapleton appointed 15 January 2018 Jonathan Crookall Andy Randall We consider that these four pillars Ian Carter appointed 22 March 2018 are the right areas of focus and we Richard Street resigned 22 March 2018 are constantly seeking to ensure that our Corporate Social Responsibility Jill McDonald resigned 29 September 2017 Strategy is aligned to our Company There were three Committee meetings held during the year and after goals and values.
each one, I reported to the Board on the key issues that we covered.
I also held informal discussions between Committee members and business leaders throughout the year as the need arose.
72 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 Activities undertaken Looking Ahead During the year the Committee: Once again, we have identified our work on Environmental Management as a key area of focus in the year ahead.
We have agreed internal priorities and metrics to track and deliver CSR reprioritised our resources to support this including the appointment progress: of a new external agency to assess us in this regard.
They will help us reviewed and agreed the Companys approach to charitable in agreeing detailed benchmarks for measuring our performance and support: the development of our strategy.
approved an additional charity partner, voted for by colleagues: The Terms of Reference for the Committees are available at approved internal and external policies on Environment: www.
com investors governance carried out our annual review of the CSR Policy: Helen Jones carried out our annual review of the Committees Terms of Chairman of the CSR Committee Reference: and 22 May 2018 reviewed proposed changes in forthcoming CSR related regulations and governance.
Further information on corporate social responsibility in the Group, including environmental details on emissions, can be found on pages 24 to 32 of the Strategic Report.
com 73 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
