Strategic Report Our business model Our business has a positive impact on the world and creates value forall our stakeholders.
We have unique Enabled by technology, Which help solve strengths bigproblems data and insights People and culture Our companies make innovative Our approach has a positive impact on We have empowered people who products and develop solutions the world and helps to solve global issues want to make a positive difference whichhave a core focus on safety, that affect all of us.
Organisation We have a decentralised structure, Gas safety systems Safer which gives us agility and allows us Protecting worker safety to move fast when markets change.
inhazardousplaces Water quality Ensuring safe movement of Innovation people and vehicles as the global We are passionate about improving Environmental monitoring populationincreases how things work and pride ourselves Preventing loss of life and property on a culture in which new ideas duetofire and explosion canflourish.
Light analytics Financial Our operations are cash generative Healthcare monitoring Cleaner and this allows us to continually acquire new companies and Improving and monitoring air quality reinvest in our existing companies.
Health diagnostics Protecting water security and sustainability Customer focus Monitoring the impact of climate change Our companies stay close to their Eye health customers and develop long-standing relationships.
Industrial safety systems Healthier International expansion We have deep experience of Eliminating preventable blindness growing and acquiring businesses Meeting the rising demand for People and vehicle sensors internationally.
healthcare due to ageing and lifestylechanges M&A Pressure safety systems Diagnosing and managing long-term We have proven capabilities for health conditions such as diabetes acquiring, merging and selling andhypertension businesses.
Security sensors Fire systems 4 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report To create value for everyone We create value for all ourstakeholders through our business model and by delivering a clear growth strategy.
Shareholders Acquisition prospects and Communities We generate value for shareholders through strategicpartners Our solutions help millions of people across our sustainable earnings growth, increasing We attract new partners and companies the world by saving and protecting lives dividends and a high return on capital.
whoare aligned with our Purpose and in awide range of settings, from remote villages to densely populated cities.
wantto benefit by being part of the wider Our people Halma family.
Customers We develop and reward our people both Our businesses have the knowhow to financially and professionally in a culture that continually deliver innovative solutions has a strong and united sense of purpose.
forourcustomers to help them succeed.
Suppliers Operating companies Our growth supports other businesses We share our value with the operating andtheir stakeholders up and down their companies in our Group, by reinvesting supply chain.
intheir businesses, enabling their growth, and developing their talent.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 5 Strategic Report Strategy at a glance The Halma 4.0 strategy is to acquire and grow businesses in global niche markets.
It is powered byour Purpose and a unique set of growth enablersthat relentlessly drive our success.
1 Our Purpose is to grow a safer, cleaner, healthier future for everyone, every day.
It is our massive transformative purpose, and acts as our North Star to ensure we focusondoing those things that make it happen, andnotdoing those things that work against it.
Core Edge 2 Growth Strategies Growing a The increasing rate of technological safer, cleaner, change, including data and connectivity, is opening up new healthier future ways of growing our business and leveraging the collaborative culture we have been building.
for everyone, Core every day This is what Halma has always done, and will continue to be our major focus.
It includes investment in developing new products and growing internationally in niche markets with resilient long-term growth drivers.
Convergence Convergence This is a new growth strategy focusedon developing new products, services and business models by combining existing Halma technologies with new expertise and new partnerships inside oroutside the Group.
Edge This is a new growth strategy aimed at developing digital business models that have the potential to completely disrupt existing models and can scaleexponentially.
6 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 3 Growth Enablers Our growth strategies are powered by a unique set of skills and expertise across the Group that our companies can draw on to relentlessly drive their success.
We acquire and grow sustainable businesses with a focus on safety, health and the M&A environment, in markets with resilient long-term growth drivers.
We also sell or merge businesses to keep our Group focused on niches with growth potential.
We help our companies to build their businesses in key export markets, including International Expansion developed and developing regions.
We have established hubs in the USA, China and Indiato help our companies access these major markets.
We attract and develop people who want to make a difference.
Our agile, fide-centralised Talent & Culture operating model empowers our leaders to have the freedom to make their own decisions and stay close to their customers.
We keep investing in our businesses to deliver strong organic growth and target new Finance & Risk acquisitions.
We provide financial discipline to give our leaders the insight to make gooddecisions.
We provide innovation and accelerator programmes to help our companies discover new Digital Growth Engines opportunities and build digital capabilities which sharpen their competitive advantage.
We enable our companies to connect with each other and with experts from around the Innovation Network world to ensure they are learning from each other and stay current with market trends.
We help our companies develop market-leading positions by improving how they tell their Strategic Communications story and connect with customers to build their brand and increase revenue.
4 Achievements Financial KPIs Our businesses deliver exceptional results.
We set ourselves a challenging target to double our earnings every five years and maintain high returns.
Non-financial KPIs Culture is crucial.
We work hard to develop an organisation that has the right mindset, talent and diversity to drive sustainable growth in an ethical way.
Customer satisfaction Our operating model means that we work very close to our customers.
Responding quickly to meet their needs is an essential component of our success.
Shareholder value We focus on creating shareholder value through earnings growth with a high level of return on capital.
We have increased our dividend by 5% or more for almost 40 consecutive years.
5 Our impact We aim to fulfil our Purpose of growing a safer, cleaner, healthier futureforeveryone, every day.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 7
