Governance Effectiveness Composition of the Board In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, The genuine desire to seek input from The Board comprises 10 directors, who non-executive Directors are expected to the Board members, rather than simply bring a wide variety of skills and experience attend the Annual General Meeting, the approving management recommendations, to the Boardroom.
With four executive annual strategy meeting and other key events was considered to be refreshing.
The limited Directors and six non-executive Directors and conduct company visits throughout the areas identified for additional consideration including the Chairman, there is a strong year.
A time commitment of around 20 days related to factors that the Board had already independent element to Halmas Board which per annum is the anticipated requirement for identified and were managing such as the encourages constructive challenge and each non-executive Director.
Prior to their Groups strategic direction relating to the ensures that the balance of power rests with appointment, confirmation is obtained from digital revolution, which is now embodied the non-executive members of the Board.
each non-executive Director that they can inthe Halma 4.0 growth strategy.
The Chairman considers the current Board allocate sufficient time to the role.
structure to be appropriate both in terms of The Chairman and non-executive Directors size and the balance of skills around the table.
Details of Board attendance during the year meet after each Board meeting without The biographies of each Director, including is set out on page 71 and attendance for each executive Directors present, to ensure that anoverview of their skills and experience, Committee is in the relevant Committee there is an opportunity to discuss potentially areset out on pages 68 and 69. reports on pages 78, 81 and 86. sensitive matters.
At least annually, the Senior Independent Director meets with the nonThe Board has established a formal process Induction and development executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, for the search and appointment of new Newly appointed non-executive Directors to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
directors, details of which are set out in the follow a tailored induction programme, The executive Directors are also given the Nomination Committee report on page 78. which includes dedicated time with Group opportunity to meet with the Chairman executives and visits to companies within each and or the Senior Independent Director Independence of the four sectors.
The outcome of these meetings The Board has reviewed the independence Directors arrange site visits throughout the is fed back to individuals by the Chairman, ofeach non-executive Director and, following year, often around their other business travel Senior Independent Director or Group an assessment of any relationships or commitments.
The Chairman reviews training ChiefExecutive, as appropriate.
circumstances which are likely to affect a and development needs of the Board, and Directors judgement, consider each to be each individual Director, at least annually.
The Board While most Directors undertake their own With the exception of Kevin Thompson, believes that any shares in the Company held programme of continuing professional who is retiring from the Company, all of the by the Chairman and non-executive Directors development, briefings and presentations current Directors will stand for re-election serve to align their interests with those from subject experts are available to all at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting oftheshareholders.
Marc Ronchetti, who will be appointed specialist topics may also be covered within as Group Chief Financial Officer from 1 July Tony Rice was appointed Senior Independent the Board meeting agenda oras part of the 2018, will stand for election at the AGM.
Director in July 2015 and is available as an annual Leadership conference, which this Following the annual evaluation of the Board alternative channel of communication for yearpromoted ourinnovation activities.
and its Committees, all Directors standing shareholders, independent from executive for election or re-election continue to be management and the Chairman.
Board evaluation effective, hold recent and relevant experience The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of and demonstrate commitment to their role.
Time commitment its performance, and of each Director, on an The Board benefits from the wide variety annual basis.
The principal Committees of the Biographical details of each Director standing of skills, experience and knowledge that Board undertake a separate annual evaluation for election or re-election are set out in the each Director has.
Director availability of their effectiveness, in accordance with Notice of Meeting.
and commitment of sufficient time to their terms of reference.
Accordingly, Liability insurance and indemnities thenumber of external directorships that a For 2017 18, the Board engaged a specialist Each Director is covered by appropriate non-executive Director holds is an important external adviser, Condign Board Consulting directors and officers liability insurance, consideration when recruiting and when which has no other connection with the atthe Companys expense.
In addition, annually evaluating the contribution and Company to review its effectiveness.
This there are Deeds of Indemnity in place, which effectiveness of each non-executive Director.
process involved the adviser reviewing provide an indemnity from the Company previous evaluations and meeting each toeach individual Director in respect of any Executive Directors are permitted to accept Director and the Company Secretary proceedings brought against them personally one external appointment, with the prior individually, to ask a series of questions by a third party, in their capacity as Director approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only covering areas of importance to the of the Company.
The indemnity does not be given where the appointment: does not individual, their role and the Company.
extend to certain areas, including: any liability present a conflict of interest with the Groups Theadvisers attendance, as an observer, to pay a fine levied in criminal proceedings: activities: does not require undue time atthe Board and Committee meetings held defending criminal proceedings where the commitment which could be detrimental inNovember 2017 provided useful insight Director is convicted and such conviction is to Halma: and where the role is considered intothe work and dynamics in the boardroom.
final: defending any civil proceedings brought to be beneficial to the development of The evaluation report found that the Board by the Company or an associated company: theindividual and therefore of benefit operates in a highly functional, purposeful or in any proceedings for disqualification totheCompany.
It observed that there ofthe Director.
washealthy, effective challenge from the non-executive Directors and also the Group Chief Executive suggesting that the Boarddo not suffer from groupthink.
76 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Strategy in action: Governance in action: Investor dinner The Boards engagement with stakeholders Operating companies Acquisition prospects andbusinesspartners On 7 February 2018, the Company The executive members of the Board have Our M&A teams are in frequent dialogue with hosted a dinner for analysts and frequent contact with our companies and make numerous businesses that could be potential institutional investors in London.
regular visits to companies in all sectors.
The acquisition prospects or business partners in the The presentation, which was given non-executive members of the Board visit future.
The Executive Board takes a strategic lead by a number of Halma executives, companies as part of their induction and in driving the acquisition pipeline.
Our Executives summarised the evolution of Halmas routinely thereafter.
The Board members also act as the primary contact in M&A discussions strategy over the past 45 years, set out engage with our current and future business promoting the benefits of working with Halma Industry 4.0 trends and the Groups leaders through their personal contributions to tobusiness owners and evaluating the cultural digital growth potential, and introduced our development programmes, participation on and strategic fit with our Group.
the new Convergence and Edge growth our collaboration platform HalmaHub and elements to our Halma 4.0 strategy.
attendance at the annual Leadership conference.
This regular interaction between the Board and The event enabled stakeholders to meet the businesses provides a vital channel of with executive management and to communication and a forum for open dialogue appreciate the Groups digital growth and knowledge-sharing.
Our management find such events, along with the investor results roadshows, an important forum for sharing knowledge and insight across the Group.
Acquisition Operating prospects and companies business partners Engaging with ourstakeholders Employees Shareholders Employees Shareholders Good communication with employees is key to We regularly engage with our shareholders supporting an agile approach to business and through a variety of events and media.
Being part of the Halma events include: investor results presentations group means that all of our businesses benefit and roadshows, the Annual General Meeting, from group-wide communications, talent and investor & analyst dinner, investor conferences innovation support and initiatives, such as our and institutional investor meetings.
In addition collaboration platform HalmaHub, a policy toregulatory news announcements, we provide framework and participation in our annual global updates to shareholders via our website, blog, engagement survey.
The Board engages with press releases, social media, YouTube channel employees through development programmes and our Annual and Half Year Reports.
The slides from the investor and site visits.
We recognise that our people event are accessible via the area valuable asset and talent development website at www.
com isakey driver of ourfinancial success.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 77
