Strategic Report Business Review Process Safety We create products that protect people andassets at work.
The areas in which we operate Gas sensors Pressure relief Instruments and systems that detect Explosion protection devices to flammable and hazardous gases.
protect pressurised vessels and pipework in process industries.
Safety Interlocks Specialised Interlocks which prevent Pipeline management accidents and ensure that critical Valve interlocking and pipeline processes operate safely.
corrosion monitoring systems that safeguard people and processes.
18 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Highlights Revenue % of Group Performance KPIs 2018 Group target 1 Revenue growth 10.5% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 10.5% 5% 1 Profit growth 7.7% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 8.1% 5% 17% 2 Return on Sales 23.5% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 3.4% 4% Contribution to Group m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 5 % of Adjusted operating profit Revenue 185 167 155 159 127 5 Profit 43 40 40 45 35 4 5 1 Revenue and adjusted operating profit are compared to the equivalent prioryearfigures.
4 5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted operating profit expressed asapercentage of revenue.
3 R&D expenditure expressed as a percentage of revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items andrestructuring costs see note 1 to theAccounts.
4 18% 5 Adjusted operating profit before central administration costs after share of associate.
4 5 6 Adjusted operating profit and organic growth rates are alternative performance measures used by management.
See notes 1 and 3 to theAccounts.
Sector progress summary Our companies have been adept at Process Safety Sector The sector delivered strong organic revenue expanding into adjacent markets.
The first half of the year include the use of interlock technology was particularly strong against a weaker in warehousing applications while also 185m comparison period, but solid progress keeping pace with technology changes wasalso made in the second half.
incore markets, such as the increasing use Revenue of collaborative robots in the workplace.
The Pressure Management sub-sector took With the global demand for collaborative advantage of their strong product portfolios robots expected to grow further, an agile and the improving US onshore oil and gas approach to complement or leverage such 43m market, to produce outstanding results with technological developments is key for 5 double digit revenue and profit growth.
Adjusted operating profit The Pipeline Management sub-sector also produced strong organic growth, capitalising As a critical global resource, energy demand on the improving capex spending in Asia and continues to be a significant growth driver the Middle East.
The remaining sub-sectors for our Pressure Management and Pipeline also contributed organic revenue growth.
The global demand for energy remains high, growing by 2.1% Market trends and growth drivers in 2017 with 70% of the demand being met Our Safety Interlocks and Gas Detection byoil, natural gas and coal.
businesses are continuing to benefit from increasing health and safety regulation and Current projections indicate that the demand a growing population.
With an estimated for oil is likely to remain relatively flat through 374 million injuries and 2.74 million fatalities to the year 2040, partly due to the rise in occurring in the workplace each year, renewable energy and demand for electric it is likely that the ongoing tightening vehicles.
However, the additional new supply and advancement of health and safety required to offset the decline in natural regulationswill continue.
production will require new production, equal to nearly 5% of the total, be added each year.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 19 Strategic Report Business Review continued Process Safety continued The Pressure Management sub-sector forefront of its market with a broader range New product and process development hasparticularly benefited from the recent ofsensing and connected data solutions.
continued to play a large role in our success.
resurgence in investment in unconventional The Salvo product extended our sequential oil and gas and the growing use of Natural We are looking to increase the value we safety companies markets into trailer loading Gas Liquids as chemical feedstock in the USA.
provide our customers by combining new bay safety.
The Pressure Management These trends are expected to continue for digital technology with our existing, marketsub-sector developed industry leading thenext 20 years.
Targeted technology for their scored rupture disc acquisitions will be sought to accelerate andwelded disc assembly product lines.
We are also finding more The sector performed strongly in all ways for companies within Process Safety Outlook geographies.
Asia Pacific, the USA and to collaborate on solutions thatcombine We are aiming to acquire businesses in Otherregions were particularly strong.
technology and insight from two or more core and adjacent markets with a strong other Halma companies.
emphasis on digital technology and new The US performance was driven by the business models.
Through diversifying our improving Oil and Gas market and, while Performance product and service offerings, both at the upstream Capex remains well below the The Process Safety sector has increased individual company level and at the sector record levels of 2014, it grew by 35% in the revenue by 11% to 185m and grew profit level through acquisition, we plan to steadily USA in 2017 4% globally.
On an organic constant reduce our exposure to Oil and Gas over should grow by an estimated 8% in 2018 currency basis, revenue and profit grew themediumterm.
compared to 2017, again led by the USA.
The Pressure Management sub-sector enjoyed a year of With strong growth prospects in core and Strategy strong revenue and profit growth, primarily adjacent markets and a steadily improving Oil The sectors markets are diverse and its in the US chemical and energy markets.
The and Gas market we expect to make progress products provide valuable safety solutions Pipeline Management sub-sector benefited in the coming year.
in a wide variety of niche applications within from several large capital project awards in the energy, chemical, pharmaceutical, bioAsia and the Middle East.
Our Gas Sensors technology, automotive, transportation and and Safety Interlock business also grew.
Our companies are We strengthened our acquisition pipeline, strengthening their international presence although all the growth delivered in the whilst accelerating activities to moderate yearwas organic.
ourdependency on the Oil and Gas market.
Overheads Through partnering and acquisition activity were controlled with spend increasing in we are seeking new opportunities in line with revenue growth.
Return on Sales specialised niches where we can provide remained above Halma group target at 23.5%.
valuable solutions to high stake problems.
Strong working capital management and As an example, our corrosion monitoring profit generation helped improve Return on business, Cosasco, entered into an exclusive Capital Employed, maintaining it well above commercial partnership with Sensorlink target.
R&D spend at 3.4% of revenue was AS, a Norwegian business with novel below the Group target, but is expected to ultrasonic non-intrusive corrosion monitoring increase as we focus on digital technology technology.
This moves Cosasco to the and new product development.
20 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Global work-related accidents 400 350 300 2001 2003 2008 2010 2014 Non-fatal work-related accidents millions Fatal work-related accidents thousands CASE STUDY Fortress At Halma, we seek solutions to help Fortresss amGardpro safety improve safety for workers in heavy interlock system industrial settings.
Our world-leading Millions of occupational accidents machine guard locking products add both fatal and non-fatal occur every an additional level of safety to protect single year.
The latest figures from both workers and the machinery.
the International Labour Organization reports 380,000 deaths per year as Fortresss trapped key technology aresult of occupational accidents, and safety gate switches are used and an additional 374 million nonby companies all over the world in fatal injuries worldwide.
industries where isolating hazardous machinery and dangerous equipment While such accidents can, at their is paramount.
The amGardpro range worst, have tragic and life-changing is the ultimate range of modular effects on employees, collectively safety gate switch interlocks, for the impact can equate tosignificant heavy duty applications which figures of Gross Domestic allows users to create a tailored Product GDP.
solution to suit almost any machine guarding application.
Its highly robust The European Agency for Safety construction makes it the perfect 435bn andHealth at Work estimates that guard switch for high vibration work-related health and injury Cost of work-related health and injury machinery and will continue to equates to a loss of 3.3% of GDP operate in even the most arduous inthe European Union every year environments.
eliminates human error and prevents industrial accidents by ensuring asafe sequence of events.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 21
