Adam Meyers Group Chief Executive Sector Chief Executive, Safety Sector Chief Executive, Andrew was appointed Group Chief Executive Paul was appointed to the Executive Board Medical &Environmental ofHalma plc in February 2005.
He joined Halma in April 2010 Adam was appointed to the Halma plc Board Engineer and joined the Group in 1994 as andled businesses, including Avire and in 2008.
He became a member of the Halma Manufacturing Director of Reten Acoustics Apollo, before becoming Sector Vice Executive Board in 2003, in the position of nowHWM-Water, becoming Managing Director President.
Paulholds a degree in Production Divisional Chief Executive, having previously in 1997.
Andrew became a member of the Halma Engineering and, prior to joining Halma, he been Assistant Divisional Chief Executive.
Executive Board in 2002 and was promoted spent 13 years at3M.
He is responsible for He joined Halma in 1996 as President of to the Halma plc Board in July 2004.
Andrew allcompanies withinHalmas Process Safety Bio-Chem Valve.
Adam is responsible for isanon-executive director of Capita plc.
all companies within Halmas Medical and Environmental & Analysis sectors.
Jennifer Ward Finance Director Chief Innovation and DigitalOfficer Group Talent and Communications Director Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board in Inken joined Halma, and was appointed She became a member of the Halma Executive 1998, having been appointed as Finance Director to the Executive Board, in July 2017.
Prior to joining Halma, in 1997.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant to joining Halma, Inken was the Chief as Group Talent Director, Jennifer spent over with Price Waterhouse and joined Halma in Innovation Officer of innogy SE, a renewables 15 years leading HR, Talent and Organisational therole of Group Financial Controller in1987.
energy company based in Germany and Development for divisions of PayPal, Bank of Kevin became a member of the Executive a subsidiary of RWE.
Previously, Inken was America and Honeywell.
Jennifer has global Board in 1995.
He has functional responsibility MD of RWEs Strategy and Management responsibility for talent development and for finance, tax & treasury, risk & internal audit Consultancy practice.
Inkenstudied Business communications across the Group, with a andhealth &safety.
Kevin is a non-executive Administration and Innovation & Technology strongfocus on Halmas senior management director ofRPCGroup Plc.
Management atKielUniversity and has and the boards of its subsidiary businesses.
70 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
