Strategic Report Business Review Infrastructure Safety We create products that save lives protect infrastructure and enable safe movement.
The areas in which we operate Fire detection People and vehicle flow Fire and smoke detectors, Sensors used on automatic doors control panels, audible and visual in public, commercial and industrial warning devices, networked fire buildings and transportation.
Security sensors Fire suppression Security sensors, motion devices Systems to automatically extinguish and control panels used to protect fires, protecting people, property commercial, residential and and assets.
Elevator safety Elevator and lift door safety sensors, emergency communication devices, displays and control panels for elevators.
22 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Highlights Revenue % of Group Performance KPIs 2018 Group target 1 Revenue growth 10.6% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 8.2% 5% 1 Profit growth 12.5% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 9.8% 5% 33% 2 Return on Sales 21.0% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 5.8% 4% Contribution to Group m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 5 % of Adjusted operating profit Revenue 349 315 265 234 220 5 Profit 73 65 56 50 44 4 5 1 Revenue and adjusted operating profit are compared to the equivalent prioryearfigures.
4 5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted operating profit expressed asapercentage of revenue.
3 R&D expenditure expressed as a percentage of revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items andrestructuring costs see note 1 to theAccounts.
4 31% 5 Adjusted operating profit before central administration costs after share of associate.
4 5 6 Adjusted operating profit and organic growth rates are alternative performance measures used by management.
See notes 1 and 3 to theAccounts.
Sector progress summary Suppression systems is forecast to grow 12% Infrastructure Safety Sector The sector has had a strong year, led by 13% each year between 2015 and 2020. robust organic growth in our Fire businesses and our People and Vehicle Flow business.
Tens of thousands of people worldwide die 349m All the sectors companies posted record every year due to fire.
Most of these deaths revenue and the majority record profits.
are preventable and employers and building Revenue Return on Sales and Return on Capital owners are under increasing pressure to Employed both showed good improvements, comply with stricter government laws and with the increased levels of R&D spend regulations to protect their workers.
73m High-profile tragedies are driving welcome 5 The sector added two important technologies improvements in the fire safety of existing Adjusted operating profit to the portfolio via the acquisition of a infrastructure, and we expect to see more wireless smoke detection business and an regulations coming into force to protect elevator safety communication company.
peoples lives in both commercial and residential property.
Although standards Market trends and growth drivers and practices vary between countries, these Our Fire businesses operate in markets standards are improving every year and driven by increasingly tight regulations, becoming more closely aligned.
anexpanding world population and greater urbanisation.
As a result, the industry is Wireless fire systems provide a fast, effective experiencing global growth, with Fire and non-intrusive way of improving the Detection growing an estimated 5.3% per safety of existing infrastructure.
As a result, annum between 2015 and 2020 and Fire we expect demand for wireless products to Suppression growing 4.7% per annum.
continue accelerating in the coming years as governments, regulators and business Increasing population growth and owners all respond to the need to improve urbanisation, allied to a heightened focus on firesafety.
Our recent acquisition, Argus, life safety, are driving even higher rates of which manufactures wireless fire sensors, growth for fire systems in many developing ispoised to benefit from this trend.
For example, the Indian market for both Fire Detection and Fire Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 23 Strategic Report Business Review continued Infrastructure Safety continued The market for security products is Revenue grew well in the UK and Mainland The People and Vehicle Flow business increasingly linked to the emergence of Europe with the USA underperforming due to performed very strongly due to new product intelligent buildings.
It is estimated that by weaker performances by our fire companies.
introductions and larger project successes 2024 there will be 2.1 million connections in inAsia Pacific.
Buoyed by the acquisition the intelligent buildings sector in the UK, with Strategy ofSetco, our Elevator Safety business had 70% of those connections related to security.
Our strategy aims to accelerate growth agood year both in terms of financial results due to increasing life safety concerns and and transitioning the business to more Our Security business is ideally positioned the digitisation of infrastructure, whilst profitable products and services.
to benefit from the connected trend maintaining a focus on less cyclical, niche with its cloud based platform, which applications with high barriers to entry.
The Fire and Security businesses enables remote monitoring and control Thereare three main elements asfollows: outperformed the market through  system.
acombination of new products and Core growth international growth, making a strong The OEM elevator market continues to be organically expand our geographic contribution to the sectors performance.
highly competitive although the fast-growing footprint, especially in China, India and The recently acquired Fire business, maintenance market is more attractive, with a South East Asia and accelerate this Argus, performed in line with expectation faster growth rate 4% and higher profitability.
The increasing use of mobile technology accelerate the pace of innovation and in elevators for emergency and monitoring product development to continue Gross margins remained strong despite communications was the driver behind delivering sustainable and differentiated component cost headwinds.
With our acquisition of Setco, a Spanish M2M value to our customers.
good overhead control, Return on Sales communications technology company.
Convergence towards connected systems In both developed and developing countries and infrastructure All key financial metrics met or exceeded there is a significant increase of people move our companies offerings along the Halma targets, with strong cash generation moving into urban areas and living in larger digital value chain, to leverage our strong and Return on Capital Employed.
A recent United Nations report sensor technology portfolio and new estimates that by2050 68% of the global cloud-based systems.
Outlook population will be living in urban areas.
acquire technology in the integrated Our key growth drivers of increasing Thislong-term trend is creating demand for buildings market.
regulation, population growth and better infrastructure and better transportation urbanisation will continue to prevail in services, as people move into more densely Acquisition thecoming years.
We expect our robust populated areas.
continue to acquire businesses in our core growth trend to continue, supported by markets and close adjacencies.
sound investment decisions in innovation and Our People and Vehicle Flow and our Elevator focus increasingly on digital and people, and by strategic acquisitions in both businesses are positioning themselves to connected technologies to accelerate our core markets and in digital adjacencies.
capitalise on this growing trend, providing growth and enable convergence products and services that enable safer opportunities.
Whilst we will continue to grow steadily transportation and people flow control indeveloped markets, our geographic in andaround buildings, transportation Our strategy is supported by a strong footprint will continue to shift to Asia.
focus on talent, developing our people and recruiting the best talent in the market.
Alongside our sales of core sensor products, Geographic trends we will grow our share of revenues from The sector has a strong international footprint Performance services anddata insight.
although most principal businesses are The sector delivered a strong performance, located in the UK, Mainland Europe and the with revenue up 11% 8% organic constant USA.
There was strong growth of 16% in Asia currency and profit increasing by 13% Pacific and Other regions which compares 10%organic constant currency.
favourably to the sectors overall revenue growth rate of 11%.
The performance in Asia Pacific was underpinned by large projects invehicle registration and mass transit safety.
24 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Global fire casualties and deaths 000 80 60 40 20 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fire injuries Fire deaths CASE STUDY Apollo and industrial applications.
Ideal for Apollos Soteria Dimension fire commercial premises, the Soteria detection system range of fire detectors provide both Fire related deaths and injuries continue heat and smoke detection, using to pose a significant risk to human life, new sensing technology to increase accounting for many thousands of reliability and reduce false alarms.
Soteria Dimension is a range of sleek, Far from uncommon, reports of flat optical fire detectors designed devastating building fires populate global to blend seamlessly with any news on a regular basis.
A specialist anti-ligature building fire can be disruptive at its best version is also available, allowing and at its very worst can be life-changing these products to be installed in or even fatal.
commercial environments with highaesthetic requirements.
Reacting to a fire and prompt evacuationof a building can be With over 25,000 staff and students, paramount to minimising its impact.
the University of Hertfordshire, is Reliable and advanced fire detection 4 5,000 alarge educational site with multiand alarm systems are key for fire purpose spaces.
Over 680 Soteria people suffer injuries from riskmanagement.
detectors were installed throughout fire every year the University to help protect both At Halma, we seek ways to improve staff and students, these advanced early fire detection in order to minimise devices have improved the detection the impact of a building fire.
Apollo Fire of smoke and reduced the risk of Detectors Ltd specialises in the design falsealarms.
and manufacture of high-quality fire detection solutions for commercial Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 25
