Governance Accountability Internal control effectiveness currency and liquidity risks.
The Directors Longer-term viability The Board has overall responsibility to believe the Group is well placed to manage In accordance with the UK Corporate theshareholders for the Groups system its business risks successfully.
The Groups Governance Code, the Board has considered ofinternal control and risk management, forecasts and projections, taking account the Companys longer-term viability and sets andthe review of the systems effectiveness of reasonably possible changes in trading out its Viability Statement below.
is carried out with the assistance of the Audit performance, show that the Group should Committee.
While not providing absolute be able to operate within the level of its Relations with shareholders and assurance against material misstatements current committed facilities, which includes otherstakeholders or loss, this system is designed to identify a 550m Revolving Credit Facility running The Board has visibility of shareholder and manage those risks that could adversely until November 2022 of which 437m interaction and comments.
The Group Chief impact the achievement of the Groups remains undrawn at the date of this report.
Executive and Finance Director have the objectives.
The Groups risk management The Revolving Credit Facility was extended most regular contact with investors and structure and process is detailed on pages toNovember 2022 during the year.
analysts but specific feedback received, and 52 and 53.
The Groups principal risks and analyst comments and reports, are provided uncertainties are detailed on pages 54 to 57.
The Group contracts with a diverse range to all Directors.
The full Board attends the of customers and suppliers across different AGM, which avails individual shareholders The Board confirms that there is an ongoing geographic areas and industries and no with the opportunity to engage directly process for identifying, evaluating and one customer accounts for more than 2% with the Directors.
Shareholders can raise managing the significant risks faced by the of Group turnover.
With this in mind, the questions in relation to the Annual Report and Group and for determining the nature and Directors have a reasonable expectation that Accounts and the business proposed in the extent of the significant risks it is willing to the Company and Group have adequate formal setting at the AGM or they can raise take in achieving its strategic objectives.
resources to continue in operational existence questions about Halma more generally, and The Board, advised by the Audit Committee, for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue in an informal manner, with any of the Board regularly reviews the process, which has been to adopt the going concern basis in preparing members before or after the AGM.
in place for the year under review and up to the annual financial statements.
the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Viability statement Reporting.
The Board has continued to During the year, the Board carried out the Group operates in diverse but improve and embed controls throughout the arobust assessment of the principal risks relatively non-cyclical markets: Group and will continue to keep the systems affecting the Company, including those that there is considerable financial capacity under review to ensure that the internal would threaten its business model, future under current facilities and the ability control and risk management framework performance, solvency or liquidity.
The toraise further funds: remains fit for purpose.
principal risks and uncertainties, including the decentralised nature of our Group an analysis of the potential impact and ensures that risk is spread across our The Boards regular review of the mitigating actions, are set out on pages businesses and sectors, with limited effectiveness of the Groups risk 54to 57 of the Strategic Report.
exposure to any particular industry managementand internal control systems ormarket: including financial, operational and The Board have assessed the viability there is a strong culture of local compliance controls is principally based ofthe Company over a three-year period, responsibility and accountability onreports from management.
These reports taking into account the Groups current withina robust governance and consider whether significant risks have position and the potential impact of the controlframework: and been identified, evaluated, managed and principal risks and uncertainties.
Whilst an ethical approach to business is controlled.
The Groups external Auditor, the Board has no reason to believe that setfrom the top and flows throughout , has audited the Group will not be viable over a longer ourbusiness.
the financial statements and has reviewed period, it has determined that three the financial control systems to the extent years is an appropriate period.
In drawing In making their assessment, the Board considered necessary to support the its conclusion, the Board has aligned carried out a comprehensive exercise of auditreport.
the period of viability assessment with financial modelling and stress-tested the the Groups strategic planning process model with various scenarios based on Going concern athree-year period.
The Board believes the principal risks identified in the Groups The Groups business activities, together that this approach provides greater annual risk assessment process.
Scenarios withthe main trends and factors likely to certainty over forecasting and, therefore, modelled included increases and decreases affect its future development, performance increases reliability in the modelling and in the level of acquisitions, major events and position, and the financial position of the stress testing of the Companys viability.
such as litigation or product failure and Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Inaddition, athree-year horizon is typically a significant increase in pension deficit borrowing facilities, are set out in the Strategic the period over which we review our payments.
Combinations of the above Report.
In addition, note 26 to the financial external bank facilities, and is also the scenarios were also modelled.
In each statements includes the Groups objectives, performance period over which awards scenario, the effect on the Groups KPIs policies and processes for managing its granted under Halmas share-based and borrowing covenants was considered, capital, its financial risk management incentive plan aremeasured.
along with any mitigating factors.
Based objectives, details of its financial instruments on this assessment, the Board confirms and hedging activities, and its exposure to In reviewing the Companys viability, that they have a reasonable expectation the Board has identified the following that the Company will be able to continue factors which they believe support in operation and meet its liabilities as theirassessment: they falldue over the three-year period to31March 2021.
80 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
