Board of Directors N R Dennis Millard Chairman Dennis has been Chairman of the Group since 28 May 2009.
Dennis is also Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Pets at Home Group Plc, and Senior Independent Director of Superdry Plc.
In addition, Dennis is a Trustee of the Holy Cross Children's Trust.
His former board appointments include Chairman of Connect Group plc, Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Debenhams plc, Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Premier Farnell plc, Chief Financial Officer of Cookson Group plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc and a member of the Economics Affairs Committee CBI.
C Graham Stapleton Chief Executive Officer Graham was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 15 January 2018.
Previously, Graham was Chief Executive Officer CEO of Dixons Carphone plcs software business, Honeybee.
Prior to that he was CEO of Dixons Carphones Connected World Services Division from 2015 to 2017 and CEO of Carphone Warehouse UK & Ireland from 2013 to 2015.
Grahams early career covered senior leadership roles in Kingfisher plc from 2001 to 2005 and Marks and Spencer plc from 1994 to 2001.
Prior to which Graham set up and ran his own business for several years.
Graham was a Trustee of the Make-A-Wish charity.
"Jonny Mason Chief Financial Officer Jonny has been Group Chief Financial Officer ""CFO"" since 12 October 2015."
Jonny was Interim Chief Executive Officer between September 2017 and January 2018.
Previously, Jonny was CFO of Scandi Standard AB, a Scandinavian company that successfully listed in Stockholm in June 2014.
Prior to this, he was CFO at Odeon and UCI Cinemas and Finance Director of Sainsburys Supermarkets.
His early career was at Shell and Hanson PLC.
Jonny was also a Director of the charity Dimensions UK Limited.
48 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 A N R David Adams Senior Independent Director David has been a Non-Executive Director since 1 March 2011 and Senior Independent Director since 1 March 2014.
David currently holds Non-Executive Director roles at Debenhams plc and Thinksmart plc.
He chairs the Audit Committee at Debenhams and Thinksmart.
In addition, David is a Trustee of the charity Walk the Walk.
Previously, David was Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc, Non-Executive Chairman of Conviviality plc becoming Executive Chairman, a NonExecutive Director of Hornby plc, a Non-Executive Director of Elegant Hotels plc, a Non-Executive Director at Fevertree Drinks plc and Executive Chairman of Jessops plc, becoming Non-Executive Chairman.
His former board appointments include Chairman at Moss Bros plc and Alexon plc.
In addition he has held several Executive and NonExecutive roles in 30 years in retailing including ten years as a plc Finance Director.
A N R Claudia Arney Independent Non-Executive Director Claudia joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 25 January 2011 and became Remuneration Committee Chairman in March 2014.
Claudia is currently a Non-Executive Director of Aviva plc, Derwent London plc and the Premier League.
Claudia was previously Chairman of The Public Data Group, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of TelecityGroup, and a Board Member of the Shareholder Executive.
In her executive career she was Group Managing Director, Digital at EMAP, Director of the Enterprise and Growth Unit at HM Treasury and Managing Director of TheStreet.
Claudia has also worked at Goldman Sachs, FT. com and Mckinsey.
A C N R Helen Jones Independent Non-Executive Director Helen joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2014 and became Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee in January 2016.
Helen held a senior executive role at Caff Nero until June 2017, and was the CEO of the Zizzi Restaurants group and was also responsible for successfully launching the Ben & Jerrys brand in the UK and Europe.
Helen is currently a member of the Supervisory Board of Directors of Ben and Jerrys and Viapiano SE.
Committee Membership A Audit Committee C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 49 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
