Jennifer Ward Chairman Finance Director Group Talent and Communications Director Paul was appointed non-executive Chairman Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board in Jennifer was appointed to the Halma plc Board ofHalma in July 2013, having been appointed to 1998, having been appointed as Finance Director in September 2016.
She became a member the Board in April 2013.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant of the Halma Executive Board in March 2014.
Group plc from 1994 to 2010 and has previously with Price Waterhouse and joined Halma in the Prior to joining Halma, as Group Talent Director, served on the boards of Diageo plc and Mytravel role of Group Financial Controller in 1987.
Kevin Jennifer spent over 15 years leading HR, Talent Group plc.
Paul qualified as a Chartered became a member of the Executive Board in and Organisational Development for divisions of Accountant with Ernst & Young.
He has functional responsibility for finance, PayPal, Bank of America and Honeywell.
Jennifer tax & treasury, risk & internal audit and health has global responsibility for talent development Non-executive directorships & safety.
and communications across the Group, with Experian plc astrong focus on Halmas senior management Sophos Group plc Non-executive directorships and the boards of its subsidiary businesses.
Daniela Barone Soares A N R Group Chief Executive Sector Chief Executive, Non-executive Director Andrew was appointed Group Chief Executive Daniela was appointed a non-executive Director Medical&Environmental ofHalma plc in February 2005.
He is a Chartered Adam was appointed to the Halma plc Board of Halma plc in November 2011.
She is currently Engineer and joined the Group in 1994 as CEO of Granito & Capital and was previously in 2008.
He became a member of the Halma Manufacturing Director of Reten Acoustics Executive Board in 2003, in the position of CEO of Impetus The Private Equity Foundation, nowHWM-Water, becoming Managing Director having held senior roles at Save the Children, Divisional Chief Executive, having previously in 1997.
Andrew became a member of the Halma been Assistant Divisional Chief Executive.
BancBoston Capital, Goldman Sachs and Executive Board in 2002 and was promoted to Citibank.
Daniela is a non-executive Director He joined Halma in 1996 as President of the Halma plc Board in July 2004.
Adam is responsible for of vora S. A. a company listed on the So Paolo Exchange, which operates businesses all companies within Halmas Medical and Non-executive directorships inmanufacturing and forestry.
Capita plc Non-executive directorships vora S. A.
68 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 7 9 8 10 11 7.
Carol Chesney Non-executive Director Senior non-executive Director Company Secretary Carole was appointed a non-executive Director Tony was appointed a non-executive Director Carol was appointed Company Secretary of of Halma plc in January 2016.
She is Chief of Halma plc in August 2014 and as Senior Halma plc in 1998.
She joined Halma in1995 Financial Officer at Forth Ports Ltd, having held Independent Director in July 2015.
He was as Group Finance Manager having spent the same position at Aggreko plc until December formerly the senior independent director and threeyears with English China Clays plc.
Prior to that, she held a number of senior remuneration committee chair of Spirit Pub Shequalified as a Chartered Accountant financial roles since joining Aggreko in 2004.
Earlier in his career, Tony was withArthur Andersen.
Carole qualified as a Chartered Accountant Chief Executive Officer of Cable & Wireless Non-executive directorships with KPMG and worked for seven years at Communications plc, CEO of Tunstall Plc and Renishaw plc BAE Systems plc in a range of senior financial held a number of senior roles in BAE Systems plc Hunting plc positions, which included four years in Australia.
Non-executive directorships Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Chairman 8.
Roy Twite A N R Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Jo was appointed a non-executive Director Roy was appointed a non-executive Director of Halma plc in October 2016.
Jo has held of Halma plc in July 2014.
He is an executive international positions, most recently at director at IMI plc, the FTSE 250 specialist Microsoft and previously at Nokia.
Before her engineering company, having been appointed move into consumer electronics, Jo worked to the board in February 2007.
During his career onstrategic marketing at Reebok and Procter with IMI, Roy has led all of the divisions including &Gamble.
Severe Service 2011, Fluid Power 2009, Beverage and Merchandising 2007 and Indoor Non-executive directorships Climate 2004.
InterContinental Hotels Group plc J Sainsbury plc CECONOMY AG Committee membership supervisory board member A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Chairman of Committee Member of Committee Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 69
