Governance Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve atthe 2018 Annual General Meeting.
This policy will formally come into effect from 19 July 2018, being the date of the 2018 AGM, and is effective for up to three years.
Compliance statement This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 31 March 2018: plan interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Salary is benchmarked to Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual reviews normally with effect from Not applicable A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting market median levels periodically against appropriate comparators of a similar size and operating 1April.
Salaries for the financial year under review and the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report the size and scope of the executives ina similar sector, and is linked to individual performance and contribution.
responsibilities which attracts and retains high calibre talent necessary for the Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average of the wider employee population delivery of the Groups strategy.
other than in exceptional circumstances.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, for example where there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee willprovide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically comprise but are not limited Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the role and circumstances of each Not applicable To provide benefits that are competitive to a company car, life insurance, permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, individual executive Director.
The maximum value will equate to the reasonable market cost of such benefits.
relocation and tax advice for international assignments.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy applies.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report onRemuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution pension plan or the US 401k Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable salary.
Not applicable To provide competitive post-retirement money purchase arrangement.
benefits, or the cash allowance equivalent, Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the executive Director is a former active member of to provide the opportunity for executives Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be made to some individuals the defined benefit pension plan.
Defined Contribution Money Purchase members whose contributions exceed the tosave for their retirement.
at alevel dependent upon seniority and length of service.
Cash supplements may be reduced local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, on pensionable salary, as a cash supplement, net of employer toreflect the additional employer social costs thereon.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, the contributions may Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of final bepaid to the executive, subject to taxes and social charges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group defined benefit pension plan which closed tofuture accrual in December 2014.
90 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance This section of the report details the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve Remuneration Policy atthe 2018 Annual General Meeting.
This policy will formally come into effect from 19 July 2018, being the date of the 2018 AGM, and is effective The Remuneration Policy is designed to promote the long-term interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives needed to for up to three years.
manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
The policy also seeks to reward achievement of stretching performance targets without driving unacceptable behaviours or encouraging Compliance statement excessive risk-taking.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the relevant The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration during the 2014 15 year coincident with the expiry of the life of the 2005 requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to directors Performance Share Plan.
It noted that there were aspects of the previous policy that work well and were therefore retained.
However, it also noted remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy and the Annual that both the Company and market practice have moved on in the three years since the last formal review.
Accordingly, it introduced changes to Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
the policy to reinforce the link between executive remuneration and the Companys long-term performance enhancing the executives alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 31 March 2018: plan interests awarded There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors, which are summarised in the table below.
during the year: pension entitlements: payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 91 Governance Remuneration policy continued Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year to ensure that the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for all executive Directors.
The bonus is based on To incentivise and focus management performance measures and their weightings remain appropriately aligned with the Groups the achievement of onthe achievement of an objective annual strategyand are sufficiently challenging.
financial performance target which is set to support the shorttargets, principally EVA.
tomedium-term strategy of the Group.
Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with reference to a range Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
Other financial measures ofrelevant reference points including the annual budget agreed by the Board.
At the end may supplement EVA oftheyear, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus at the discretion of the outcome within the limits of the scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance and Committee.
Such financial Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that is deferred for two years, toensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
measures must comprise with vesting normally subject to continued service.
at least 80% of the overall bonus opportunity.
The Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents are paid in cash or shares balance of 20% may be at the end of the vesting period.
utilised, at the Committees discretion, to support nonDeferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group and enhances the financial, but measurable, retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup overpayments in the event ofmisstatement, error or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to repay the requisite amount.
Executive Share Plan ESP Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares or a cash equivalent where Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of performance To incentivise executives to achieve required by regulations as determined by the Committee: awards vest after a period of at least three share awards is subject to superior returns to shareholders over years based on Group performance.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of an external candidate, the Committee may, continued employment athree-year period rewarding them initsabsolute discretion, exceed this maximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% of salary.
and the Companys for sustained performance against Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents are paid in cash or shares performance over a threechallenging long-term targets: to retain at the end of the vesting period, and only on those shares which vest.
Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the maximum award.
key individuals and align interests with To the extent performance shareholders, reflecting the sustainability A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup overpayments in the event conditions are not met, of the businessmodel over the long term ofmisstatement, error or misconduct, either through withholding future remuneration or requiring awards will lapse.
the executive to repay the requisite amount.
A mandatory two-year holding period for vested awards relating to awards granted after the 2018 AGM also aids recovery of overpayments as referenced above.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement.
It entitles all eligible UK-based employees to receive Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time to time.
Not applicable To encourage share ownership across Halma shares in a potentially tax-advantageous manner.
all UK-based employees using HMRCapproved schemes.
Chairman and non-executive Non-executive Director NED fees are determined by the Board and may comprise a base fee, Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset triennially.
Increases are effective from 1 April.
Not applicable Directorfees committee chairmanship fee and Senior Independent Director fee.
To attract individuals with the requisite The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and fees to NEDs are determined by the Board.
skills, experience and knowledge The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
Thefees are calculated by reference to market levels and take account of the time commitment and the tocontribute to the Board.
Notes to the Policy Table Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval andimplementation of the Remuneration Policy on 19 July 2018.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed definition is provided on page 99 reinforces the Groups business objective to double every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Goodor poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the ESP, EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment inwhich it operates.
Targets are calibrated taking into account a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Groups strategic plan.
92 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year to ensure that the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for all executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees Notes to the Policy Table Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels Payments from Existing Awards and the Companys ability to pay.
The Committee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval an upward ratchet.
andimplementation of the Remuneration Policy on 19 July 2018.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 93 Governance Remuneration policy continued External appointments In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills oftheindividual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over aperiod of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individuals development and performance intherole.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances andany necessary expenses relating to an executives relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution money purchase arrangements, receive a cash supplement or local equivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated toreflect the proportion of the year employed.
ESP New appointees will be granted performance awards under the ESP on the same terms as other executives, as described in the policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set out in the policy table, in exceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an incentive award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual or to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In making such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the remaining vesting period of these awards.
Internal Appointments Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy for external appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour those commitments.
Incentive opportunities for employees below Board level are generally no higher than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure they are appropriate.
Share Ownership Guidelines To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors toprogressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary 2014 15: 100%.
Until such time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any vested performance share award or deferred bonus share award.
Executive Director service contracts and exit payment policies It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised in the table below.
Contracts will be available for inspection at the AGM and throughout theyear at the Companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Andrew Williams April 2003 One year Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year Adam Meyers July 2008 One year Jennifer Ward January 2014 One year Kevin Thompson has resigned from his employment and as a Director with effect from 19 July 2018: as such he will not be seeking re-election to the Board at the 2018 AGM.
The Companys policy is to limit payments on cessation to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment ofanexecutive Director is terminated, any amount payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between theCompany and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
No predetermined amount is provided for in the Directors contracts.
The UK executive Director contracts enable the Company to pay up to one years salary in lieu of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and, under the rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the individuals leaving status for share plan vesting purposes.
If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual.
Adam Meyers service contract permits him to remain an employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related to employment.
The share plan and bonus provisions are identical totheUK.
Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they arefair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and share plans are treatedinspecific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan and the extent to which the Committee has discretion: 94 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Reason for leaving Timing of payment vesting Calculation of payment vesting Annual bonus Death, injury or disability, redundancy, After the end of the financial Performance against targets will be retirement, or any other reasons the year, although the Committee assessed at the end of the year in the Committee may determine hasdiscretion to accelerate normal way and any resulting bonus e. g. inrelation to death normally will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons No bonus is payable Deferred bonus Death, injury or disability, On the second anniversary Awards vest in full redundancy, retirement, oftheaward oranyother reasons the  All other reasons Awards lapse Share Plans Injury or disability, redundancy, On the third anniversary of Awards will normally be pro-rated orany other reason the Committee the award for time to the date of cessation may, at its discretion, determine of employment and performance metrics assessed as at the thirdanniversary Death Immediately unless otherwise Any outstanding awards normally determined by the Committee will be pro-rated for time and atitsdiscretion performance up to the point of death All other reasons Awards lapse Pay-for-performance The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between different elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: Fixed, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Halmas remuneration policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2018.
In the case of the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer elect and other executive Directors, this assumes a performance share award level of 200%, 175% and 150% ofsalary respectively which is the basis on which the policy will be applied in 2018 19.
The projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements and dividend equivalents.
The Fixed scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target level of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus and vesting of50% of a single years award under the ESP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum level of annual bonus and ESP awards.
Andrew Williams, Group Chief Executive Marc Ronchetti, Chief Financial O icer from 1 July 2018 Percentages amounts 000 Percentages amounts 000 Fixed Fixed 855 509 100% 100% On-target 2,096 On-target 1,246 41% 28% 31% 40% 30% 30% Maximum Maximum 3,141 1,858 27% 31% 42% 27% 34% 39% Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive Jennifer Ward, Group Talent and Medical & Environmental Communications Director Percentages amounts $000 Percentages amounts 000 Fixed Fixed 567 394 100% 100% On-target On-target 1,433 923 40% 33% 27% 43% 31% 26% Maximum 2,142 Maximum 1,355 26% 37% 37% 29% 36% 35% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 95 Governance Remuneration policy continued Non-executive Directors Unless otherwise indicated, all NEDs have a specific three-year term of engagement, subject to annual re-election at the AGM, which may berenewed for up to two further three-year terms if both the Director and the Board agree.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the NEDs isdetermined by the Committee and the Board respectively, in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders.
The contract in respect of the Chairmans services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of their services, which can be terminated without compensation, by either party, by giving not less than three months notice.
Contracts are available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Companys registered office.
Summary details ofterms and notice periods for NEDs are included below.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Paul Walker April 2013 6 months Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months Roy Twite July 2014 3 months Tony Rice August 2014 3 months Carole Cran January 2016 3 months Jo Harlow October 2016 3 months NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Companys pension plan or participate in any incentive schemes.
Any reasonable expenses that they incur in performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
Paul Walkers personal assistant is an employee of the Company.
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on pages 92 and 93.
NED recruitment In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on pages 92 and 93.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and best practice guidelines set by shareholder representative bodies.
As part of their consideration of the new remuneration policy, the Committee consulted widely with the Companys major institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
The Committee always welcomes feedback from shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy.
Detail on the votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on Remuneration at the previous annual general meeting is provided on page 97.
External directorships The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge to Halmas benefit.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these are retained by the executive Director.
Andrew Williams is a non-executive director of Capita plc.
KevinThompson is a non-executive director of RPC Group plc.
Fees paid to him during the year to 31 March 2018 were 32,000 2017: N A.
96 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
