Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 30 March 2018.
Halfords Group plc Registered Number 04457314 Registered Office Address Icknield Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE Country of Incorporation England and Wales Type Public Limited Company Statutory Information The Company has chosen in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 to provide disclosures and information in relation to a number of matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These matters, together with those required under the 2013 Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, are cross referenced in the following table: Topic Report Page Modern Slavery Statement Directors Report 55 Appointment and Removal of Directors Directors Report 52 Articles of Association Directors Report 54 Auditor Directors Report 55 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report 74 Authority for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Directors Report 54 Board of Directors Directors Report 52 Board Effectiveness and Leadership: Role and Composition of the Corporate Governance Report 56-68 Board and Committees: Meeting Attendance: Skills and Experience: Independence: Diversity: Induction and Development: Evaluation: Directors and their Other Interests: and Board Committees Branches outside of the UK Directors Report 55 Charitable Donations Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 24 Colleagues Involvement: Diversity: and Disability Directors Report 53 Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 24 Community Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 28 Compensation for Loss of Office Directors Report 53 Creditor Payment Policy Directors Report 55 Directors Biographies Board of Directors 48 Directors Indemnities Directors Report 53 Directors Interests Directors Report 52 Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy Summary Annual Remuneration Report 78-90 Directors Responsibility Statement Directors Report 91 Financial Instruments Note 21 to the Group Financial Statements 129 Future Developments of the Business Chief Executive's Statement 8 Financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 34-39 borrowing facilities Chief Financial Officers Review Gender Pay Gap Report Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 26 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 31 Going Concern Directors Report 54 Important Events Since Year End Directors Report 55 Independent Auditor Independent Auditors Report 94-99 Internal Controls and Risk Management Corporate Governance Report 66 Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report 70-71 50 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 Topic Report Page Political Donations Directors Report 54 Powers of the Directors Directors Report 52 Principal Activities Directors Report 52 Re-election of Directors Directors Report 52 Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors Report 53 Share Capital Directors Report 53 Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements 136 Significant Shareholders Directors Report 54 Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings Note 4 to the Company Financial Statements 146 Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 56-68 Strategic Report Strategic Report 12-44 Risk Management Strategic Report 40-44 Viability Statement Directors Report 55 Voting Rights Directors Report 53 Disclosures Required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following pages: Disclosure Page Long-term incentive schemes 79, 81, 83, Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan 85, 86 Waiver of Dividends 52 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 51 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Directors Report Principal Activities Appointment and Removal of a Director The principal activities of the Group are: the retailing of motoring, A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of cycling and leisure products and services: and garage servicing and shareholders in a general meeting following recommendation by the auto repair.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding Nomination Committee in accordance with its Terms of Reference as company.
The Companys registrar is Link Asset Services, The approved by the Board or by a member or members entitled to vote Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Profits and Dividends Director, provided that the individual retires at the next Annual The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated General Meeting: if they are to continue, they offer themselves for Income Statement on page 100.
The profit before tax on ordinary election.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain activities was 67.1m 2017: 71.4m and the profit after tax circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association or by amounted to 54.7m 2017: 56.4m.
The Board proposes that a final a special resolution of the Company.
dividend of 12.03 pence per ordinary share be paid on 31 August 2018 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members Powers of the Directors at the close of business on 27 July 2018.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of 6 pence per ordinary share paid on 19 Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given January 2018, makes a total for the year of 18.03 pence per ordinary by the Company by special resolution and any relevant statutes and share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders for the year is regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the estimated to be 35.5m.
Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of ordinary shares and Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, trustee of the Halfords the ability of the Company to purchase its own securities are also Employees Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
included within the Articles, and such authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each Performance Monitoring year.
The authorities conferred on the Directors at the 2017 Annual The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the General Meeting, held on 26 July 2017, will expire on the date of the Board through Key Performance Indicators KPIs and periodic 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Since the date of the 2017 Annual review of various aspects of the Groups operations.
The Group General Meeting, the Directors have not exercised any of their considers that the KPIs listed on pages 20 to 22 are appropriate powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary shares in the share capital of measures to assess the delivery of the Group's strategy.
Directors Directors Interests The following were Directors of the Company during the period The Directors interests in, and options over, ordinary shares in the ended 30 March 2018 and at the date of this Annual Report: Company are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 88.
Dennis Millard Since the end of the financial year and the date of this report, there have been no changes to such interests.
Graham Stapleton appointed 15 January 2018 Jonny Mason In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, David Adams interests that conflict with those of the Company unless that conflict Claudia Arney is first authorised by the Board.
Helen Jones The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of Jill McDonald resigned 29 September 2017 interest.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest, so the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons that if approved, a Director will not be in breach of his her duty under holding office as a Director of the Company on 30 March 2018 company law.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2018 Annual 2006, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in General Meeting AGM, with the exception of Dennis Millard who which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that will be stepping down at the date of the AGM.
Graham Stapleton, who conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company was appointed on 15 January 2018, together with Keith Williams, a situational conflict.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the new Chairman, will stand for election for the first time at the 2018 any changes to their conflicts of interest and the register is updated AGM.
On 27 March 2018, it was announced that Jonny Mason, Chief Financial Officer resigned from the business to take up the position as Group Finance Director at Dixons Carphone plc.
Jonny will remain as Chief Financial Officer until the end of his notice period in September 2018.
The process for the appointment of his successor is under way.
52 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 The Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of Directors Indemnities discrimination, harassment and bullying in all aspects of its business Directors and Officers insurance has been established for all operations.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place for Directors and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable reporting and dealing with such matters.
actions on behalf of the Company.
The Directors of the Company and the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of a third-party Whistleblowing indemnity provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
The Group is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity, and it expects all colleagues to maintain high standards in accordance with its corporate culture.
An understanding of Colleague Involvement openness and accountability is essential in order to prevent illegal or The Group places significant emphasis upon colleague unethical conduct or malpractice and to enable any such situations engagement at all levels and has an established framework of to be addressed should they ever occur.
The Group Whistleblowing colleague communications providing colleagues with regular Policy and Procedure the Whistleblowing Policy is annually information on business performance and other relevant matters.
reviewed and communicated to all colleagues around the Group This framework facilitates and encourages the engagement of and enables colleagues to report concerns on matters affecting every colleague through a programme of regular conferences, the Group or their employment, without fear of recrimination.
The monthly magazines, team meetings and huddles and a weekly blog Whistleblowing Policy sets out how concerns may be raised and from the CEO.
In addition, the Group undertakes its own annual when response can be expected from the Company.
colleague engagement survey and participates in the external Best Companies survey which is published by the Sunday Times.
Further Share Capital and Shareholder Voting Rights information on colleague engagement is included in the CSR Report on page 25.
Details of the Companys share capital and of the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in note 22 on page 136.
All ordinary shares, including those acquired through Company share Colleague Training and Development schemes and plans, rank equally with no special rights.
The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging all colleagues to be responsive to the needs of its All shareholders are entitled to attend and speak at the general customers and continually improve operational performance.
This meetings of the Company, appoint proxies, receive any dividends, is delivered through a range of structured training and development exercise voting rights and transfer shares without restriction.
On a programmes, across the Group, in Retail, Autocentres, Performance show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person Cycling, Boardman and Cycle Republic.
The Group also continues shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person to invest in its apprenticeship programme.
Further information or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There on colleague training and development, and the apprenticeship are no known arrangements that may restrict the transfer of shares programme can be found on page 25 of the CSR Report.
In addition, the Group runs a Leadership Development programme, The Company has revolving credit facilities that require the Company called Aspire, to identify and develop colleagues across the Group, in the event of a change of control to notify the facility agent and, if with potential to be our leaders of the future.
This continues our drive required by the majority lenders, these facilities may be cancelled.
to develop and therefore, possibly promote from within.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that would provide compensation for loss of office or Colleague Diversity and Disabled Persons employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and Deferred Bonus Plan may cause There is a Group Diversity Policy which is reviewed annually by the options and awards granted to Directors and colleagues under such Board.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
in recruitment, training, career development and promotion for all colleagues, potential colleagues or contractors.
This commitment Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 23 on to equality of opportunity applies regardless of anyones physical pages 136 to 139. ability, gender, sexual orientation or gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, race, religious beliefs, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications from people with disabilities wherever suitable opportunities exist, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should a colleague become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their continued employment with the Group, with retraining being provided if necessary.
com 53 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Directors Report Significant Shareholders Articles of Association As at 30 April 2018, this being the latest practicable date, the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Company has been notified pursuant to Disclosure Guidance and Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the Transparency Rule 5 of the following interests representing 3% or Companys shareholders in a general meeting.
more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Political Donations % of Number issued The Group made no political donations and incurred no political Holder of shares shares expenditure during the year FY17: nil.
It remains the Companys Jupiter Asset Management Limited UK 20,549,795 10.32 policy not to make political donations or to incur political Schroders Plc 17,310,181 8.69 expenditure.
However, the application of the relevant provisions of Wise Investments Ltd UK 10,797,000 5.42 the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as J O Hambro Capital Management UK 10,731,015 5.39 last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that Rathbones 8,904,014 4.47 the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result Norges Bank Investment Management 7,978,058 4.01 of the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has no Dimensional Fund Advisors 7,772,290 3.90 intention of using this authority.
HSBC Global Asset Management 7,513,337 3.77 Wellington Management Company 7,161,795 3.60 Going Concern Aberforth Partners LLP SC 6,818,647 3.42 The Group has a 200m revolving credit facility, ending in September BlackRock Inc 6,279,367 3.15 2021 with a one-year extension option to September 2022.
At the year end, the Group had undrawn borrowing facilities of 116m 2017: 97m.
The Groups current committed borrowing facilities Authority to Purchase Shares contain certain financial covenants, which have been met throughout At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a the period.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show of 19,911,663 shares, representing not greater than 10% of the that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its Companys issued share capital at 1 June 2017, such authority borrowing facilities and covenants for the foreseeable future.
As a expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed in 2018 or, if earlier, on 30 September 2018. to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Transactions with Related Parties continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, hence During the period, the Company did not enter into any material they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in transactions with any related parties.
54 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 supply chain have been positive and the completed replies have Viability Statement identified good levels of compliance and have not unearthed any In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance adverse findings.
Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a three-year period to 2 April 2021.
The Directors believe The Modern Slavery Statement is annually reviewed by the Board of this period to be appropriate as the Companys strategic planning Directors and was last approved on 29 September 2017. encompasses this period, and because it is a reasonable period over which the impact of key risks can be assessed within a fast-moving Creditor Payment Policy retail business.
The Group does not follow any formal Code of Practice on payment.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be Instead it agrees terms and conditions for transactions when orders able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for goods or services are placed, and includes relevant terms in at least until 2 April 2021.
As is customary when dealing with longer contracts, as appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when term debt facilities, the Board would expect these to be renewed well making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met in advance of their next term.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding as at 30 March 2018 for the Group was 66 days 2017: 59 days.
The In making this statement, the Directors have reviewed the overall Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: a robust assessment of the impact, likelihood and management Branches of principal risks facing the Group, including consideration The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in the of those risks that could threaten its business model, future different countries in which they operate.
performance, solvency or liquidity or sustainability.
The assessment of viability has specifically considered risks that Auditor could threaten the Groups day-to-day operations and existence.
The Companys Auditor is KPMG LLP.
A resolution proposing the The assessment considered how risks could affect the business reappointment of KPMG LLP is expected to be in the Notice of now, and how they may develop over three years: and the Annual General Meeting and will be put to shareholders at the financial analysis and forecasts showing current financial meeting.
position and performance, cash flow projections, dividend strategy, funding requirements and funding facilities.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor More details of key risks, mitigations and assessment processes are In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, set out on pages 40 to 44. each Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved confirms that: Modern Slavery Statement i. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group operates retail stores across the UK and Ireland and information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and garages throughout the UK.
The products the Group sells are ii.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken sourced from a broad range of national and international suppliers.
as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any Many of those international supplier relationships are sourced and relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys managed by a dedicated Halfords Global Sourcing HGS team Auditor is aware of that information.
based in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Shanghai During the financial year, the Group updated its Ethical Trading Important Events Since Year End Statement, which details how its complies with the legislation On 22 May 2018, it was announced that Keith Williams will be joining which is applicable to Ethical Trading, and sets out the standards Halfords as Chairman on 24 July 2018. expected of its suppliers.
This is particularly in regard to conditions of employment, wages and benefits, child labour, human trafficking, Annual General Meeting AGM as well as health and safety and environmental policy.
To ensure that The AGM will be held at the Hilton Garden Inn, 1 Brunswick Square, policies and standards are communicated as effectively as possible, Brindleyplace, Birmingham, B1 2HW on Tuesday 24 July 2018.
The the Group follows a dual strategy: Notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the ordinary and 1. requiring suppliers to confirm compliance with relevant special business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate legislation, which includes the Modern Slavery Act 2015 via an circular to shareholders.
annual Supplier Compliance Declaration : and By order of the Board 2. the establishment of a specific Code of Conduct which primarily Tim OGorman applies to the organisations that supply the goods sold by the Group Company Secretary Group.
These suppliers are the ones that deal mainly with the 22 May 2018 Global Sourcing Operation, HGS.
Furthermore, the Group has amended its terms of business when purchasing Goods For Resale so that the contracts now oblige suppliers to comply with their obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Act.
The responses from suppliers to the audit of the STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 55 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
