Strategic Report Digital & Innovation Halma has a clear digital strategysupported by leaders andaculture able to change andinvent the new.
Halma has always had a decentralised New ways to support our growth business model that enables us to be agile, For a long time we have supported our tothink and act quickly.
These strengths companies growth by focusing mainly 3 present a unique opportunity for us as oncore growth activities.
R&D investment, Halma teams have already talent development and the regional hubs we enter the Fourth Industrial Revolution, participated in our Digital have all supported this core growth.
wherenew technologies are combining growth sprints programme.
fasterthan ever before and the face of business is rapidly changing.
The introduction of new Innovation and Digital growth engines, add a new way ofthinking that will accelerate the growth ofour existing As part of our new Halma 4.0 growth strategy, 6 we are building on our core business by businesses, moving them further along the developing digital capabilities both within digital playing field.
Halma teams have Halma and with carefully selected external alreadygone through partners, to help us take advantage of Some of our companies are already ourConvergence thisdigital future.
established in the digital market and have Acceleratorprogramme.
developed digital technology and new business models to enable them to scale quickly.
However, many of our companies have yet to establish themselves as digital businesses and the opportunity to learn from their peers and design their own digital technology is an exciting new growthopportunity.
CASE STUDY Digital Growth Sprint Ocean Optics participated in one of our first digital growth sprint programmes aiming to take their internal startup, Wave, to the next level.
Wave provides handheld spectrometry for customers, such as architects and lighting designers, that need to be able tocharacterise light sources andtheir impact in situ.
What began as a smartphone plugin with an app to help customers measure and log data in real-time, is now a Cloud solution that allows them to access and analyse their dataanywhere, anytime.
During the digital growth sprint, the Wave team met with disruptive innovators in the lighting industry to help to hone their digital business model and capabilities.
34 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report The EyeRisio team working on their Convergence pitch Cultivating an innovation mindset Digital isnt just about the technology.
Building the right culture and mindset to let innovation flourish is just as important.
So we are also designing new ways of working that support all of our companies and encourage greater collaboration and experimentation.
This year we have introduced a number of different initiatives both to support our digital growth and to build an innovation mindset across the Group.
Launching Digital growth engines We completed the first round of Digital Growth Sprints with three Halma companies which helped accelerate one of their existing digital business opportunities.
CASE STUDY In addition, we launched our first Convergence Accelerator programme at the Convergence Accelerator end of 2017.
An impressive 24 applications were made with ideas from teams made up from at least two companies across Halma.
Six Halma Convergence teams from Six teams were selected and after just a few Our first Convergence acrossthe Group came together in January months intensive work, they pitched their 2018 to start developing compelling new ideas to the Halma leadership team at our programme saw six business ideas that they hoped would win annual conference in Boston, USA.
Four teams from across the backing of the judges at the final pitch teams were successful and will now build on session in April 2018. their work to date supported by seed funding.
Halma developing Each team took on different challenges, but We are creating a culture where andrefining new ideas all were united in solving a problem that was resourcefulness is encouraged and rewarded.
that could use digital not only profitable, but also had a positive We use our internal online communications impact that aligned with Halmas Purpose.
platform, HalmaHub, to share stories and business models collective success, ask questions, as well as Successful examples included the Digital highlighting the obstacles that employees andscale quickly.
Water team who are looking at ways to have powered through to achieve results.
revolutionise digital sensors for the water industry, EyeRisio who are focused on ways to Building our Digital ecosystem improve Diabetic Retinopathy diagnosis, and Through the Convergence Accelerator, digital Bloodchain who want to transform healthcare growth sprints and go and see visits to global through smart, connected technologies.
hotspots such as Singapore, Shenzhen and Tel Aviv, we are proactively identifying the These are just some examples of how we are gaps in our digital capabilities and assets.
We using new Digital & Innovation programmes are then bridging these through partnerships, to leverage our existing talent and technology collaboration, external experts, talent and combine it with analytics to solve andcrowdsourcing.
Our success will continue to rely on Over empowered and ambitious people, ready to seize new opportunities.
We can amplify this by continuing to build our unique ecosystem, realising that by working together we can find 9 4m untapped opportunities, fulfil our purpose people suffer from Diabetic and achieve even higher rates of growth.
Retinopathyglobally Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 35
