Our Business Model Effective utilisation of our resources and relationships are an integral part of our plan to drive long-term sustainable growth.
Our resources and relationships form the inputs to our business model, which are utilised and transformed in the process of value creation.
The outputs of our business model are detailed on the opposite page and throughout the report.
Through the expertise of our partners and We are able to leverage the Halfords brand... well-trained colleagues... Halfords is the nations go-to-retailer for motorists and cyclists.
We have a range of exclusive and highly-regarded brands including Training and accreditation, such as our 3-Gears training Apollo, Carrera and Boardman in Cycling, as well as our Halfords programme in Retail or our electric hybrid vehicle maintenance Advanced ranges in Motoring.
training in Autocentres, ensures that consistent product knowledge and service reaches our customers across all locations.
2 1 4 3 Through our portfolio of convenient Retail stores... to delight our customers every time and Autocentres, efficient distribution network We aim to grow our business by attracting more customers, and agile, user-friendly websites... encouraging them to buy more products and services, and persuading them to visit our stores and Autocentres more often.
We want to create a compelling shopping experience that To do this we make four promises: excites customers, improves their knowledge of our products and services, and engages them emotionally with our brand.
Prices you can trust Quality you can trust Our ambition is to create a service-led, fully integrated digital Range you can rely on Service that wows proposition which will maintain our ongoing relevance.
14 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Our model is underpinned by our financial discipline, astute purchasing and strategic reinvestments.
We are a cash generative business and are well supported by our banking syndicate, having amended and extended our debt facility in the year.
Our integrated approach to sustainability keeps economic, social and environmental considerations in mind, as well as the material issues of our stakeholder groups to inform our model and operations.
Outputs Financial Resources Brand Generating returns to our shareholders through effective Developing our brand through innovation and expertise.
management of our financial resources.
Read the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 34 to 39 Colleagues Physical and IT Infrastructure Maintaining and developing our infrastructure and sales Developing, rewarding and retaining our circa 10,000 colleagues channels to strengthen competitive advantages.
so that they are engaged and driving our long-term sustainable growth ambitions.
Read more about the 3 Gears training programme on page 29 Community Environment Building relationships with suppliers, customers and the The environmental resources that Halfords utilises communities around us.
Read more in the Corporate Social Read more in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 24 to 32 Responsibility section on pages 24 to 32 This icon is used to indicate content on the outputs of the business model.
com 15 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
