Strategic Report Business Review Medical We create products that enhance quality of life forpatients and improve quality ofcareforproviders.
The areas in which we operate Patient care Provider solutions Ophthalmology Diagnostics Surgical instruments and diagnostic Pumps, probes, valves and devices to assess eye health and connectors used by OEMs and assist with eye surgery.
laboratories for demanding fluid handling applications.
Patient assessment Diagnostic devices for everyday and Sensors specialised healthcare, including Real time location monitoring blood pressure monitoring.
systems to improve quality of care, safety and operational efficiency inhospitals and healthcare facilities.
26 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Highlights Revenue % of Group Performance KPIs 2018 Group target 1 Revenue growth 8.9% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 7.2% 5% 1 Profit growth 0.4% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 0.4 % 5% 26% 2 Return on Sales 23.6% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 4.1% 4% Contribution to Group m 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 5 % of Adjusted operating profit Revenue 284 261 199 169 163 5 Profit 67 67 52 45 42 4 5 1 Revenue and adjusted operating profit are compared to the equivalent prioryearfigures.
4 5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted operating profit expressed asapercentage of revenue.
3 R&D expenditure expressed as a percentage of revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items andrestructuring costs see note 1 to theAccounts.
28% 4 5 Adjusted operating profit before central administration costs after share of associate.
4 5 6 Adjusted operating profit and organic growth rates are alternative performance measures used by management.
See notes 1 and 3 to theAccounts.
Sector progress summary Market trends and growth drivers Medical Sector The sector delivered record revenue The increasing demand for global healthcare and profit.
Revenue grew in all our major continues to be supported by: geographies.
While revenue growth was 284m strong in both the first and second half of worldwide population ageing and the year, first half profitability was below increasing life expectancy Revenue expectations due to higher spending on sales, increasing global prevalence of chronic marketing and new product development illnesses such as diabetes, obesity, and lower gross margin caused by mix.
After hypertension and cancer addressing both, the second half delivered new medical diagnostic and surgical 67m improved profitability, resulting in a full technologies 5 year Return on Sales of 23.6% and profit increased healthcare access in Adjusted operating profit marginallyup.
developingeconomies Revenue for the year grew 8.9% as The world population is expected to increase reported and 7.2% on an organic constant by 1 billion by 2025 with 300 million of that currencybasis.
increase in the over 65 category.
Ageing population is a key driver for growth in our R&D spending grew by 4.0%, remaining at the medical portfolios focused in Ophthalmology, prior year level of 4.1% of revenue and added Patient Assessment and Diagnostics due to new capabilities to our teams.
the increased prevalence of significant health risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension Return on Capital Employed and cash and cancer and the increased demand for production continued above Group targets.
healthcare services as age increases.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 27 Strategic Report Business Review continued Medical continued Age is associated with complex functional With increased ageing, the demand for regulatory mandates.
Therefore, our growth changes in the eye which can ultimately acute care and long-term care facilities also strategies will continue to vary by region.
result in development of eye diseases such increases with more healthcare facilities as cataract, diabetic eye disease, glaucoma, under pressure to improve patient outcomes, Performance dry eye and low vision.
Portable and easy reduce costs, improve throughput and ensure The Medical sector grew revenue by 8.9% to use diagnostic screening tools provide safety of staff and patients.
The global market to 284m 2017: 261m and profit by 0.4% early screening to identify eye disease so for real-time location systems, which assist to 67m 2017: 67m.
Organic constant that patients can gain treatment, slowing inthese applications, is forecast to grow at currency revenue growth was stronger than down progression and possibly preventing 24% per year between 2016 and 2022. the prior year at 7% 2017: 4%.
Cataract surgery is one of the organic constant currency profit growth most frequent surgical operations carried Strategy was below expectations, declining 6% due out worldwide, with more than 25 million The Medical sector is focused on enhancing mostly to investments in sales, marketing operations annually.
The growing and ageing the quality of life for patients and improving andinnovation.
Second half organic constant global population increases demand for the quality of care delivered by providers.
currency profit growth rebounded to 4% diagnostic and surgical applications and growth as overhead growth slowed and positions our Ophthalmology businesses We serve niche applications in global goodrevenue growth continued.
forcontinued growth in the future.
By investing in our current portfolio and acquiring additional companies, we We delivered revenue growth in all major International product registration aim tocontinue to deliver growth rates regions with the USA ahead 8%, Europe up requirements continue to increase with at, orabove Group targets.
6%, the UK 3% higher and Asia Pacific ahead a growing diversity of requirements by 4%.
South & Central America increased geography.
This is increasing time and cost Key sector strategic initiatives to by 46% bolstered by our acquisition to market for much of the world, but provides increasegrowth organically and via ofCardiosinBrazil.
barriers to entry for new entrants.
We acquisition include: continue to build local expertise in this area The sector continues to deliver high returns.
recruiting and retaining high calibre, Return on Sales remained high at 23.6% diversified talent 2017:25.6%.
Return on Capital Employed Currently, one in every three US adults has increasing collaboration to drive and cash generation was also strong.
high blood pressure and only half of these geographic expansion and product individuals have their condition under control.
development with a high focus on We completed two acquisitions.
These A further one third have prehypertension dataand digital solutions businesses delivered encouraging second which means they should continue to have increasing R&D investment to adapt half performances and will contribute to their blood pressure monitored by the type to quickly changing market needs sector growth in the years ahead.
of products made by our Patient Assessment andrespond to increased ageing companies.
In Brazil, hypertension is an population trends Outlook important public health problem with acquiring businesses in both core In the medium term, we expect our Patient population-based studies showing a andadjacent market niches.
care and Provider solutions segments to hypertension prevalence of 35%.
Cardios, outperform the market with rising revenue our recent acquisition in Brazil, focuses Geographic trends driven by product innovation and increased on hypertension and cardiac monitoring The global medical device market is expected penetration in key markets.
The impact of in the ambulatory market, providing to continue to grow at 5% through to 2021. global population growth and ageing on new opportunities for our global Patient North America will remain the largest market thehealthcare market will continue as key Assessment businesses.
for medical device technologies, growing drivers of our growth.
In the Asia Pacific market, growth is The increasing prevalence of lifestyleforecast to continue above 7%, with Europe We will continue to build our acquisition connected and chronic disease is driving recovering at 5% through to 2021. targets pipeline within existing and adjacent growth in the in-vitro diagnostics and niches, and expect continued growth laboratory testing markets served by our However, geographic variations in the global from the businesses acquired.
This market is medical device market continue due to local the profit and revenue momentum from projected to grow at 5.5% through to 2021. economic conditions, government spending the second half, should position us well programmes, currency fluctuations and tomakeprogressin 2018 19.
28 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Global causes of death 2016 million people Cardiovascular disease Cancers Respiratory disease Diabetes Dementia Lower respiratory infections Neonatal disease Diarrheal disease Road incidents Liver disease 5 10 15 20 CASE STUDY Cardios Cardios designs and manufactures life-saving Cardios CardioLight digital ambulatory electrocardiogram recorders and holtersystem blood pressure monitors.
In helping to monitor According to the World Health Organization, the heart health of patients, the discrete around 17.7 million deaths worldwide are CardioLight monitor records the electrical attributed to cardiovascular disease each year.
activity of the patient over a period of 24 hours.
That accounts for 31% of all global deaths.
This small device records cardiovascular In the USA alone, it is reported that one person activity as the patient carries on with their dies every 40 seconds from a cardiovascular normal daily life, transmitting the results related diseases approximately 80% of deaths inreal-time to healthcare providers.
are caused by heart attacks and strokes.
Ergonomically designed and weighing only Halma provides life-saving equipment to 62 grams, the CardioLight monitor is barely help cardiologists and general practitioners noticeable and does not interfere with the to diagnose and prevent heart and blood patients normal routine.
vessel related diseases like heart attacks, heart 1 7.
deaths worldwide attributed to cardiovascular disease Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 29
