Corporate Governance report Overseeing the strategy The Board sets the strategy, governance and values of the Group and has ultimate responsibility for its management, direction and performance.
Dear Shareholders As announced in July 2018, Jean-Philippe Board changes Mouton stepped down from the Board on Peter Cole stepped down from the Board at I am pleased to present the Corporate 31 December 2018.
I would like to thank the end of the year, after a career at Governance report for 2018.
As in previous Jean-Philippe for his contribution and Hammerson spanning 30 years.
Peter led our years this report should be read in invaluable French perspective which he has major regeneration and development conjunction with the section on how we have brought to the Boards discussions and work projects, including The Oracle, Reading, complied with the UK Corporate Governance during his tenure as a Director.
I am pleased Westquay, Southampton, Bullring, Code on pages 108 to 112. that Jean-Philippe will continue to lead Birmingham and Victoria, Leeds, all of which our French business as Managing Director It has been a challenging year for have helped to establish Hammerson as a and be responsible for Group marketing, and Hammerson.
Pressure on the retail sector leading developer of destinations.
During he will remain a member of the Group intensified and the outlook became more Peters time with us he has also been Executive Committee.
uncertain, leading the Board to withdraw responsible for the Companys major from the intu acquisition, while the weakness acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures, Terry Duddy resigned as a Non-Executive in Hammersons share price attracted an including the acquisition of the Irish portfolio Director on 25 January 2019.
Terry served indicative offer for the Company from and the disposal in 2018 of 50% of Highcross, on the Board for nine years and as the Senior Klpierre, which the Board rejected.
Peter will continue in his role as Independent Director from April 2015.
Board spent a great deal of time during 2018 Chief Investment Officer until 30 April 2019 Iwould like to thank Terry for the significant reviewing and developing the strategy against when he will formally retire.
I would like to contribution he has made to the Board.
the backdrop of these difficult market thank Peter for his significant contribution to conditions, and you can read more about how I am delighted that Gwyn Burr has accepted the Board and the Company and wish him the Board approached this on page 73.
I am the role of Senior Independent Director well in retirement.
confident that the strategy will enable the following Terrys departure.
Gwyn has strong Following Peters retirement he will continue business to deliver value for our shareholders commercial and shareholder relations to support the business by providing in these challenging times.
You can read more experience and the right personal qualities to investment and development-related about our markets and strategy on pages support me in this additional capacity.
I am very pleased to welcome Carol Welch who Bourgeois, Managing Director, UK and has been appointed to the Board with effect Ireland, will take responsibility for our from 1 March 2019.
Her recruitment process is development and project management teams described in the Nomination Committee and Simon Travis, Group Investment report on page 77.
Carol has extensive Director, will lead the investment team.
64 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report Engagement with stakeholders remains an important priority for Hammerson.
code and industry best practice.
We have reviewed and published updated versions of the matters reserved for the Board and terms of reference for the Committees of the Board.
The Board has established a new Investment and Disposal Committee to provide additional oversight and focus on the Companys disposal initiatives.
The Committee will be chaired by Andrew Formica and joined by Pierre Bouchut.
The two further new Non-Executive Directors who we plan to appoint in 2019 will also join this Committee.
During 2019 we are increasing our employee engagement and I am pleased to report that Judy Gibbons is our nominated Director for employee engagement matters, in accordance with the new code.
Stakeholder views Engagement with our stakeholders remains an important priority for Hammerson and assists us in understanding their opinions.
Our stakeholders views are a key consideration for the Board when making business decisions.
More information on how the Board considers stakeholders is on page 74 and details of how the Board engaged with shareholders regarding Hammersons reshaped strategy are on page 73. experience in the fields of marketing and Board is committed to maintaining the highest brand, together with leisure and hospitality.
A Committed colleagues She will bring both an occupier perspective as testament to this is that Hammerson won two well as a deep understanding of changing ICSA awards for our 2017 Annual Report, The past year has been the most challenging consumer tastes to the Board.
I believe that Annual Report of the Year in the FTSE 250 for Hammerson in recent years and has seen this will allow her to make a significant category and Remuneration Report of the the business and the retail sector face up to a contribution and I very much look forward to Year.
This is an important achievement as the period of profound structural change.
working with her in the coming year.
annual ICSA awards recognise and celebrate Despite the challenges, my fellow Directors, excellence in governance and annual management and colleagues have remained Following Carol Welchs appointment we reporting.
I am very proud of the report and focused and positive.
I would like to pay have reached 37.5% women on the Board would like to thank the team that produces it.
tribute to their continued drive and which means that we have exceeded our enthusiasm.
I feel confident we are gender diversity target of having at least one Advisors well-placed to meet the challenges in third women on the Board by 2020.
In 2019, the Board appointed Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc as the Companys During 2019, we intend to appoint two further Joint Corporate Broker to replace Deutsche Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
The Board has also decided to can read more about this in the Nomination Chair of the Board tender the Groups valuation instruction, Committee report on pages 76 and 77. currently undertaken by Cushman & Wakefield LLP, as this process was last Board effectiveness review undertaken in late 2011.
Another important annual exercise is the UK Corporate Governance Board effectiveness review.
I am pleased that Corporate governance Code the anonymised feedback confirms my view The Financial Reporting Council published an that the Board continues to work effectively The Company has complied in full during updated UK Corporate Governance Code in and has the right skills and experience to 2018 and to the date of this report with July 2018, which applies to Hammerson from support the business.
The main findings of the provisions of the UK Corporate 1 January 2019.
We have reviewed the the review are available on page 75.
Governance Code published in April requirements of the new code and we are 2016.
The code is available on the website confident that we will be able to report next ICSA awards of the Financial Reporting Council at year that the Company is compliant with this www.
At Hammerson we are constantly striving to improve our reporting to stakeholders and the www.
