Letter from the Chair of the Board Decisive action to position the business well for the future A strengthening balance sheet today will allow us to address the immediate challenge in todays retail market, while taking the steps needed to seize tomorrows opportunities.
The events of the second half of 2018 A challenged environment Our results demonstrated that we made the right This has undoubtedly been a difficult year Our objective is to maximise shareholder decision.
Retailers came under increasing for Hammerson shareholders, who have seen value over the medium to long term.
We took pressure during this period, leading to our share price drop substantially amid a decisive set of actions during 2018 with this significant falls in retail property share prices seismic changes in the broader retail sector.
in mind and I firmly believe that we ended the in the UK and Europe.
It has also been a challenging year for all year with a stronger set of foundations, albeit Hammerson colleagues.
Our business delivered In addition, in March, we received an approach a resilient performance this year despite the from Klpierre.
Although no formal bid was The key reason for the adverse share price headwinds we faced.
received, the Board carefully considered the performance is the increased pressure UK two outline proposals made.
Following retailers have experienced during the year.
We incurred an IFRS loss in 2018 of consultation with major shareholders, we They are facing a multitude of headwinds 268million.
Adjusted earnings for the year concluded that the proposals very including the growth of online, rising costs, decreased 6 million from last year to significantly undervalued Hammerson, and macro-economic pressures, and the challenge 240million, with the adverse effect of Klpierre withdrew its approach.
of integrating online and physical assets.
disposals being partly mitigated by lower These pressures have been exacerbated by a costs and higher profits in premium outlets.
A reshaped strategy lack of confidence amongst businesses and Adjusted earnings per share fell 1.6% to 30.6p.
Following these events, we undertook a consumers, who have held off making long In 2018, equity shareholders funds fell by comprehensive strategic review of the term decisions due to the broader political 9.8% to 5,433 million.
EPRA net asset value business, part of which included further and economic uncertainty, particularly as a per share was 738p at year end, down 4.9% on significant engagement with our major result of Brexit.
All this has created a weaker December 2017, with the impact of the shareholders to ensure that we fully investment market for retail property.
This is portfolio valuation decline being slightly understood their wider aspirations for the evidenced in the 10.7% reduction in the value mitigated by the share buyback programme.
This was a key component in our of Hammersons UK assets over 2018.
Our headline loan to value ratio was 38% at decision making.
As a December 2018, up 200 basis points on 2017. consequence demand has weakened and At our Half Year Results inJuly we set out our there has been very little transaction evidence The Board has proposed a final dividend of reshaped strategy alongside a decisive plan to across the retail property sector during the 14.8p per share, bringing the total dividend to create a portfolio of flagship destinations.
However, given that we have deployed 25.9p, up 1.6% on last year.
Wefirmly believe that focusing on venues of our capital wisely over the years to diversify the highest quality is the best way to deliver our portfolio and dilute risk, shareholders Taking the right actions for the for shareholders and outperform in the have benefited from the fact that nearly half changing market context.
long term of our assets are outside of the UK.
Shareholders will remember that we In establishing our strategy, we left no stone Despite these challenges, it is important that we announced a plan to acquire intu in December unturned.
We undertook extensive research keep sight of the long-term opportunities in our 2017.
As a result of the rapid change in the to ensure that our thinking was based on the sector.
These include markets, the Board decided in April 2018 to very latest insights into consumer and retailer the outperformance of luxury sales, the growth withdraw from the transaction.
We had needs, both now and into the future.
We took of thriving European cities and the rising concluded that short term prospects for the a long, hard look at the business and made consumer appetite for exceptional experiences.
joint businesses looked less attractive, and the some tough decisions on the future of our We are committed to seizing these heightened risks outweighed the long-term portfolio.
opportunities, while dealing with the other benefits that could be expected from the challenges we face.
acquisition, especially when compared to the other strategic options open to the Company.
See page 10 for more In particular, the success of the transaction information.
depended on extensive UK disposals.
2 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Letter from the Chair of the Board At the time of writing, less than a month before the UKs planned departure from the EU, we stilldo not have any clarity about these future relationships.
This uncertainty adversely affects both business and consumer confidence.
Irrespective of the political environment, we believe that the longer term merits of Hammersons portfolio of flagship venues will underpin our future in the UK.
In the meantime, the diversified nature of our business is going some way to offset the challenging conditions in our home market.
48% of our assets are outside of the UK, where we are seeing greater buoyancy in consumer confidence with fewer constraints on spending.
Our top priority during 2019 is to reduce our indebtedness by continuing to sell assets.
This will put us in a strong position for the future with a robust balance sheet.
This is a key component of our strategy.
Hammerson has a talented and committed team of colleagues, and the Board is extremely appreciative of everyone who has worked tirelessly during a period of substantial change and disruption, and continues to do so as we navigate the current political We are confident that our sharpened focus Our unique exposure to the European uncertainty and continued headwinds on Europes growing cities will allow us to premium outlets market once again delivered inretail.
navigate this ongoing period of structural a strong performance and the fundamental change.
drivers for this distinct retail segment remain I would especially like to thank Board very strong as the tourist-led shopping trip is colleagues who have made significant As a result of the strategic review, we took the much less impacted by the headwinds facing contributions during their time with us.
decision to exit our retail parks portfolio over the broader retail sector.
PeterCole stepped down from the Board at the medium term, focusing our future solely the end of 2018 and, after 30 years with on flagship destinations and premium outlets.
An additional key component of the strategy Hammerson, will retire in 2019.
Since July, we have undertaken a further is our City Quarters concept, which will take Jean-Philippe Mouton also stood down from portfolio-wide review to accelerate our flagship destinations to the next level by the Board: he continues to manage the French transactions and have identified additional leveraging our existing land interests and business and Group marketing.
Finally, Terry disposal opportunities across all our sectors creating vibrant city neighbourhoods.
Duddy resigned from the Board in early 2019 and territories.
Having executed a successful after nine years, with the last three as Senior Looking ahead 570m disposal programme in 2018, we have Independent Director.
We also welcomed a disposal target in excess of 500m in 2019.
Carol Welch to the Board and she joins from As a Board, 2018 saw us navigate a challenging We are open-minded about the upper limit of 1st March 2019. political and economic backdrop and a tough the disposal programme and we are in active retail environment.
We took major decisions See page 64 for further discussions on transactions which have a total to position the business for the future and the information.
Board remains confident in Hammersons At this time of intense challenge, we are standalone strengths.
We will continue to taking deliberate, considered steps to develop review and evaluate our strategy to ensure our capabilities.
The actions we are taking weare on the right path.
We are confident that now will allow us to deliver the kind of vibrant our sharpened focus The retail sector is going through a profound spaces that successful cities demand and successful brands require, while ensuring structural shift, affected by an increase in on Europes growing online consumer spending and exacerbated in through our disposal programme that we cities will allow us to have the balance sheet strength to navigate the UK and Ireland by the potential impact of Brexit.
Business leaders in the UK have any further disruption in our markets.
navigate this period stressed the need for clarity in the UKs future of structural change.
economic relationships since the outcome of David Tyler the referendum in 2016.
