Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This section of the Corporate Governance Table 82 Report details the Companys application of Board and Committee meetings attendance the principles and compliance with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Scheduled Additional Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Code the Code published in Board Board Committee Committee Committee 3 meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings April 2016 which is available at www.
David Tyler 7 7 8 8 4 4 4 4 This section should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a David Atkins 7 7 8 8 whole, which is set out on pages 64 to 114.
Peter Cole 7 7 8 8 Timon Drakesmith 7 7 7 8 The Company has complied in full with the Jean-Philippe Mouton 7 7 8 8 requirements of the Code in 2018.
Work has Pierre Bouchut 7 7 7 8 5 5 4 4 also been undertaken during the year to meet the requirements of the updated UK Gwyn Burr 7 7 6 8 5 5 4 4 4 4 Corporate Governance Code which was 1 Terry Duddy 7 7 7 8 2 4 3 4 published by the Financial Reporting Council Andrew Formica 7 7 8 8 5 5 4 4 in July 2018 and applies to the Company from 2 Judy Gibbons 6 7 8 8 4 5 3 4 4 4 1 January 2019.
Terry Duddy was unable to attend two Remuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee A.
Leadership meeting due to last minute conflicting commitments.
Judy Gibbons was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting, one Audit Committee meeting and one A.
1 The role of the Board Remuneration Committee meeting due to a medical emergency.
The Audit Committee normally holds four meetings per year.
In 2018 five meetings were held due to the meeting The Board is collectively responsible to the originally planned for December 2017 being rescheduled to January 2018.
Companys shareholders for the Companys long-term success and the delivery of its Annual General Meeting AGM.
4 Non-Executive Directors strategic and operational objectives.
also expected to devote sufficient time to the The Non-Executive Directors challenge Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil The Board sets the strategic direction, and help develop proposals on strategy.
governance and values of the Group and has The annual Board Strategy Day is dedicated ultimate responsibility for its management, to considering the future direction of the A.
2 Division of responsibilities direction and performance.
Company at the start of the business The Chair of the Board and Chief Executive planningprocess.
The Board operates through a sound have separate roles and responsibilities which risk management and internal Further details of the 2018 Board are clearly defined, documented and controls system, details of which are Strategy Day are on page 73. on pages 56 to 62 and 110. approved by the Board.
The Chair of the Board, David Tyler, is responsible for the operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive, The Board has a formal schedule of matters A.
4.1 Senior Independent Director David Atkins, is responsible for leading and specifically reserved for its decision which Terry Duddy was the Senior Independent managing the business within the authorities can be accessed at www.
Director throughout 2018 and until he delegated by the Board.
stepped down from the Board on 25 January The Board has regular meetings throughout the 2019, when Gwyn Burr was appointed as the year.
3 The Chair of the Board new Senior Independent Director.
Board conference calls are held between the The Chair of the Board sets the Boards formal Board meetings as required.
During agenda and ensures that important matters, The Senior Independent Director is available 2018 eight additional meetings were scheduled to address shareholders concerns on in particular strategic issues, receive adequate to consider the intu acquisition, the approach time and attention at meetings.
When and if necessary, she can from Klpierre and the Companys strategy.
also address concerns on other issues that the Board encourages a collegiate Table 82 includes details of attendance at all environment on the Board which facilitates have not been resolved through the normal Board meetings and conference calls held in channels of communication with the Chair of open discussion.
2018, including additional meetings scheduled the Board, Chief Executive or Chief Financial at short notice.
On the few occasions when When he became Chair of the Board in 2013, Officer, or in cases when such Directors were unable to attend these David Tyler was considered independent.
In communications would be inappropriate.
additional meetings due to conflicting prior accordance with the Code, the continuing test She can also deputise for the Chair of the commitments, the Chair of the Board gathered of independence for the Chair is not necessary.
Board in his absence, act as a sounding board their views in advance of the meeting and for the Chair of the Board and advise and ensured that they were taken into account as The Chair of the Board ensures that he engages counsel all Board colleagues.
Non-Executive Directors regularly with institutional shareholders.
are encouraged to communicate directly with The Senior Independent Director chairs an Further details of shareholder Executive Directors and senior management annual meeting of Executive and Nonengagement are on between Board meetings.
Executive Directors without the Chair of the page 74.
Board to appraise the Chair of the Boards All Directors are expected to attend all performance and address any other matters meetings of the Board, the meetings of those which the Directors might wish to raise.
Committees on which they serve, and the 108 108 Hammerson PLC Annual Report Hammerson PLC Annual Report 2018 2018 Governance Compliance with the Code TheSenior Independent Director conveys the the external search consultancy to facilitate undertake external training at the Companys outcome of these discussions to the Chair of and advise on the appointment.
expense in areas considered appropriate for the Board.
Time is also scheduled at the end of their professional development.
These Further details of the work of the each Board meeting for the Chair of the Board include issues relevant to the Board and the Nomination Committee, including to meet with the Non-Executive Directors Committees to which they belong.
the appointment of Carol Welch without the Executive Directors present, as a as a Non-Executive Director, are result of the recommendations of the Board B.
5 Information and support on pages 76 to 78. effectiveness review in 2017.
Disclosures on diversity are on The Directors have access to independent pages 42 to 43 and 77 to 78. professional advice at the Companys If any Director has concerns about the running expense, as well as to the advice and services of the Company or a proposed action which B.
3 Commitment of the General Counsel and Company cannot be resolved, these will be recorded in the Secretary who advises the Board on corporate Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2018.
The Board is satisfied that all the Nongovernance matters.
The Board and its Executive Directors are able to devote Committees receive high-quality, up to date B.
Effectiveness sufficient time to the Companys business.
information for them to review in good time Non-Executive Directors are advised when B.
1 The composition of the Board before each meeting.
The General Counsel appointed of the time required to fulfil the role and Company Secretary ensures that Board and asked to confirm that they can make the During the year the Board reviewed the overall procedures are followed and that the required commitment.
Each individuals balance of skills, experience, independence Company and the Board operate within commitment to their role is reviewed annually and knowledge of the Board and Committee applicable legislation.
The General Counsel as part of their annual appraisal.
and Company Secretary is also responsible appointment for the Non-Executive Directors for facilitating Directors induction, assisting You can read more about the are available for inspection at the AGM.
outcomes of this review in the with identifying and enabling appropriate Nomination Committee report on Positions held by Non-Executive training and Board performance evaluation.
Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67.
The appointment and removal of the General During 2018, there were six Non-Executive Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter Directors including the Chair of the Board All Executive Directors are encouraged to requiring Board approval.
and four Executive Directors on the Board.
take a non-executive position in another company or organisation.
These The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive B.
6 Evaluation Directors, each of whom is independent from appointments are subject to the approval of In 2018 a formal performance evaluation of the Board which considers particularly the management and has no material or other the Board was conducted internally by means connection with the Company, are able to time commitment required.
of an online questionnaire, led by the Chair of exercise independent judgement.
the Board with the support of the General Non-Executive Director positions held by Executive Directors are Counsel and Company Secretary.
The The Board reviews the independence of its set out on page 66. evaluation of the Board is externally Non-Executive Directors each year in facilitated every three years.
An externally accordance with the criteria set out in the Code.
4 Development facilitated performance evaluation of the Board was carried out in 2016 by Independent B.
2 Appointments to the Board All Directors receive an induction programme Audit Limited, which has no connection with when appointed to the Board, which takes into The Nomination Committee, which is chaired the Group.
The 2019 performance evaluation account their qualifications and experience.
by the Chair of the Board and comprises all will be externally facilitated.
Where appropriate Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, leads the process are offered opportunities to meet institutional for Board appointments, which are made on The Chair of the Board carries out a formal shareholders.
All Directors are kept informed merit, against objective criteria, and makes performance evaluation individually with of changes in relevant legislation and recommendations to the Board.
each Non-Executive Director every year.
The regulations and of changing financial and Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior The Committees terms of reference can be commercial risks.
Where appropriate the Independent Director, are responsible for the found at www.
Companys legal advisors and External annual evaluation of the Chair of the Auditor assist in this regard.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for Directors are also subject to the Companys three-year terms and stand for re-election at annual performance development review Following the internal Board effectiveness each AGM.
Any term beyond six years is subject process in which their performance is review in 2018, the Directors concluded that to a rigorous review, taking into account the reviewed against pre-determined objectives the Board and its Committees operate need for progressive refreshment of the Board.
and their personal and professional effectively and that each Director continues development needs are considered.
to contribute effectively and demonstrates No new appointments were made to the commitment to the role.
However, during the year the During the annual appraisal of Non-Executive Nomination Committee led the process that More details of the Board Directors performance, the Chair of the effectiveness review are on resulted in the appointment of Carol Welch as Board reviews and agrees each Non-Executive page 75. a Non-Executive Director with effect from Directors training and personal development 1March 2019.
Russell Reynolds, which has no requirements.
Non-Executive Directors are other connection with the Group, was used as also encouraged to attend seminars and www.
com 109 109 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued It is not a committee of the Board but of B.
7 Election and re-election An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is on senior management from across the business All Directors are subject to election at the first pages 58 to 62 and Key and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
AGM following their appointment and annual Performance Indicators are on TheCommittee reports its activities to the pages 16 to 17. re-election at each AGM thereafter.
Peter Cole Group Executive Committee.
The Committees and Jean-Philippe Mouton both stepped down role is to: from the Board on 31 December 2018 and The Directors have assessed the prospects of Terry Duddy stepped down on 25 January 2019. the Company over a five-year period and have Promote the application of the Risk All other Directors are submitting themselves a reasonable expectation that the Company Management Framework throughout the for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
Carol Welch will be able to continue in operation and meet business has been appointed as a Director by the its liabilities as they fall due over the period of Encourage proactive discussion of risk Board with effect from 1March 2019 and this assessment.
around the business will therefore submit herself for election for The Viability statement and Going Manage the annual internal audit the first time at the 2019 AGM.
Concern statement are on programme page 63.
Directors biographies are on Consider the results and pages 66 to 67 and also in recommendations of reviews the Notice of Meeting for the The Groups risk management and internal Monitor the implementation of 2019 AGM.
control systems are designed to: recommendations Further discussion of the balance of skills, knowledge and Safeguard assets against unauthorised use Oversee the Groups Business experience on the Board is on or disposition Continuity plans pages 76 to 78.
Ensure the maintenance of proper Monitor data protection compliance accounting records C. Accountability The Audit Committee regularly reports to the Enable regular reporting of financial Board on key risks to the Group.
The Board performance to the Board to support C. 1 Financial and business reporting allocates responsibility for the management managements review process, including The Board considers that the Annual Report, of each key risk to the Executive Directors the production of external financial results taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and and senior executives across the Group.
Provide reliable information understandable and provides the information Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate The Audit Committee assists the Board in necessary for shareholders to assess the potential impediments to the Group fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the Companys position and performance, achieving its objectives adequacy and effectiveness of the control business model and strategy.
environment and the Groups compliance.
Ensure compliance with relevant A statement of the Directors legislation, rules and regulations responsibilities regarding the Throughout the year the Audit Committee financial statements is on monitored the effectiveness of the Groups It must be recognised that the Groups page 115. risk management and internal control internal controls provide reasonable but not An explanation of the Groups systems, including material financial, absolute assurance against material strategy and business model is on operational and compliance controls.
pages 12 to 15. particular the Audit Committee reviewed: Management has established a risk The Board has established processes to Internal audit reports including management framework and put in place ensure that all reports and information which monitoring the implementation of sufficient procedures necessary to enable the it is required to present in accordance with recommendations arising from them Directors to report the Companys regulatory requirements are a fair, balanced compliance with the Code on internal Reports on the system of internal controls and understandable assessment of the controls.
These involve analysis, evaluation and the Risk Management Framework Companys position and prospects.
and management of the key risks to the The Companys approach to compliance Further details about the fair, Group, including a review of all material with legislation and the prevention of balanced and understandable controls.
They also include plans for the fraud process for the Annual Report are continuity of the Companys business in the The General Data Protection Regulation on page 80. event of unforeseen interruption.
Having implementation programme monitored the Groups risk management and C. 2 Risk management and Gifts and entertainment and expenses internal controls, and having reviewed the registers internal control effectiveness of material controls, the Audit Committee has not identified any significant Further explanation of the The Board has established processes for failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal Companys approach to risk monitoring sound risk management and control structure during the year.
management is on pages 56 internal control which allow it to review the to 57. effectiveness of the systems in place within The Risk and Controls Committee supports the Group.
A robust assessment of the the Audit Committee.
principal risks facing the Company has been carried out during the year.
110 110 Hammerson PLC Annual Report Hammerson PLC Annual Report 2018 2018 Governance Compliance with the Code The Audit Committee assists the Board in During 2018 non-audit services provided by C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditor fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to: PwC to the Company included work to The Audit Committee comprises four support the Companys preparation of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
It Ensuring that management has systems intu acquisition documentation, work to normally holds four meetings per year, and procedures in place to ensure the provide an opinion on the Companys 31 organised around the Companys reporting integrity of financial information March 2018 profit estimate and other schedule.
In 2018 five Audit Committee assurance and advisory services.
Fees for Reviewing the Companys internal audit meetings were held due to the December 2017 non-audit services provided to the Company arrangements meeting being rescheduled to January 2018. by PwC for the year ended 31 December 2018 Maintaining an appropriate relationship were 1.0 million.
with PwC The Chair of the Audit Committee regularly reports details of the work carried out by the Reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity Further information on the Audit Committee to the Board in accordance remuneration of PwC is in note 5 and independence of PwC including the to the financial statements on with its terms of reference.
scope of work and the fees paid to PwC page 139.
The terms of reference for the The Committee is responsible for developing, Audit Committee are available at The Audit Committee oversees and monitors implementing and monitoring the Groups www.
the policies and procedures which form the policy on the engagement of the External core components of the Groups adequate Auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Pierre Bouchut, the Chair of the Audit procedures under the Bribery Act including principal requirements of the policy are that: Committee, has been determined by the the Code of Conduct, the Anti-Bribery and Board to have recent and relevant financial The External Auditor may not provide a Corruption Policy, the Whistleblowing experience as required by the Code.
The Audit service which places it in a position where Policyand other controls and training.
Committee as a whole has competence relevant it may be required to audit its own work, TheCode of Conduct explains how colleagues to the sector in which the Company operates.
such as bookkeeping or valuation services areexpected to fulfil their responsibilities byacting in the best interests of the Group Some services may be provided in specific Details of the composition of the andinline with its corporate and Audit Committee are on page 79. or exceptional circumstances and may The biographies of members of financialobjectives.
include due diligence and property-related the Audit Committee are on pages consultancy.
Each occasion is specifically 66 and 67.
A summary of the Code of assessed and authorised by an Executive Conduct is available at Director up to a limit of 50,000 and www.
The Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive, above that level by the Chair of the the Chief Financial Officer and other members AuditCommittee The Whistleblowing Policy sets out the of the senior finance management team procedures for colleagues to report any together with senior representatives Further details are in the terms of suspicions of fraud, financial irregularity or reference for the Audit Committee of the Companys External Auditor, other malpractice on an entirely confidential and the full policy on non-audit  LLP PwC, are services is available at basis.
Reports are provided to the General invited to attend all or part of meetings as www.
Counsel and Company Secretary, who appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as set ensures that matters are investigated out in its terms of reference, the Audit The Audit Committee has considered the appropriately.
The Audit Committee receives Committee receives presentations and reviews re-appointment of PwC and recommended it a report on any matters raised.
However, reports from the Groups senior management, to the Board.
The Board will therefore there were no reports received in 2018.
The consulting as necessary with PwC.
recommend the re-appointment of PwC to Company subscribes to the independent shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
There are no charity Protect so that colleagues may have The Audit Committee meets with no contractual obligations which restrict the free access to its helpline.
Company management present at least once a Audit Committees choice of external auditor year with PwC, and at least once with the head Details of how the Audit or which put in place a minimum period for of the internal audit function.
Committee has discharged its their tenure.
There are no current plans to responsibilities during the year re-tender the services of the External Auditor.
Cushman & Wakefield LLP the Valuer and are in the Audit Committee Report PwC have full access to one another and the on pages 79 to 81.
PwCs remuneration as External Auditor Chair of the Audit Committee meets with the for the year ended 31 December 2018 was Valuer and PwC to discuss the half-year and 0.7million.
Consideration is given to the year end valuation process to ensure each is nature of and remuneration received for satisfied that there has been a full and open other services provided by PwC to the exchange of information and views.
Confirmation is also sought that the fee payable for the annual audit is The Audit Committee has regard to the sufficient to enable PwC to perform its recommendations of the Financial Reporting obligations in accordance with the scope Council on regular and open communications ofthe audit.
between audit committees and external auditors and it has concluded that the relationship with PwC meets these recommendations.
com 111 111 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings D. 1 The level and components of E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders At general meetings, the online and paper remuneration The Company actively engages with proxy appointment forms give shareholders itsshareholders.
The principal responsibility of the options either to direct their proxy vote for or Remuneration Committee is to determine against each resolution or to withhold their Throughout 2018 the Company attended a and agree with the Board the overall vote.
The Company will ensure that the proxy wide variety of meetings, presentations and remuneration principles and the framework appointment form and any announcement of road shows.
The Chair of the Board and the for remuneration of the Executive Directors, the results of a vote will make it clear that a Executives meet regularly with institutional the General Counsel and Company Secretary vote withheld is not a vote in law: it will shareholders.
Views are communicated to the and the other members of the Group therefore not be counted when calculating the Board as a whole.
The terms of reference proportions of votes that were for and against are offered the opportunity to attend for the Committee are reviewed annually.
All valid proxy appointment meetings with the Senior Independent forms are properly recorded and counted.
Director, or may request such meetings.
The The Chair of the Remuneration Committee After the vote has been counted, information Board receives reports of meetings with reports regularly on the Committees is given on the number of proxy votes for and institutional shareholders together with activities at Board meetings.
against each resolution and the number of regular market reports and brokers reports shares representing withheld votes, both at The Directors Remuneration which enable the Directors to understand the report is on pages 82 to 107. the general meeting and on the Companys views of shareholders.
Notice of a general meeting is account of corporate governance guidelines of despatched to shareholders at least 14 days D. 2 Procedure institutional shareholders and their inadvance.
representative bodies such as the Investment When determining policy on executive Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Separate resolutions are proposed on each remuneration the Remuneration Committee Savings Association.
takes into account all factors which it deems necessary.
These include: Hammersons website contains information When a significant proportion of the votes at of interest to both institutional and private any general meeting is cast against a Relevant legal and regulatory shareholders.
resolution, the Company will explain, when requirements announcing the results of the vote, the actions Further details about engagement The provisions of the Code with shareholders and other it intends to take to gain an understanding of Associated guidance stakeholders are in the Corporate the reasons behind the result.
Views of principal shareholders Further details are in the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee which are available at www.
Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee are on page 82.
Details of advisors who provided services to the Remuneration Committee during the year are on page 102.
During 2018 no individual was present whenhis or her own remuneration was beingdetermined.
112 112 Hammerson PLC Annual Report Hammerson PLC Annual Report 2018 2018
