Corporate Governance report continued Board of Directors N R A N R David Tyler David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Gwyn Burr Chair of the Board Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Director and Managing Director, Premium Senior Independent Director Outlets Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 12 January 2013 and appointed as 1 January 2007 and appointed as 30 June 2011 21 May 2012 and appointed as Chair on 9 May 2013 Chief Executive on 1 October Senior Independent Director on 2009 25 January 2019 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience David Tyler is an experienced David Atkins is a Chartered Timon Drakesmith is a Chartered Gwyn Burrs contribution to the chairman having served in this Surveyor who joined the Accountant who brings extensive Board is enhanced by her broad role at a number of listed Company in 1998.
His career at experience gained from senior expertise in marketing, customer companies, including J Sainsbury Hammerson began with financial roles at a number of services, human resources, plc and Logica plc.
His 45 years responsibility for strategy and financial services and listed sustainability and strategy experience in executive and investment performance, working companies.
He also has obtained while working in senior non-executive roles spans the on a number of overseas comprehensive knowledge of roles at major retail brands, consumer, retail, business services transactions, particularly in property development and including Asda and Sainsburys.
In 2002 he took investment gained in part from She has a particular strength in David places high importance on responsibility for the UK retail his six years as finance director of customer insights, which is key as regular, constructive engagement parks portfolio and, in 2006, for Great Portland Estates plc.
Timon Hammerson develops its brand with shareholders and on building the wider UK retail portfolio.
brings a high level of probity and a and communicates directly with relationships with his David therefore has an in-depth sharp awareness of risks to the visitors to our destinations.
As Chair, knowledge of the Groups Board, and his comprehensive has served on the boards of a he fosters high-quality and robust operations and markets, which understanding of the financial diverse range of companies and debate by co-ordinating the helps him to lead the business and position of the Group is invaluable has experience on other diverse knowledge and be a key contributor to Board when engaging with shareholders.
remuneration committees both as perspectives on the Board.
He considers As Managing Director, Premium a member and chair.
Her ability to David is committed to effective stakeholder engagement crucial Outlets, Timon has oversight of consider the consequences of governance, and has served on and spends considerable time the Companys investments in remuneration decisions, drawing the Investment Associations talking to major shareholders, Value Retail and the VIA Outlets on her understanding of the Executive Remuneration visiting Hammersons joint venture and is therefore able employee and wider business Working Group and as co-chair destinations, hosting colleague to contribute his firsthand perspective, allows her to be an of the Parker Review Committee.
briefings and maintaining wide knowledge to Board discussions.
effective Chair of the David also brings extensive relationships in the property Through his roles on the board Remuneration Committee.
financial knowledge to the Board, industry.
Davids non-executive ofValue Retail and the advisory Gwyns extensive board as he is a Fellow of the Chartered appointment at Whitbread PLC committee of VIA Outlets, experience and understanding of Institute of Management enables him to bring a valuable hecanensure that the high different points of view and Accountants and a member of the alternative perspective to his role operational and governance business circumstances underpin Association of Corporate on the Board.
standards expected of this key her recent appointment as the Treasurers, and has held senior part of Hammersons business Senior Independent Director.
External appointments financial roles during his career.
David is a non-executive director External appointments External appointments of Whitbread PLC, a member of External appointments Gwyn is a non-executive director David is the chairman of Domestic the policy committee of the Timon is a non-executive director of Just Eat plc, Metro AG and & General Ltd and is standing British Property Federation, a of Value Retail PLC and The Taylor Wimpey plc.
She is also a down as chairman of J Sainsbury trustee of the Reading Real Merchants Trust PLC, and member of the boards of two plc in March 2019.
He is also the Estate Foundation and a chairman of VIA Outlets advisory unlisted companies, Sainsburys chairman of Hampstead Theatre.
governor of the Berkhamsted and investment committees.
Bank plc and Ingleby Farms and Schools Group.
66 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report Key to Committee membership A Audit Committee I Investment and Disposal Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chair A I N A I N A N R N R Pierre Bouchut Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Carol Welch Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 13 February 2015 26 November 2015 1 May 2011 1 March 2019 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Pierre Bouchut has very wide Andrew Formica is an actuary, Judy Gibbons has over 30 years Carol Welch has extensive experience in both executive and having qualified in Australia and experience in digital technologies experience in marketing, brand, non-executive roles at a number the UK.
He brings deep gained in executive roles at Apple, innovation and business of companies in continental experience in capital markets and Hewlett Packard, Microsoft and in transformation gained while Europe, particularly in the French fund management, including venture capital.
Her extensive working in senior roles at a and Belgian retail sectors, and has property management, and has experience spans strategy, number of international worked internationally managed portfolios and product development, marketing consumer goods businesses throughout his career.
He businesses across Europe and and international business.
She including PepsiCo, Cadbury therefore brings a highly globally.
In particular, he has has particular expertise in digital Schweppes and Associated knowledgeable perspective to the invaluable experience of customer experience, digital British Foods.
Carol also has Boards discussions of our managing complex businesses media, e-commerce and mobile more recent leisure and business in Europe.
Pierres through periods of significant applications, which enables her to hospitality experience, having experience of managing change.
Most recently he bring an invaluable perspective to led the transformation of Costa significant listed companies, successfully led Henderson Group Board discussions.
Her deep Coffee as its chief marketing including as chief executive of plc through its merger with Janus understanding of how technology officer with responsibility for Casino, allows him a deep insight Capital in 2017 and then became can transform a business is helpful brand communication, digital, into how strategic changes may co-chief executive of the as Hammerson faces the in-store design and the loyalty affect the retail and property combined group until 2018. challenges of an evolving retail programme.
He has a strong financial Andrew has a strong strategic market and shifting consumer ODEON Cinemas, a division of background, having been chief vision and a probing focus on risk expectations.
Judy complements AMC Theatres, and has initiated financial officer at Schneider and internal controls.
He also her listed company experience as a strategy to transform the UK Electric, Carrefour and Delhaize.
contributes helpful insights to a non-executive director with estate and guest experience.
He has extensive experience as an shareholder relations through the experience gained from a Carol will bring to Board audit committee chair, assisting differing perspectives gained in non-corporate perspective discussions a valuable occupier him to perform this role his various roles of fund manager, through her work with cultural perspective as well as a useful effectively at Hammerson where chief executive of a listed and not-for-profit organisations.
understanding of the changing he encourages careful scrutiny of company, and past deputy tastes of the UK consumer.
External appointments the Companys controls.
chairman of the Investment Judy is a non-executive director External appointments Association.
External appointments of New York-listed Capri Carol is the managing director Pierre is a non-executive director External appointments Holdings Limited, the global for the UK and Ireland of of Albioma SA and GVC Holdings Andrew will be appointed as chief fashion luxury group which owns ODEON Cinemas Group.
He is also a member of the executive officer and a director of Michael Kors, Jimmy Choo and non-executive director of Digital boards of two unlisted Jupiter Fund Management plc on Versace.
Cinema Media Limited and a companies, Firmenich SA and 1 March 2019, subject to Limited and a trustee of House of member of the board of the UK GeoPost SA.
Illustration, Nesta and Somerset Cinema Association.
