Corporate Governance report continued Group Executive Committee David Atkins Andrew Berger-North Simon Betty Sarah Booth Chief Executive Director, UK Retail Parks Director of Retail, Ireland General Counsel and Company Secretary F ID CR UI RC ID CR IT HS UI RC RC ID David Atkins is a chartered Andrew Berger-North is a Simon Betty is a chartered Sarah Booth is a qualified solicitor surveyor and joined Hammerson chartered surveyor and joined surveyor and joined Hammerson and joined Hammerson as in 1998, with responsibility Hammerson in 2003.
He was in 2006 with responsibility for a General Counsel in 2010.
She was initially for strategy and appointed Director, UK Retail number of retail regeneration appointed Company Secretary in investment performance, then Parks in 2005.
Andrew is projects, before joining the 2011.
Sarah provides legal advice retail parks and more recently the responsible for all aspects of the corporate finance team in 2011. on significant business matters wider UK portfolio prior to his retail parks portfolio, including Simon was appointed Director of and is responsible for the legal appointment as Chief Executive acquisitions, disposals, Retail, Ireland in 2015 and was services strategy.
David leads the development and asset instrumental in the acquisition of the provision of a full company management team and is management.
the Dublin portfolio, which he secretarial service to the responsible for the development now manages.
Hammerson plc Board and all and implementation of the Group subsidiaries.
Mark Bourgeois Stephen Brown Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Managing Director, Group Marketing and Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer and UK and Ireland Communications Director Managing Director, Premium Outlets UI RC ID CR IT HS RC IT F ID F RC ID IT HS Mark Bourgeois is a chartered Stephen Brown joined Peter Cole is a chartered surveyor Timon Drakesmith is a chartered surveyor and joined Hammerson Hammerson in 2010 as Marketing and joined Hammerson in 1989 as accountant and joined in 2017 as Managing Director, UK Director for the UK before being a senior development surveyor.
Hammerson in 2011 as Chief and Ireland.
Mark has overall appointed Group Marketing He has held overall responsibility Financial Officer.
In addition to responsibility for the performance Director in 2013.
He took on for developments, acquisitions, leading the finance team and of all the Companys assets in the management of the disposals and joint ventures since managing Hammersons UK and Ireland.
He will also lead communications team in 2017.
Peter stepped down from investments in premium outlets, on developments and project Stephen leads the UK marketing the Board of Directors on 31 Timon also chairs the Health and management from 2019. operations and is responsible for December 2018 and will formally Safety Committee and Group implementing the marketing and retire at the end of April 2019.
communications strategy across the Group.
Key to Committee membership UI CR UK and Ireland Management Board Positive Places CR Board F IT Hammerson France Management Board Group IT Committee RC HS Risk and Controls Committee Health and Safety Committee ID Group Investment and Development Committee Committee Chair 68 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance report Mark Duhig Jean-Philippe Mouton Richard Shaw Simon Travis Group HR Director Managing Director, France Director of Finance Group Investment Director RC HS F ID CR HS RC ID ID Mark Duhig joined Hammerson Jean-Philippe Mouton joined Richard Shaw is a chartered Simon Travis is a chartered in 2010 as Head of HR for the UK Hammerson in 2003 to manage accountant and joined surveyor and joined Hammerson and was appointed Group HR property leasing, development Hammerson in 2000.
He worked in asset Director in 2014.
Mark leads the and asset management in France.
in a variety of senior UK and management, investment and HR team and is responsible for He was appointed Managing Group finance roles prior to his business development prior to his the Groups people strategy to Director, France in 2010 and appointment as Director of appointment as Group ensure that development and served on the Board of Directors Finance in 2018.
Richard is Investment Director in 2018. succession plans are in place to from 2013 until he stepped down responsible for internal and Simon is responsible for sourcing support the implementation of on 31 December 2018.
In addition external financial reporting, risk new business opportunities and the Business Plan.
to managing the French portfolio, and controls and investor delivering the disposal Jean-Philippe leads on Group relations.
He will also lead on marketing.
investments and joint ventures from 2019.
In addition to the regular reports described above, the GEC also spent Managing the business time on the following activities: The Group Executive Committee GEC, which is chaired by David Oversaw strategic planning to prepare for the proposed acquisition Atkins, supports the Board by providing executive management of Hammerson plc within the strategy and Business Plan approved by the and integration of intu in the period before the Board withdrew its offer to acquire intu Board.
The GEC has responsibility for operational matters, including the implementation of the Groups Business Plan and strategy.
The Oversaw plans to ensure compliance with the General Data chief responsibilities of the GEC are set out on page 70.
During the year Protection Regulation which came into force in May 2018 a decision was made to increase the breadth of membership of the GEC Reviewed Hammersons Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking and several new appointments were made.
Statement for recommendation to the Board for approval and publication on the Groups website The GEC meets formally once a month.
The members also meet most Received and discussed feedback from the Great Place to Work weeks for informal discussion on day-to-day issues.
Employee Survey At its meetings during the year the GEC received a number of regular Received the annual Health and Safety Report including an update reports including on finance, trading and marketing, the property on the Companys review of its assets and audit of building cladding portfolio, human resources, corporate communications and the following the Grenfell Tower fire in June 2017 Groups Risk Management Framework.
It also received regular update Oversaw a project to review the Companys strategy, and reviewed reports from each of the Committees which reports to the GEC, which the proposed revised Business Plan 2019 and accompanying papers are set out in the governance structure overleaf.
The GEC also received for the Boards October Strategy Day regular updates on the Value Retail and VIA Outlets businesses, which Reviewed the proposed changes in the UK Corporate Governance are externally managed.
Code published in July 2018 and how they would impact the business The GEC monitored the progress of the strategic and operational objectives set by the Board, through the delivery of the Business Plan.
It reviewed the Groups Risk Management Framework and internal Meetings regularly take place between members of the GEC and controls in conjunction with the Risk and Controls Committee.
It also senior management as a whole.
For example, in May, the Chief ensured that development and succession plans were in place so that Executive and Chief Financial Officer hosted a leadership forum the business had people of the right calibre and skills to deliver the inLondon.
This was an opportunity for senior colleagues to meet, Business Plan for the current year and in the future.
discuss the current market environment and future direction of the business and share ideas.
Feedback from the event was reviewed at a subsequent GEC meeting.
The feedback also helped to inform the Boards consideration of Hammersons reshaped strategy.
More information about this can be found on page 73. www.
