Our business model Our model for long term value What we have What we do High-quality property in the right places We own and operate high-quality, flagship destinations and premium outlets.
Our City Quarters concept will enable us to leverage our existing land bank around these flagship assets, supporting their continued growth and success.
A dynamic and diverse team We go to great lengths to attract, develop and retain the best people.
By the end of 2018 Hammerson directly employed 533 people across the UK, France andIreland.
For more information see Our people page 41.
Our strategy Insight led We use property and consumer trends to Capital Optimised Operational shape our strategy and inform our efficiency portfolio excellence decisions around capital allocation, project priorities and resource deployment.
Our dedicated Insight team monitors the latest consumer habits and retail trends to better understand and respond to markets.
Effective capital management Effective capital management ensures balance sheet resilience.
We monitor against internal guidelines to maintain the Groups robust financial position.
Our preferred source of debt is Group-level, unsecured funding and we have a platform of successful JV partners.
For more information see Financial review page 48.
For more information see Our strategy pages 12 and 13.
14 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Our business model Our purpose We create vibrant, continually evolving spaces, in and around thriving cities, where people and brands want to be.
We seek to deliver value for all our stakeholders and to create a positive and sustainable impact for generations to come.
What we do Who we deliver for Shareholders We have a broad range of institutional investors and private shareholders.
We actively engage with them throughout the year and undertake regular communication to ensure they understand the performance of the business.
Brands Positive Product Our business strategy and future success is aligned with that of all of the places experience brands which fill our destinations retailers, F&B and leisure tenants, framework We create as well as direct to consumer brands.
destinations that We create desirable deliver net positive spaces where people impacts and brands want to be, economically, by developing iconic Consumers socially and destinations which at environmentally We create vibrant destinations that meet the needs of the wide range of their core have the very through the Groups consumers that engage with them.
In a modern omnichannel best brands and Positive Places environment, we need to provide more than just a place to shop.
customer at the heart of everything we do, Our target is to be delivering a journey net positive for that is truly frictionless carbon, resource Partners and supported.
use, water and waste We work with a wide range of partners over the long term including by 2030.
The four key pillars of joint venture partners, suppliers and capital partners, making our our framework are: business stronger and delivering a competitive edge.
Iconic destinations Retail specialism Experience led Communities Customer first Our assets rely on a strong, positive connection with thriving local communities.
This is where we draw our customers from, and over 80% of the employees in our flagship destinations.
For more For more information information see see page 24.
Our people Talented, motivated colleagues are vital to the success of the business.
We have built a winning team to support our delivery of flagship destinations.
For more information see Engagement with stakeholders page 74. www.
