Key Performance Indicators Monitoring our performance We monitor Key Performance Indicators, or KPIs, to measure our achievements against our strategic priorities.
The KPIs comprise financial and operational measures and each links to the three pillars of our strategy.
Financial KPIs Chart 1 Chart 2 Chart 3 Chart 4 1 Adjusted EPS growth Net debt Total property return Like-for-like NRI growth -1.6% 3,406m 0.0% -1.3% Adjusted earnings per share Net debt is the measure by Total property return TPR is the Net rental income NRI is the EPS is the Groups primary whichwe monitor the metric we use to measure the Groups primary revenue measure.
profit measure and reflects indebtedness of our business, income and capital growth of our Like-for-like NRI growth is key to underlying profit divided by the and comprises borrowings less property portfolio.
It is calculated growing earnings and dividends.
average number of shares in cash and deposits.
on a monthly time-weighted Growth is achieved through the issue and is calculated in line basis consistent with MSCI s implementation of our Product with EPRA guidelines as Performance methodology.
We judge our Experience Framework which explained on page 176. success in generating superior helps us enliven and enhance During 2018, the Group s net debt property returns by comparing our ourproperties.
has reduced by 95 million to Performance performance with a weighted 3,406 million.
The reduction is MSCI All Retailbenchmark.
Performance In 2018, adjusted EPS decreased principally due to net disposal by 0.5 pence, or 1.6%, to 30.6p.
proceeds received of 553 million Like-for-like NRI declined by Performance This was principally due to a and net cash inflow from 1.3% in 2018.
Income at our UK reduction in NRI associated with operations of 203 million, During 2018, the Groups and French flagships declined by disposals in 2017 and 2018 and partially offset by capital properties produced a total 1.3% and 0.9% respectively, the impact of tenant failure.
expenditure of 218 million and return of 0.0%.
The Groups whilst NRI at our UK retail parks These factors were partially share buybacks of 127 million.
investment and development fell by 4.3%.
Irish properties offset by higher earnings from our portfolios produced total returns produced growth of1.6%.
As detailed in the Chief premium outlets, lower net of -2.8% and 6.2% respectively.
Executive s review on page 6, Tenant failure reduced NRI by administration costs and a Premium outlets produced the weplan to dispose of in excess of 7.1 million in 2018.
Excluding reduction in interest costs due to highest return of 7.4%.
At the 500 million of properties from this impact, like-for-like NRI refinancing activity.
date of this report, our MSCI across our portfolio in 2019 to would have grown by 0.4%.
strengthen the Group s Proportionally consolidating the financialposition.
premium outlets growth of 5.2% would result in Group 13.6 like-for-like NRI growth of 0.3%.
Proportionally consolidated, excluding premium outlets.
See the Financial review on page 48 for further explanation.
In 2018, net debt has replaced the cost ratio as a KPI, reflecting the Group s increased focus on capital efficiency.
16 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators The performance against all of Link to the KPIs is taken into account remuneration when considering the personal The remuneration of Executive element of the AIP along with Directors is aligned closely other specific objectives.
with our financial KPIs through the Companys Annual Change in adjusted EPS and Incentive Plan AIP and Long total property return are also Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
two of the three LTIP performance measures.
For 2019, the AIP contains the Further information first three financial KPIs: on page 83. adjusted EPS growth, net debt and total property return.
Operational KPIs Chart 5 Chart 6 Chart 7 Chart 8 Occupancy Leasing activity Global emissions intensity Voluntary staff turnover ratio 122mtCO e m 97.2% 27.7m 13.4% 2 Keeping our properties occupied Our leasing strategy is designed to Reducing carbon emissions Our talented people are a key ensures we generate rental income improve brand mix towards is a key sustainability target.
resource and we strive to retain, and enlivens our destinations.
winning brands and categories, This ratio measures the amount engage and develop them.
We The occupancy ratio measures the and differentiate our destinations.
of CO e emissions from our continue to monitor voluntary 2 amount of space which is currently This KPI shows the amount of properties and facilities, staff turnover to highlight any let.
The ratio is calculated in line income secured across the including corporate offices.
potential signs of demotivation with EPRA guidance using the investment portfolio including Thedenominator is adjusted or other people-related issues estimated rental value ERV of new lettings and lease renewals.
profit before tax for the same and include both corporate and occupied space.
This ratio demonstrates centre-based employees in Performance our progress in decoupling thismeasure.
Performance business growth from increasing 2018 leasing levels were 17% Performance carbon emissions.
Occupancy remains above our or5.6 million below those 97.0% target, with 97.2% of the experienced in 2017, but In 2018, voluntary staff turnover Performance portfolio occupied at the end of nonetheless demonstrated a increased to 13.4%.
Occupancy fell during the strongperformance in a The ratio has reduced by 19% to compared with 2017 was largely year, impacted by tenant failures challenging market.
122mtCO e m during 2018. due to 11 more leavers from our 2 during 2018.
It was also impacted This significant year-on-year French office in 2018, whilst UK 3.9 million of the reduction following the completion of two improvement has been achieved and Ireland staff turnover fell wasdue to lower leasing at UK retail park developments which by investment in cross-portfolio by100 basis points.
are not yet fully let and overall efficiency projects and focused this increase, the turnover occupancy at UK retail parks energy management, and remains low compared to wider In total there were 423 lettings decreased from 99.4% to 96.9%.
supported by grid industry averages.
For principal leases, the rent was 6% higher than December 2017 ERVs and 5% higher than the previous passing rent.
