MARKET OUTLOOK ATTRACTIVE AND GROWING MARKET are acrnd e dice a - post the Retail Addressable market The UK currently faces significant Distribution Review cost effective advice The UK private wealth market is challenges in terms of engagement with has been increasingly difficult to find.
trillion, of which we saving and investing.
As a nation much see c1.1 trillion as addressable, giving In addition, successive UK governments work needs to be done to address these an implied market share for Hargreaves tinkering with pension savings, the challenges and develop a stronger culture ansdown of about.
Outside the introduction of various ISA products and and more confident attitude to saving Direct-to-Consumer D2C space, the persistent low interest rates have made and investing, which will bring long-term bulk of this addressable market is held finding the right solution for individuals benefits to society as a whole.
through independent financial advisers, investment needs ever more complex.
independent wealth managers and e ain a the gap between vertically integrated firms.
A significant Within the UK, investors have a wide range retirement expectations and the amount of this investment pool will have of financial awareness.
Some are confident cost of funding such expectations - is been initially advised upon, maybe many but face ever increasing complexities from 1 estimated at 1 b illion.
The level of years ago, but now receives no ongoing regulation, choice and technology.
Others funding necessary to provide retirement advice and little support.
This provides are less financially aware and need more income is increasing, driven by longer life a rich source of potential transfers to help in beginning their ourney into savings expectancies, less generous company and Hargreaves ansdown as clients look and investment.
Hargreaves ansdown is state pensions and ambitious retirement toconsolidate all their investments on well placed with its expertise and expanding expectations.
The burden of responsibility toour platform.
capabilities to help existing and new for retirement is shifting from government clients navigate through this minefield of and corporates to the individual.
This This 1.1 trillion is concentrated across complexity, providing appropriate products gap cannot be closed without individuals c million people with 100,000 or more and solutions for the young through to taking ownership for self-provision and of investments source ONS.
Within this those at and in retirement.
Hargreaves without the use of long-term investments population there are key segments for us ansdown firmly believes that government alongside cash savings.
such as Peak savers, Pre-retirement and has a role to play through improving Retiring which alone hold c00 billion.
e eld ain ai fe finan ll t cio a l education, addressing the savings an annual record low of.
1 in 201 as gap and by empowering companies like us Demographics and longevity alone per Office for National Statistics ONS through proportionate regulation to help will provide growth drivers in these key 2 une 2018. provide the solutions and education.
segments but, if the UK savings gap can be better addressed, then further impetus could be developed across these and other segments.
Although other segments are not so key in terms of the CLIENT SEGMENTATION GIVEN WEALTH STARTING SAVING AT RETIREMENT IN RETIREMENT LATER LIFE INDEPENDENT LIFE FOR THE FUTURE JUNIOR ISA LIFETIME ISA DRAWDOWN PENSIONS WORKPLACE SAVINGS ISAs GIA INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS ACTIVE SAVINGS ADVICE 10 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT opportunity, they still need engagement With of UK investors now claiming and investment solutions and Hargreaves todeal with their investments themselves, SIGNIFICANT 3 ansdown, through its breadth of offering, up from 2 in late 201, there should can address them too.
be continued impetus in the growth of OPPORTUNITIES theD2C execution-only market.
Transfers in from across the wealth IN A GROWING MARKET market spectrum show our wide Financial advice, however, still has an appealtoinvestors who currently important role to play as people are often holdassets elsewhere.
put off by the perceived complexities of investing, have insufficient time to Managing investments in one place with devote to it or ust want the comfort that a trusted company that makes things an expert is involved.
Such advice can be easy is an ambition for many investors ongoing or one-off in nature to address and this consolidation process is a ourney a certain issue or to ensure that their that many of them go through with us.
investment plans are on track.
Hargreaves Such consolidation of investments on to ansdown, with around 100 highly platforms has driven the UK D2C platform qualified advisers, is well placed to service market to 20 billion, of which Hargreaves such needs.
We believe that investors 2 ansdown has a.
re should have access to appropriate cost effective advice at the point they actually The D2C platform market grew by 20. need it.
in the past year and forms part of the wider D2C market worth 50 billion which 2 grew at 1.1.
Significant other shares Market development of the D2C market include 25 billion ISAs held by pension and insurance providers The markets for the Groups products and 92 BILLION and billion held by wealth managers services continue to evolve as individuals arreae andn in execution only assets, both of which savings and investment needs react Total value of assets under provide a source of transfer business to to the changing regulatory and market administration AUA.
With continued low interest rates, Stocks and Shares ISAs remain Industry expert, Platforum, also estimate attractive and we have seen significant 2 that 0 billio i n s held directly with asset 206 BILLION transfers in from cash ISAs held with managers who are increasingly realising lar are banks.
The current ISA allowance of that they are not set up to service direct The execution-only market has 20,000 provides additional scope for retail customers.
This provides a source 20 billion of assets.
Hargreaves tax efficient investing, particularly for of transfers or an opportunity to acquire ansdown has a.
higher earners who stand to lose some the entire direct back books from fund of their annual pension allowance and are management groups.
During the year we impacted by the lower lifetime allowances.
1.1 TRILLION acquired a back book from Old Mutual With the threat of further tinkering to Private wealth market Global Investors and in previous years the pension rules, the ISA increasingly Add in advised assets and the total acquisitions have been made from becomes a long-term investment plan private wealth market has 1. trillion upiter, PMorgan, egg Mason and for many and hence provides a significant of assets.
We believe we are a solution BlackRock.
We are actively pursuing opportunity for new business flows.
Hargreaves similar deals working with fund groups According to HMRC, as at 5 April 201, ansdown has a market share.
andthe FCA to ensure affected clients the Stocks and Shares ISA market is canbetransitioned effectively.
estimated at 15 billion with an additional 20 billion held in Cash ISAs and 2.4 TRILLION billion in unior ISAs.
Based on recent Private wealth cash market HMRC data the average annual amount The cash market is worth a further 1. trillion.
Hargreaves ansdown has a market share and has launched a cash management Source Mind the Gap Aviva and Deloitte, September.
service to begin to address this.
S ource Platforum UK DC Guide uly.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 11 MARKET OUTLOOK CONTINUED subscribed into ISAs over the past three have been made by 2020 which represent The shift from defined benefit to tax years has been c billion.
These genuine new incremental inflows to the defined contribution pension schemes statistics clearly demonstrate a significant UK savings industry.
has exacerbated the Savings Gap.
Autoopportunity to gather more assets into enrolment and the Pension Freedoms, Auto-enrolment has delivered our core ISA products.
launched in April 2015, have helped to demonstrable successes, however, reinvigorate interest in retirement savings.
In April 201, the ifetime ISA ISA there are flaws in the architecture of However, these reforms, as well as the waslaunched.
This is open to UK citiens the system that need to be addressed.
lower lifetime and annual allowances, between the ages of 18 and 0 and any First, self-employment is more common have created significant complexity savings added to the ISA before their than it was when auto-enrolment was for investors to navigate.
Hargreaves 50th birthday will receive an added 25 first introduced.
There are now nearly ansdown recognises this as a key bonus from the government.
The savings five million self-employed workers in opportunity and therefore a focus for allowance is capped at, 000 per annum the UK and the vast maority are not usis how we can best help investors into and can be used towards a deposit on participating in the pension system.
We can provide a first home worth up to 50,000 or strongly believe the government needs bespoke ongoing personal advice, but towards saving for retirement, whereby, to address this problem.
Secondly, for many this is too expensive and not after their 0th birthday individuals can every time someone changes their ob, appropriate, so we are looking at more withdraw all the savings free of tax.
they will be enrolled into a new pension, cost effective solutions which will give which over time will lead to millions more guidance or advice at the point clients Hargreaves ansdown was one of only pension accounts than are necessary.
three platforms that offered the ISA at This recurring auto-enrolment process its launch and by 0 une 2018 we have is highly disruptive for an individuals Undoubtedly there will be further changes over 2,000 accounts with 218 million retirement saving ourney.
Irrespective of to pensions in the coming years but we of invested assets, which makes us the how interested and engaged they are with are confident that government support largest provider of ISAs.
Approximately their pension, whenever they change obs, for increased private pension provision half of these clients were new to they are forced to suspend their existing is robust and this is likely to mean Hargreaves ansdown highlighting how pension and start a new one if they want continued tax advantages and policy itserves as a way for attracting a younger to benefit from their employers pension decisions designed to promote increased demographic to our platform.
To avoid this we believe retirement saving.
With individuals taking who were already existing clients it helps that an individual who has an existing more responsibility for pension saving, strengthen the client relationship and auto-enrolment pension from a previous we believe Self Invested Personal Pension enables us to potentially capture more employment or who wishes to make an SIPP providers such as Hargreaves of their investment wealth over time.
active choice regarding their pension ansdown, which help investors to Although it is early days for this new type provider, should have a right to choose self-manage their retirement savings, of ISA, it could provide fresh impetus for that arrangement in preference tobeing arelikely to continue to prosper.
adults to boost their long-term savings forced to oin their new employers and for others to start saving for the first scheme.
They should have the right to a ain time using risk-based investments rather have their new employers contributions Alongside risk-based investments, than cash.
paid into the pension of their choice, investors continue to hold cash despite along with any of their own contributions persistent low interest rates on cash Pensions deducted from their salary.
Our research shows that there Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is a further 1. trillion of cash held in the The workplace will continue to play a continues and through the cooperation UK.
During the year we introduced Active pivotal role in retirement saving and of over one million employers more than Savings, our digital deposit service that Hargreaves ansdown Workplace.
5 million employees have been brought provides a solution for managing cash Solutions, which already provides into pension saving with regular employee savings.
The development roll-out of this pension, investment and annuity and employer contributions being made.
service is controlled as we look to build servicesfor over 500 employers, Escalating minimum contributions have out the functionality and add banking includinga third of the FTSE 100, been set so that by April 201 the partners to widen its appeal.
In the current canreallyhelp make a difference by minimum contribution will be of which low interest rate environment this service improving employee engagement with the employer will have to pay a minimum may not have mass appeal, but over time saving and through the provision of of.
The Department for Work and as we perhaps return to a more normal arange of high quality services.
Pensions estimates that nearly 20 billion interest rate environment and enhance of additional pension contributions will the functionality, it has the potential to ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT HARGREAVES LANSDOWN IN NUMBERS We are a well established and trusted brand providing a high quality service across a range of products and services.
ISAs LIFETIME ISA JUNIOR ISA CORPORATE SCHEMES SIPP 0,000 accoun ts First to launch UKs No.
1 provider 25 schemes 5,000 accoun ts billion AUA on April 201, 000 accounts, 000 memb ers 0 billion AUA 2,000 clients.
1 billion AUA HL FUND MANAGER FUND & SHARE PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT STOCKBROKING 10 Multi-Manager 0,000 accoun ts Ready-made investing SERVICE UKs No.
1 funds, 2 Equity funds, 2 billion AUA managed by experts Our discretionary 1. market share.
billion AUA 1 billion AUA managed solution.
5 billion AUA greatly increase our addressable market elain The FCA published their interm findings and hence remains a key part of our Regulation is an ever present theme on 1 uly 2018 where they proposed growth strategy.
in financial services and absorbs a measures to improve competition in considerable amount of time and the investment platform market.
Hargreaves ansdown is well study found that investors value the Competition placed to address the challenge this brings tools, research, Best Buy lists and other Much is made of the increasingly and believes the increasing regulation features that platforms like ours provide competitive landscape and indeed, effectively forms a barrier to entry.
and that client satisfaction was high.
It also new competitors continue to enter the Our primary regulator is the FCA and it recognised the key role that a platform market with innovative technology and oversees all aspects of our work, from how like ours plays in helping people to save new solutions.
We are never complacent we manage our platform, give advice and and invest with confidence, which is our and continue to watch the competitive run our fund management operations to purpose.
One particular area of focus landscape closely.
Where competition how we communicate with our clients.
they highlighted was making it easier raises further awareness of saving and for investors and advisors to switch improves financial awareness we see this During the year we have engaged with platforms.
Hargreaves ansdown has as a good thing.
Healthy competition the FCA on their Investment Platform been at the forefront of making transfers ultimately delivers better outcomes Market Study, which looks at how of investments and pensions between forinvestors.
competition is working in the market providers quicker and easier and as an and whether platforms offer value for Scale, however, remains key to becoming example, we chair the industrys working money to investors.
We welcomed the successful and achieving this relies on a group on transfers mentioned in the fact that this is a broad study including any deep understanding of savers, investors FCAsreport.
service that offers access to investment and their needs, which is something products through an online portal.
In In accordance with the FCAs timetable, we continue to focus on.
Once scale our submissions we worked hard to Hargreaves ansdown will provide is achieved, sustainable profits rely on demonstrate how we deliver value to our feedback on their initial findings and continued investment in technology, clients in what is a competitive market.
proposed remedies and look forward to people and a focus on how our clients the the FCAs final conclusions and report needs develop.
Standing still is not an scheduled for early 201. option and Hargreaves ansdown is always looking to improve the experience for our clients, ensuring value for money isdelivered.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 13
