CHAIRS INTRODUCTION The Board has continued to apply good governance practices and supports the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Good corporate governance provides Code sets out the standards of good practice in relation to how a company a sound framework through which should be directed and governed.
The Code is published by the FRC and further we can successfully deliver our strategy information can be found on its website at frc.
and return value to our stakeholders.
Having reviewed the provisions of the Code, the Board is satisfied that the Company has fully complied with them throughout the year ended 0 une Dear Shareholder throughout the financial year and will 2018.
More information is contained In my first year as Chair I am pleased to continue to ensure that these standards within the Corporate Governance and present our corporate governance report are maintained and enhanced over the Remuneration Committee reports.
for this financial year in what has been a coming year.
busy time for the Group particularly in The Board has also continued to foster In addition to my appointment to the relation to the development of the Board good relations with its new and existing Board, we have also welcomed two and its senior management team.
We look forward to new Non-Executive Directors, Fiona appointed Chair on February 2018 welcoming shareholders to our Annual Clutterbuck and Roger Perkin who oined following the decision by Mike Evans General Meeting on 10 October 2018. the Board on 1 September 201 bringing to step down from the Board.
First and with them a wealth of financial services foremost I would like to give my sincere Deanna Oppenheimer experience.
Biographical details of the thanks to Mike on behalf of the Board for Chair Board and the current governance and his contribution to the development and leadership structure are set out in the August 2018 growth of the business over the last nine following pages.
years and to wish him well for the future.
Christopher Barling also stepped down The Board has spent considerable time from the Board on February 2018 having in the last year formulating its future served nine years as a Board member and strategy, operating plans, enhancing I would like to thank him and wish him well its Risk Management Framework, its for the future too.
Shirley Garrood took his Corporate Governance arrangements, place as Senior Independent Director.
its people and its culture.
In addition it has been dealing with challenges The Board is responsible to shareholders facing the business such as changes for strategic direction, oversight of in regulation, technology and the management, and control of the Groups competitive landscape.
I firmly believe, along with the Board, that high standards of governance The Board has undertaken an externally and effective Board oversight supported facilitated Board evaluation and by a strong culture are vital to the effectiveness review.
The review covered successful delivery of our strategy and a number of topics.
The Board will be are key to underpinning our continued reviewing and implementing any actions ability to deliver sustainable growth for required from the evaluation in due course our shareholders, clients and our people.
We are committed to adhering to the principles of the 201 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board considers that appropriate governance standards were in place 50 arrea e andnReport and Financial Statements 2018
