GOVERNANCE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Deanna ri ill Philip Johnson Oppenheimer Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chair and NonOfficer Executive Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board February 2018 April 201 Chief Financial Officer CFO April 201 from February 201 to September 201 and Deputy Chief Executive Officer CEO ill and eerience ill and eerience from October 201 to April 201 Deanna currently has roles as the Senior Philip is an experienced financial services Independent Director and Chair of CFO.
He has a wealth of experience Remuneration Committee of Tesco plc ill and eerience in capital management, risk and and Non-Executive Director and Chair Chris has considerable strategic, controls and has a good track record in of the Remuneration Committee of leadership and operational skills and strategic operational execution.
experience from a number of business was previously CFO of upiter Fund sectors.
He has extensive finance and Management plc for seven years and prior Deanna has extensive board level accounting experience having oined the to that Group Finance Director of MG governance and leadership experience in Group initially as CFO and then moving in imited for over five years.
Philip qualified both public and private financial services quick succession to the position of CEO as a chartered accountant with Coopers business having worked in the industry for where he is also responsible for driving ybrand.
5 years at Executive and Non-Executive forward the cultural and risk management level.
Her rich executive experience aspects of the business.
Prior to oining Committee membership includes, amongst other things, the Hargreaves ansdown he was CFO at IG Investment Committee transformation of the retail banking Group Holdings plc and prior to that CFO division at Barclays.
Deanna is founder at Travelex.
Chris qualified as a chartered Other current appointments of CameoWorks, a consumer focused accountant at Arthur Andersen and is an None.
boutique advisory firm which works with associate member of the Association of fintech businesses and other technology Corporate Treasurers.
He is a member of disrupters.
Deanna is a member of the the 0 Club.
Committee membership Committee membership None Nomination Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Other current appointments None.
Other current appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Tesco plc Non-Executive Director and Chair of theRemuneration Committee of Whitbread plc.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 51 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS irley arrd Fiona Clutterbuck er erin Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board October 201 September 201 September 201 ill and eerience ill and eerience ill and eerience Shirley has extensive and relevant Fiona is a qualified barrister with extensive Roger is a qualified accountant with Executive and Non-Executive financial corporate finance experience.
During extensive financial services experience.
A chartered her career, Fiona has held the positions He is a former partner of Ernst Young, accountant, she served as Chief Financial of Head of Strategy and Corporate and has previously been a Non-Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer at Development at Phoenix Group, Managing Director at Evolution Group plc, Friends Henderson Group plc and as an Executive Director and Head of Financial Institutions ife td and Nationwide Building Society.
Director at Morley Fund Management Advisory at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, Roger has served on a number of different Aviva.
She also has broad experience Managing Director and Global Co-Head Board Committees, including chairing the as a Non-Executive Director, chairing of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Audit Committee at Evolution Group plc committees of a listed company and a Investment Bank and was a Director at Hill and Nationwide Building Society, G15 housing association.
She was also a Nonwhere he also served as the Senior Executive Director at W. S. Atkins until its Independent Director.
Committee membership Risk Committee Chair Committee membership Nomination Committee Committee membership Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Nomination Committee Other current appointments Risk Committee Deputy Chairman and Senior Other current appointments  Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman ofesure Group plc.
of the Audit Committee at TP ICAP plc, Other current appointments Electra Private Equity plc and AIB Group Chairman of Paragon Banking Group.
Trustee of three charities, Chiddingstone Castle, The Conservation Volunteers and the Charities Aid Foundation.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Jayne Styles Stephen Robertson Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board October 2015 October 2011 ill and eerience ill and eerience ayne brings a wealth of relevant Stephen has broad marketing and digital financial services knowledge, including skills and experience derived from a career current executive strategic, governance in the retail sector, serving 15 years on and operational experience as Chief the boards of maor UK retailers and then Investment Officer at MS Amlin, as Director General of the British Retail where she is responsible for running Consortium.
Stephen has a keen interest their billion plus global multi-asset, in the client experience and has wellmulti-manager portfolios.
ayne has honed people skills.
an Executive MBA from Cranfield School of Management and holds a Committee membership number of professional qualifications, Audit Committee including Associate of the CFA Society Investment Committee of the UKand Fellow of the Chartered Nomination Committee BankingInstitute.
Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Committee membership Investment Committee Chair Other current appointments Audit Committee Non-Executive Director of Nomination Committee Timpson Group plc Risk Committee Non-Executive Director of Clipper ogistics plc Other current appointments Non-Executive Director of Chief Investment Officer MS Amlin plc Footasylumplc.
Chief Executive Officer MS Amlin Investment Management Committee, Member of the Corporation of loyds Investment Committee.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 53
