DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report on Results and dividends i anaeen the affairs of the Group and the audited The results of the Group are set out in Details of the Groups policy on risk consolidated financial statements of the detail on page 111.
The Company paid management has been made in note 5.
Group for the year ended 0 une 2018. an interim ordinary dividend during the of the notes to the consolidated financial Accompanying this Directors Report period, as detailed in note.
2 to the statements related to various financial are the Strategic report, Corporate financial statements.
The Board have instruments and exposure of the Group to Governance report, Audit Committee proposed a final ordinary dividend of financial, market, liquidity and credit risk.
report and Directors Remuneration 22.1 pence per share, to be paid in respect report.
These reports form part of the of the year ended 0 une 2018, subect Report and Financial Statements.
In addition the Find out more Board have declared a special dividend of A review of the business.
The proposal would and its future development is Cautionary statement see these dividends paid on 1 October set out in the Strategic Report.
The review of the business and its 2018 to all shareholders on the register at Adescription of the principal risks strategic priorities in this Report and 28 September 2018.
Details of dividend and uncertainties is given on pages Financial Statements has been prepared waivers are also detailed in note.
2 to 2 to 1 of the Strategic report.
solely to provide additional information the consolidated financial statements.
to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be Events after balance sheet date rrae ernance relied on by any other party for any other Details of those important events The Corporate Governance report is purpose.
The review contains forwardaffecting the Group which have occurred found on pages 5 to 0 and, together looking statements which are made by since the end of the financial year are with this report of which it forms part, the Directors in good faith based on set out in note 5.5 to the consolidated fulfils the requirements of the corporate information available to them up to the financial statements.
governance statement for the purpose time of the approval of these reports of the Financial Conduct Authoritys and should be treated with caution due Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Employee disclosures to inherent uncertainties including both Our disclosures relating to the economic and business risk factors employment of disabled persons, the Share capital associated with such statements.
number of women in senior management The Companys shares are listed on roles, employee engagement and the Main Market of the ondon Stock policies are included in Corporate Social Exchange.
The Companys authorised and Responsibility on pages 0 to 8. issued share capital during the year and as at 0 une 2018 is shown in note.
1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Corporate social responsibility The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all Information about the Groups approach respects.
Save as agreed at the Annual to the environment and sustainability, General Meeting of the shareholders, the including details of our greenhouse gas ordinary shares have pre-emption rights emissions, are set out on pages to 8. in respect of any future issues of ordinary shares to the extent conferred by Section 51 of the Companies Act 200. ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE eneficial ner are i Directors indemnities There is a relationship agreement inrain ri As permitted by the Companys in place between Peter Hargreaves Beneficial owners of shares who have Articles of Association, the Directors and the Company to ensure that the been nominated by the registered have the benefit of an indemnity which independence provisions as set out in the holder of those shares to receive is a qualifying third-party indemnity isting Rules are complied with.
The Board information rights under section 1 of provision as defined by Section 2 of the confirms that for the year ended 0 une the Companies Act 200 are required Companies Act 200.
The indemnity was 2018, and in accordance with the isting to direct all communications to the introduced in August 201 and is currently Rule.
8.1 registered holder of their shares rather in force.
The Company also purchased and i The Company has complied with the than to the Companys registrar, Equiniti maintained throughout the financial year independence provisions included in Registrars, or to the Group directly.
directors and officers liability insurance the relationship agreement and cover for up to 0 million in respect of itself and its Directors to guard against Directors interests iiS o far as the Company is aware, the liability which may be incurred actingas Information about the interests, in the independence provisions included in Directors and Officers.
This cover remains shares of the Company, of those who the relationship agreement have been in force at the date of this report.
held the office of Director in the year to complied with by the other parties to 0 une 2018 is included in the Directors the relationship agreement and Remuneration report on page.
As at 0 une 2018 and August 20 18 During the year, Fiona Clutterbuck and the Company had been advised in Roger Perkin oined the Board as Nonaccordance with the DTR of the Executive Directors on 1 September following shareholdings amounting to 201 and Christopher Barling stepped more than of the issued share down as a Non-Executive Director on capital of the Company February 2018. er and Mike Evans also stood down as NonInterested party ordinary shares Executive Chair on February 2018 with Peter Hargreaves, , .
Deanna Oppenheimer taking his place Stephen, , .
having received regulatory approval on ansdown 1February 2018.
During the period covered by this report, Baillie Gifford, , .
no Director had any material interest indsell Train, , .
in a contract to which the Company or imited any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party other than their own service APG Asset, , .
contract, requiring disclosure under the Management N V requirements of the Companies Act 200.
Find out more Further details regarding those persons who have been Directors in the year can be found in the governance section of this report on page 5.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 99 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED ale cr reerence reired r e iin le e iin le isting Rule.
8. of the Financial Conduct Authoritys isting Rules require us to make certain disclosures.
The table below highlig hts each disclosure and where each can be found within the Report and Financial Statements iin le eired iclre cain in e er and inancial aeen Current Year Dividend Waiver Agreements Note.
to the consolidated financial statements provides information on employee benefit trusts that have waived dividends Future Dividend Waiver Agreements Note.
to the consolidated financial statements provides information on employee benefit trusts that have waived dividends Information Regarding Controlling Shareholder A statement regarding the controlling shareholder is on page of the Directors report are e elain Allotment of shares This resolution.
Approval of short notice for general The Company has its own internal dealing renews the Directors authority to allot meetings.
The Company was granted rules which apply to all staff and which shares.
The maximum nominal value of authority at the AGM in 201 to call a encompass the requirements of the relevant securities that may be allotted general meeting on no less than 1 clear Market Abuse Regulations.
pursuant to the authority is 2,2.80, days notice.
This authority expires at this representing 158,10,200 ordinary shares.
years AGM and a special resolution will be This amount represents approximately proposed for its renewal.
of the Companys total share At the AGM on 11 October 2018, the 5.
Adoption of a new executive share capital in issue as at August 2018. following five items of special business option scheme A resolution is being willbe tabled Waiver of pre-emption rights This proposed as special business at the AGM resolution renews the statutory preto enable the Directors to adopt a new 1.
Authority to purchase own shares The emption procedures, so long as i the executive share option scheme.
Company was granted authority at the issue is a rights issue, open offer or other AGM in 201 to purchase its own shares Further details of the proposals pre-emptive offer, or pursuant to a scrip up to an aggregate value of 10 of the are included within the Directors dividend alternative or ii the aggregate issued nominal capital.
This authority remuneration report, and full details will nominal amount of such issue does not expires at this years AGM and a special be provided in the shareholders Notice exceed, 8.2 which rep resents resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
5 of the issued share capital as at This resolution gives the Directors August 2018.
PwC have expressed their willingness authority to make market purchases to accept appointment as auditor and The Directors do not have any present of up to, 1,82 ordinary shares, a resolution to appoint them will be intention of exercising either of the representing approximately 10 of the proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
authorities and the authorities will expire Companys issued ordinary share capital at the conclusion of the next AGM.
The Directors do not Viability statement have any present intention to exercise These resolutions seek authorities In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of such authority and the authority will expire which are in accordance with the current the UK Corporate Governance Code, at the conclusion of the next AGM after guidelines issued by the Investment the Directors have assessed the viability the passing of the proposed resolution.
Committees of the Association of British of the Group over a longer period than the Insurers and the National Association of 2. and.
Directors authority to allot 12 months required by the Going Concern Pension Funds.
shares and waiver of pre-emption rights provision.
Details of the assessment can Resolutions are to be proposed as special be found in the risk management and the business at the AGM on 11 October principal risks and uncertainties section of 2018 to enable the Directors to allot the Strategic report.
unissued shares and, subect to the limits therein contained, to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
100 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE in cncern In conunction with its assessment of longer-term viability above, the Board concluded that it remained appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements as it believes the Group will continue to be in business, with neither the intention nor the necessity of liquidation, ceasing trading or seeking protection from creditors pursuant to laws or regulations for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Group financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report and Financial Statements confirms that So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director, in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 18 of the Companies Act 200.
Approved by and signed by order of the Board Paula Watts Company Secretary August 2018 Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 101
