STRATEGY AND KPIS MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE SM Net Promoter Score Based on May 2018 and May 201 client surveys of 1,1 and 1, ur vision is to be a household name respondents respectively, using the known as the best place for savers and Net Promoter Score methodology.
The survey covered Hargreaves ansdown investors in the UK.
This measures the willingness of existing clients to recommend the services We focus on providing an unrivalled We use the following Key Performance of Hargreaves ansdown to others.
It and evolving client experience, using Indicators KPIs to measure the provides a measure of our clients overall it to deliver deeper relationships so we progress and success of our satisfaction and loyalty to the brand.
become one of the few companies that  A high score will have a positive effect clients connect with regularly in their on gathering more clients, particularly lien eerience daily lives.
Delivering high levels of client friends and family, and therefore AUA.
retention, client satisfaction and an Client retention rate rincipal riss increased use of our services drives net Based on the monthly lost number of Strategic, operational, legal and new business flows from existing and clients, as a percentage of the opening regulatory conduct.
This provides the engine for months Vantage clients and averaging financial growth, enabling reinvestment for the year.
roress in te ear into the client experience whilst Improved security on how clients Why generating returns for shareholders.
A high client retention rate is a sign Increased staff numbers in helpdesk that clients are happy with the service and operational roles.
we provide and that it fulfils their investment needs.
The longer a client Further enhancements to the H is with Hargreaves ansdown, the more app delivering a NPS of 1 among assets they are likely to accumulate.
eerience retention provides more certainty of Although the overall NPS has future earnings.
decreased during the year, it is still a rincipal riss very high score within the financial Strategic, operational, legal and services sector.
in assets Result r and clients roress in te ear 50.3% 201 0.5 Negotiated further discounts with fund management groups.
Discounts on the Wealth 150 are on average 1bps.
When reviewing performance Active Savings introduced in the Directors use a number of anuary 2018. alternative performance measures which Simply Invest launched April 2018. are explained on page 15 followed by a Improved visibility for clients of income glossary of terms used in this report.
Net Promoter, NPS, and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marks, and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are service marks, of Bain Company, Inc. Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT r in ae and clien inancial r erae accn er clien Net new business rfi ere a Average numbers of active accounts Represents subscriptions, cash Why held per client and averaging for the year.
receipts, cash and stock transfers in, less Gathering and retaining assets and withdrawals and assets transferred out.
This is managed Provides an indicator of how widely our Why on a scalable platform to deliver clients are using Hargreaves ansdown Net new business is an indicator of improved operating profits.
the trust and security clients place in rincipal riss Hargreaves ansdown along with the rincipal riss Strategic, operational, legal and perceived value of the client offering.
The Strategic, legal and regulatory.
greater the assets gathered, the greater the revenue.
roress in te ear roress in te ear Increased numbers of clients opening PBT grew 10 on the back of strong rincipal riss Income Drawdown and ISA accounts.
growth in assets and clients.
Strategic, legal and regulatory, conduct, We continue to win Corporate operational, financial.
Reslt schemes and hence new individual roress in te ear clients to whom we can actively 292.4M 2017: 265.8m Record net new business of.
billion, increased market share and Additional online functionality iled earnin er are AUA grew 1 to 1. billion.
delivered such as SIPP top ups, Why W8BEN forms and additional Reslt This is a measure of profit per share companies added to the online 7.6BN 2017: 6.9bn and is a metric used to determine value transfer system.
Reslt Net new clients rincipal riss 1.3 2017: 1.3 Represents the change in number of Strategic, operational, legal and active clients between the opening and regulatory, financial.
closing position for the year unique Website visits roress in te ear number of clients holding at least one The growth in diluted EPS was PMS or Vantage account with a value Why driven by the scalability of the over 100 at the year-end.
Provides a view of the engagement and business model and continued reach that Hargreaves ansdown has Why strategic execution.
The greater the number of new clients, Reslt the better the potential for growing AUA.
rincipal riss Strategic, operational, legal and 49.6P 2017: 44.6p rincipal riss regulatory.
Strategic, operational, legal and regulatory, conduct.
roress in te ear Rebranding of our website and roress in te ear visual identity with an appeal to a aun ch of the ifetime ISA phase 2. wider audience.
New expertise added in digital marketing to understand and serve Enhanced functionality of the our clients better.
New Corporate schemes and More personalised communications, members added.
Reslt Reslt 137,000 2017: 118,000 169M 2017: 138m Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018
