Deanna Oppenheimer Chair ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRS STATEMENT DELIVERING VALUE ooking forward the fundamentals of our strategy remain the same.
Exceptional client experience should be at the heart of everything we do.
We will continue to use Hargreaves Lansdown is an technology to enhance and personalise the client experience, however they innovativemarket leader with choose to interact with us.
We need to take this best practice, embrace areal focuson client engagement technological innovation and embed thisalongside the personal approach andtechnology.
ofour high quality investment helpdesks.
This will ensure we deliver an exceptional quality user experience, offering great value that makes lives simpler and easier to manage.
Without happy and engaged clients there is no sustainable business.
erie and raey Empowering our clients to save and It gives me great pleasure to introduce invest with confidence is why we are in ard cane myself and our 2018 Report and Financial business.
As a Board we have been further The Boards composition and diversity is Statements for my first time as the Chair.
embedding a healthy corporate culture regularly reviewed and we are committed that drives behaviour focused on our to ensuring we have the right balance of My background to date has been centred corevalues of skills and experience within the Board.
on building client focused propositions and integrating technology to deliver Putting clients first As announced previously, from tangible benefits to stakeholders, both Going the extra mile 1September 201 Fiona Clutterbuck with UK and US based companies.
Doing the right thing and Roger Perkin were appointed as Icurrently sit on the boards of Tesco plc Making it easy and independent Non-Executive Directors.
and Whitbread plc, as well as advising Doing it better.
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive CEOs of fintech businesses and other Director, Christopher Barling stood down By staying true to these values, we stay technology disruptors.
I am excited from the Board on February 2018 and true to our purpose and Hargreaves aboutplaying my part in the next phase was succeeded by Shirley Garrood, an ansdown will benefit clients, employees, ofHargreaves ansdowns growth in the existing Non-Executive Director.
shareholders, communities and society UK savings and investment landscape.
I was appointed as Chair on February It is the people, their values and client- 2018 and succeeded Mike Evans who ast year our newexecutive leadership first culture that first attracted me to hadserved on the Board since September team outlined our strategy and vision Hargreaves ansdown.
Having been 200 and as Chairman from December to be a household name known as the Chair for six months, I have seen at first 200.
Under Mikes guidance, the Group best place for savers and investors in hand ust how much the client is truly at has become a successful FTSE 100 the UK.
Key in delivering this strategy the heart of the business and its decision business combining strong client focus has been investment in our people, making process.
It is no surprise therefore, with high service standards.
All three that once again, we have had another to Mike for his insight and contribution in a ultimately drive the client experience, successful year with significant growth smooth transition process both for myself the gathering of assets and the growth in client numbers and AUA leading to and my new fellow directors.
Our Chief Executive, Chris Hill, continued growth in profit before tax will review whathas been a very busy year to22.
and outline the progress we have made onthestrategic priorities.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 7 CHAIRS STATEMENT CONTINUED Along with our Chief Executive, Chris Hill, An interim ordinary dividend of 10.1p per Outlook I am a proud member of the 30% Club share was paid on 9 March 2018.
Including Looking ahead, macro uncertainties which works to increase the number of this, the total ordinary dividend for the remain as great as ever and there is a women on FTSE 100 boards and it is very year is 32.2p per share 2017: 29.0p, lotof focus on what the UKs exit from pleasing to see that we now have a Board an increase of 11%.
Adding the special theEU will mean for the UK financial with an equal number of male and female dividend gives a total dividend of 40.0p services industry.
Despite such members: the only company in the FTSE per share 2017: 29.0p, an increase for uncertainty Hargreaves Lansdown has 100 which currently has achieved this 2018 of 38%.
a strong track record of organic growth balance.
We will continue to diversify the through its consistent focus on clients Subject to shareholder approval skills, experience, age and ethnicity on the and use of technology to broaden its of thefinal dividend at the Annual Board to ensure we are well prepared to proposition.
The Board believes that GeneralMeeting, to be held on Thursday guide the Group through our next phase delivering value for clients will enable 11October 2018, the final and special of growth.
further growth to the benefit of our dividends will be paid on 1 October 2018 shareholders and wider stakeholders.
to all shareholders on the register at the Remuneration close of business on 28 September 2018.
Last year we proposed a revised remuneration policy where pay is more Our people Deanna Oppenheimer closely aligned with the performance of Since taking the role as Chair in February Chair the Executive Directors and the value they 2018, I have been impressed by the deliver to our clients and shareholders.
6 August 2018 quality and enthusiasm of the Executive The Remuneration Committee engaged Directors and of the teams of people that with shareholders to listen and take support them.
The Board is clear that our account of their views and it was people remain our greatest asset and pleasing to see that the policy passed our strong culture and values should be with a vote of 98.69% in favour.
Committee is satisfied that the structure of the remuneration package remains Our culture and environment must appropriate with due consideration given attract, value and retain people from to environmental, social and governance all backgrounds, life experiences, issues and does not incentivise preferences and beliefs ensuring they are inappropriate risk taking.
recognised and respected as individuals and valued for the different perspectives Dividend they bring.
As our business grows, our The Group took the decision not to pay needs and challenges become more a special dividend for the year ended diverse and therefore so too must our 30 June 2017 and instead retained workforce.
More information on Diversity approximately 50 million of capital and Inclusion can be found on page 44. to ensure it held a sufficient surplus On behalf of the Board I thank all our going forwards.
At the time the Board people for their dedication during a very maintained its commitment to paying busy year and for their ongoing efforts.
special dividends in the future.
I am pleased therefore to announce that theBoard recommends the payment ofaspecial dividend alongside this years final dividend.
In line with our stated dividend policy, the Board recommends, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, payment of a final dividend of 22.1p per share.
In addition the Board today declares aspecial dividend of.
arrea e andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 MY READY-MADE PORTFOLIO WAS SO EASY TO SET UP Mrs K Bawden I chose to invest in an ISA as I was given The process of getting started was so some inheritance and we were doing a easy.
I just rang up and spoke to someone house extension.
I was determined that first to get a bit more information and I didnt want to spend all the money on then I did it all online.
Between talking on the extension and decided to save some the phone and opening the account, it money for the future.
I thought that if I put was less than an hour.
That was it and then the money in an ISA, the money would off I went Whenever Ive had questions, have the potential to grow.
Ive spoken to someone at H and theyve been really helpful and knowledgeable.
I chose a ready-made portfolio because I ust felt that I didnt know enough about For more information, please see investing to do it effectively.
co. uk investmentmade so I just put the money in and services isa Hs experts will make all the underlying investment decisions for me.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 9
