GOVERNANCE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Role of the Investment Committee Investment Committee membership I am pleased to present the Investment The Committee is tasked with providing and attendance Committees report for 2018.
The challenge and oversight to the investment The Committee meets at least four Committee was established in August business, including the investment times a year there were four scheduled 201 to provide oversight of the decision making process, Alternative meetings during the year and no additional investment part of the Group, including Investment Fund Management ad hoc meetings were required.
The its governance and product offerings.
Directive AIFMD compliance, policies Company Secretary acts as Secretary to The Committee continues to provide and outcomes relating to Hargreaves the Committee.
Other individuals attend challenge to the executive team in relation ansdown Multi-Manager funds, H at the request of the Committee Chair to all aspects of the investment business Select funds, Portfolio Management and during the year the Chief Investment and over the period the Committee has Services PMS, H Portfolio, Wealth Officer, Head of Client Proposition and received information from the business 150, Master Portfolios and Foundation Service, the Risk and Compliance Director regarding the Groups investment Portfolios and the marketing of third and the Head of Research attended product range and performance, as partyfunds.
well as its controls framework and risks.
In providing independent challenge, the The members of the Committee at The Terms of Reference for the Committee assists the Board with its 0 une 2018 and their attendance at the Committee are available on the Groups Multi-Manager fund AIFMD oversight four meetings held during the 12 month website at www.
co. uk or can be requirements relating to asset allocation, period were obtained from the Company Secretary.
investment strategy and performance, together with oversight of the investment I will be available at the Annual General risk management process.
Meeting to answer any questions about our work through the year.
Members Position liile eein ended eein ayne Styles Chair Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director Philip ohnson CFO Jayne Styles Chair of the Investment Committee Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED On an ongoing basis, membership of the erie aciiie drin Committee is reviewed by the Chair of the e financial year Committee and any recommendations The chart below outlines how the for new appointments are made to the Committee has spent its time this year Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
Since 4 last year end, the composition of the Committee was changed and Philip ohnson was appointed to the Committee with effect from 10 August 201 to 3 provide additional oversight expertise 1 given his previous experience, and the previous non-plc director members became attendees only.
ain aciiie drin e year In discharging its responsibilities the 2 Committee focused on Risk and compliance, including monitoring of conflicts of interest, 1.
Investment team update challenge to investment related 2.
Governance 2 policies and processes, such as the risk 3.
Product offerings 10 management process, as well as review of regular risk updates from the Groups risk function.
iquidity monitoring andstress testing, conflicts of interest Investment Committee Evaluation reporting and fund benchmarking The Investment Committee carried out havebeen challenged, and the an evaluation of its performance during Committee has also provided challenge the year.
In addition the Board has carried in respect of the life styling process for out a comprehensive externally facilitated corporate clients Board Evaluation review this year which has included a review of the Investment Consideration of investment team Committee.
The Board is reviewing updates, which cover information the results of the evaluation and will be about the performance of the H implementing any actions required in Multi-Manager funds, H Select duecourse over the coming year.
funds, PMS, H Portfolio, Wealth 150, Master Portfolios and Foundation Portfolios.
The updates also include Signed on behalf of market information and oversight of the Investment Committee.
the communication process to clients in respect of Hargreaves ansdowns investment products.
The Committee also reviewed analysis of the flows of Jayne Styles business into and out of the Groups Chair of the Investment Committee investment offerings and August 2018 The Committee also provided challenge regarding the launch of the Simply Invest product offering.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018
