BUSINESS MODEL USING SCALE AND MARKET POSITION TO DRIVE VALUE We offer a lifelong, secure home for Inputs peoples savings and investments that offers great value, an excellent service and makes their financial life easy.
These People ecnly arein key attributes enable us to grow clients and assets on our platform which drives revenues to support reinvestment for further growth.
Executing this virtuous circle enables long-term value creation r cycle across our stakeholders and helps deliverbroader economic benefits acrosssociety.
Service clients Reinvestment Transfers New clients Allowances Economics i aliy earnin Value creation Clients Employees Investors Society ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Clients INPUTS ECONOMICS Using our scale and influence to People Our people lie at the heart Revenue securediscounts and improvements ofHargreaves ansdown, ensuring we We generate revenues based on the forinvestors deliver on our core values.
They develop value of assets managed on our platform, Continuous investment ensuring the knowledge and expertise, implement activity levels of our clients and a net proposition evolves and grows over ourstrategy and deliver our products interest margin on uninvested cash.
time, meeting the lifecycle needs andservices.
of these revenues are recurring in nature, of clients providing a high degree of profit resilience.
ecnl O yur platform uses our Helping clients to secure a prosperous By providing an excellent service, we own proprietary systems, allowing us future will attract new clients and new assets, todevelop our products and services ensuring we are well positioned to grow ina nimble, secure and efficient manner.
Employees revenues across the market cycle.
Weembrace technological innovation A corporate culture where they know toharness it to improve client experience.
they are truly helping clients and the Costs We invest to ensure our systems are wider society From our revenues, we fund the safe and secure, giving peace of mind Challenging and rewarding careers in administration of the platform, our toclients.
a growing company proposition and the business as a whole.
arein We provide a multi-channel Key to our strategy is the reinvestment Ongoing learning and personal marketing approach to engage with new back into people, technology and development across all levels of and existing clients, ensuring they have marketing, ensuring that we are always the business high quality information to empower improving and evolving the service and Competitive rewards and flexible them to save and invest with confidence.
benefits package Weseek to understand our clients better, Despite the significant reinvestment, our to tailor our communications to their scalability enables us to generate industry Investors needs and enhance a lifelong relationship.
A cash generative business model in a growth market rfi A track record of strong operating GROWTH CYCLE Our high quality earnings and scalability margins and profit growth, underpinning r in clien deliver strong profits which quickly increasing shareholder returns We have a market leading, client convert into cash.
After ensuring focused, scalable platform and Profits convert quickly into cash, we maintain a significant surplus of througha combination of investment facilitating dividends and reinvestment capital over and above our regulatory and application of our core values, we for growth requirement, we are still able to pay continually improve the client experience, significant dividends to our shareholders.
Society attracting new clients across the lifecycle We want people to save and invest with and retaining our existing client base.
confidence and have a future that they VALUE CREATION can control r in Through placing clients at the heart of all Growing the number of clients and we do we have already achieved significant We campaign on behalf of investors, nurturing our relationships with them scale, but our continuing investment and lobbying via public consultation and over their lifetime drives the long-term adherence to our core values will enable with policymakers sustainable growth in assets on our further growth.
This will deliver long-term We pay our taxes in full and on time and platform.
The more happy and engaged value creation not only for clients but conduct our tax affairs in a clear, fair and clients we have, the greater is the flywheel across a range of stakeholders.
transparent way effect for increased new business flows We support our community through through transfers of investments held fundraising, volunteering and mentoring elsewhere on to our platform, new lump and raise money for charity through the sum contributions and regular savings, H Foundation particularly with regards to the tax allowances within a SIPP and an ISA.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 15
