Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 57 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Statutory information contained elsewhere Directors indemnities and insurance in this Annual Report The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity Information required to be part of the Directors Report can provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain in force at the date of this report.
In certain circumstances, the be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated, and is incorporated into this Report by reference: Company can indemnify Directors, in accordance with its Articles of Association, against costs incurred in the defence results and dividend in the Chairs Statement, page 12 of legal proceedings brought against them by virtue of their and the Chief Financial Officers Statement, page 26: office.
Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover remains corporate governance, the Groups financial risk in place to protect all Directors and senior managers.
management, internal control objectives and policies in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 61 Articles of Association and Managing Our Risks on page 33: Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association may only be made by the passing of a special resolution of the details of the salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests shareholders of the Company.
of Directors in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 95: Substantial shareholdings Directors Responsibility Statements on page 60: As at 27 February 2019 the Company was aware of substantial how the Board takes into account the views of all interests in the Companys shares or had been notified of stakeholders and promotes the long term success interests in voting rights under Chapter 5 of the DTR, of the Company on page 41: as follows: % of issued Colleagues on page 42: share Shareholder Shareholding capital Holding Whistleblowing on page 52: and Main Street 1353 196,508,074 29.8 Direct Environmental and Greenhouse Gas reporting in Proprietary Limited Environmental, Social and Governance on page 56.
Goldman Sachs Interests 76,372,246 11.6 Direct Aberdeen Standard 41,261,831 6.3 Direct Management Report Investments The Strategic Report and this Directors Report, with its Fidelity Management 36,180,862 5.5 Direct inclusions as indicated above, form the Management Report Research as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR Mr Neil Utley 30,000,000 4.6 Direct 4.1.
Directors and Directors interests The names of the Directors of the Company and changes to directorships during the reporting period are shown on pages 64, 65 and 84.
Biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on page 66 to 67.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 102.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 58 | Directors report continued Share capital structure, issue and buying back In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 c the Company confirms that it complied with the independence provisions and shareholder rights included in RA2: that as far as the Company is aware The number of Ordinary Shares of 2 pence each issued and independence provisions included in RA2 were complied fully paid at 31 December 2018 was 657,701,128.
All Ordinary with during the period under review by RMI: and that the Shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote procurement obligations included in RA2 were complied at general meetings of the Company, as set out in the with during the period under review by RMI.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor by the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
7.1 of the Code, all legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements Directors will be subject to annual election by shareholders.
between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Resolutions to provide authorities to Directors to allot shares, to disapply certain pre-emption rights and to make market No person has any special rights of control over the purchases of the Companys own shares, all subject to Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
appropriate limits, will be put to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Shareholder resolutions put to the AGM held in May During the year, shareholders Goldman Sachs & Co. and the 2018 providing authority for the purchase by the Company of Founder Shareholders collectively Significant Shareholders its own shares remained valid as at 31 December 2018.
The had significant direct investment in the Company.
Pursuant to Company confirms that during the financial year ended 31 a Relationship Agreement RA1 entered into by the Company, December 2018, no shares in the Company were purchased Goldman Sachs & Co. GS Shareholders and the Founder by the Company or acquired by it by forfeiture or surrender in Shareholders are each able to appoint one Director while they lieu of forfeiture: or were acquired by a Company nominee, or or persons connected to them continue to hold a direct by another with the Companys financial assistance, the or indirect interest in at least 5% but less than 20% of the Company having a beneficial interest in accordance with Companys shares.
As at the end of the year, the appointee section 671 of part 18 of the Companies Act 2016: or were for the GS Shareholders was Sumit Rajpal: the Founder made subject to a lien or other charge taken by the Company.
Shareholders had not appointed a Director.
The Company has not held any Ordinary Shares in treasury in the period under review.
Rand Merchant Investment Holdings Limited via its subsidiary Main Street 1353 Proprietary Limited RMI maintain a Under the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP Trustees shareholding of 29.9% in the Company.
A relationship of a trust SIP Trust was established for the purpose to hold agreement RA2 was entered into between the Company shares on behalf of SIP participants for a three year service and RMI so that, for so long as RMI holds a direct or indirect period.
The SIP Trustees will vote on, and receive dividends, interest of between 15% and 29.9% in the issued Ordinary in accordance with a participants wishes.
A separate trust The Share capital of the Company, RMI is able to nominate a Hastings Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds shares Director for appointment to the Board of the Company.
As for the benefit of colleagues under the Long Term Incentive at 31 December 2018 Mr Herman Bosman, Chief Executive Plan LTIP.
The EBT Trustees have expressed their intention Officer of RMI was the appointee for RMI.
RA2 contains the to abstain from voting but receive dividends in line with same independence provisions as RA1, however the Company shareholder rights attaching to its shares.
The Group satisfies confirms that, as at 31 December 2018, RMI was not a matching share awards in the SIP and the LTIP as described in controlling shareholder as defined by Listing Rule 9.2.
Note 29 to the Financial Statements through the acquisition by the SIP Trust and the EBT respectively of the Companys In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 c the Company Ordinary Shares in the market.
During the three year service confirms that it complied with the independence provisions period for the SIP matching shares are held by the SIP Trust.
included in RA1: that as far as the Company is aware The assets of the SIP Trust and the EBT are both consolidated independence provisions included in RA1 were complied within the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements.
with during the period under review by the Significant Shareholders: and that the procurement obligations included in RA1 were complied with during the period under review by the Significant Shareholders.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 59 Change of control significant contracts Directors statement of responsibility for disclosure of information to auditor There are several commercial agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each none is considered to be significant in terms of its potential Director serving at the date of approval of the Financial impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The Company Statements confirms that: does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no would provide compensation for loss of office or employment information relevant to the preparation of these reports resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and he she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably awards granted to colleagues under such schemes and plans be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit to vest on a takeover.
information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Branches The Company and its subsidiaries do not have any branches in Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be any other country.
interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Political contributions There were no political contributions during the year Contractual arrangements 2017: nil.
The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts as well as contracts with PCWs, critical software Directors statements platform providers, data centre service providers, and claims As required under the Companies Act 2006, the Code and the repair service providers to be essential to the running of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, various statements have Groups business.
No other contractual arrangements are been made by the Board as set out on page 60 and are considered to be essential.
incorporated into this Report by reference.
Financial instruments Auditor The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to KPMG LLP were initially appointed as the Companys External financial instruments held by the Group are set out in Note 25 Auditor in December 2015 for the financial year ended 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
December 2015 and their re-appointment was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2018 for the current financial year.
Going concern KPMG have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2019.
In resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern resolution proposing the appointment of a statutory Auditor basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In considering the will be proposed at the AGM.
appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, The Audit Committee report on page 76 provides details on including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
the length of tenure and re-appointment of the Auditor and when a tender for the service was last conducted.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved by the Board on 27 February 2019 and are signed on its behalf by: Anthony S Leppard Company Secretary 27 February 2019 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
