10 | How we are different A long term approach to sustainable value creation Our business model and key differentiators are at the heart of our ability to deliver on our strategy to be the best and biggest digital insurance provider.
We invest in and are strategically leveraging our key areas focused key differentiators Embracing In key UK markets: digital UK car market Colleagues Talent, skills, expertise and experience: training and development: reward and progression 32 million cars Unique product portfolio UK home market Customers Anti-fraud, pricing, products, and digital propositions 21 m illion homes Leading edge technology On underwriting capacity: Separation of retail and underwriting c. 90% Company Digital, technology, brand of policies written by the Groups and distribution Underwriting business Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL Refined and optimised pricing capability Market leading anti-fraud c. 10% and disciplined risk selection Community of policies through a panel of third party underwriters Local initiatives and charities Low-cost operating model Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Built for growth | 11 We are therefore committed to an ongoing programme of investment, combined with a disciplined and agile approach, in the key areas that we continue to drive sustainable value for our stakeholders.... to create long term value We have embraced digital in order to fully optimise our business to take Colleagues advantage of the growing Price Comparison Website PCW market.
PCW market share growth proportion of new customers across the market that buy through PCW: 3,300 colleagues in Bexhill, Private car: 2010 52%, 2014 66%, 2018 73% Leicester, Gibraltar, London and homeworking Home: 2010 22%, 2014 43%, 2018 56% 6% since 2017 We have a carefully thought through portfolio of insurance products, Customers each with specific features and benefits and each delivering great value to clearly identified market segments and individual needs.
2.71million Live customer policies Our business is underpinned by sophisticated technology that enables us to capture and process data efficiently, and to analyse and process applications and claims in a way that gives us more control.
Company Our business structure is designed to separate Retail and Underwriting activities and decision making, with Retail focused on driving customer lifetime value, and Underwriting focused on sophisticated risk selection.
7.5% UK car market share Sophisticated data capture and enhanced modelling techniques have allowed us to constantly refine and optimise our pricing capability, led by teams of highly specialised decision scientists across both Retail and Underwriting.
Community Our disciplined approach to risk selection enhanced by data enrichment tools and processes, coupled with our advanced anti-fraud capabilities, helps to generate greater value for our stakeholders.
54,000 charitable donations in the year We have a variable and low operating cost base with further efficiencies to be delivered through Guidewire and digital processes.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
