92 | Corporate governance Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair Dear Shareholders Directors Remuneration Policy In this context, the Committee carried out an extensive review On behalf of the Board, of the existing remuneration policy, reflecting on changes in the business and the Companys maturity as a listed entity I am pleased to present since the policy was introduced, as well as market practice.
We observed that, relative to the market, the balance of the our Directors Remuneration incentives was heavily in favour of long term performance, with bonus opportunity lower and LTIP opportunities Report Report for the year comparatively higher.
This balance was determined at the time of IPO to reflect the strong focus on long term growth ended 31 December 2018. for the Company as a newly listed company.
For 2019, the Committee concluded that a more balanced approach would better reflect the Companys position as a more mature FTSE 250 company, which also is more closely aligned to the This is my first report as Chair of the Remuneration market.
We also consulted with our largest shareholders and Committee and I would like to thank my predecessor, the proxy voting agencies in late 2018 and took account of Malcolm Le May, for his contribution and support.
their views and comments: we were pleased with the general level of support shown for our new proposals.
Our first directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting AGM in 2016, The proposals are: the first AGM following our IPO.
In accordance with the Annual bonus opportunity increased from 100% to 150% remuneration reporting regulations, a new Remuneration of salary, with deferral levels increased from 25% to 33% of Policy Policy is included after the Report and this will be the award.
subject to a binding shareholder vote at our AGM in May 2019.
Long term incentive reduction in normal maximum Last year we were pleased to receive a shareholder vote opportunity from 225% to 200% of salary, and introduction of 97.25% in favour of our 2017 Report at our AGM: and of a two year holding period following vesting for all awards we would like to thank our shareholders for their support.
Our Report for the 2018 financial year is included after this statement and this will be subject to an advisory vote at this This rebalancing of incentives results in an increase in the total years AGM.
variable opportunity of 25% of salary.
We are comfortable that this is reasonable and appropriate in the context of the Remuneration in context increasing size and complexity of the business: however, During 2018, the Company delivered progressive results in a we determined that it would be appropriate to introduce this in conjunction with longer time horizons on incentives.
difficult market of reducing insurance premiums and increasing claims inflation.
Despite these challenging conditions, operating Therefore, the portion of the annual bonus subject to deferral has increased and a two year holding period has been profit grew by 4% to 190.6m.
The Company has also strengthened its capital position, deleveraging to 1.2x as at introduced for the LTIP.
Under these new arrangements, the Executive Directors remuneration packages as a whole are December 2018, whilst also delivering incremental dividends.
A disciplined approach has led to solid growth in live customer still modestly positioned relative to other FTSE 250 financial services companies.
Furthermore, our Guidewire technology was implemented and the benefits are already apparent.
This is all For 2019, the performance measures for the bonus and LTIP in the context of a change in Chief Executive Officer during the year, with Toby van der Meer taking over the role in March.
The Committee has reviewed the weightings for the annual bonus and for 2019 the bonus will These achievements, together with our strategic investment with a continued focus on further increasing our customer be based 70% on financial performance and 30% on nonfinancial performance.
The 2019 LTIP will be based 50% on base, aim to ensure that the Group is built for continued future growth.
relative total shareholder return and 50% on cumulative EPS.
Full details of the application of the Policy in 2019 are provided on page 105.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 93 Developments in UK corporate governance Remuneration decisions in the year The new UK Corporate Governance Code Code was Executive Director salary levels published in 2018 and the Committee reviewed this carefully Toby van der Meer was appointed as Chief Executive Officer as part of the wider remuneration policy review to identify on 1 March 2018 and his salary of 500,000 was set on areas for development in our executive remuneration appointment.
The Committee reviewed his salary in the year practices.
Key decisions already implemented are: and concluded that an increase of 2% to 510,000 was Introduction of a two year holding period on the LTIP, appropriate.
This is in line with the average percentage effective for 2019 grants onwards.
increase for the rest of the workforce.
Development of our policy for Executive Directors to hold In January 2019, it was announced that Richard Hoskins will shares in the Company following cessation of employment.
retire this year from the role of Chief Financial Officer and The shareholding requirement for current Executive will be succeeded by John Worth.
John brings a wealth Directors is 200% of salary.
From the 2019 AGM, Executive of experience to the Group and the Committee took into Directors leaving the Company will be expected to hold half consideration his skills, experience, and criticality in driving of this shareholding requirement i. e. 100% of salary or, future Group performance when determining a suitable if their current shareholding is below this, their current remuneration package.
Johns salary has been set at 475,000 shareholding, for two years following departure.
and he will be entitled to a bonus opportunity of 150% of salary and an LTIP opportunity of 200% of salary for 2019, Enhanced discretion and clawback provisions in the incentive plan rules and new Policy, in line with the in line with our new Policy.
His benefits and pension will also be in line with the existing policy.
For future Executive Director appointments, pension The Company carried out an extensive search for a new provision will be no more than the percentage company Chief Financial Officer in late 2018 and concluded that contribution level for the majority of the workforce.
a candidate of John Worths experience was crucial to supporting the Group in the next stage of its development.
Further information on our response to the Code is provided Johns salary is comparable to his previous role and is aligned on page 96.
The Committee will continue to develop with Chief Financial Officer salaries at UK insurance peers its approach in 2019 and will report on any further with whom the Group competes for talent, and reflects his enhancements in the 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee does not expect to increase Johns salary for a period of two years.
The Committee also noted the legislative changes that came into effect from 1 January 2019 requiring disclosure of the ratio of the Chief Executive Officers pay to the average of the workforce.
The Committee reviewed the ratio for 2018 when considering its approach to executive remuneration for 2019, and has opted to disclose the ratio in this years Report for maximum transparency.
The policy and approach to executive remuneration continues to reflect corporate governance requirements and best practice, shareholder interests, and the context of the wider workforce.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 94 | Corporate governance Annual statement continued 2018 annual bonus payments Long term incentive awards vesting in the year As in prior years, the annual bonus awards are determined by No awards under the Companys LTIP were due to vest to the reference to predetermined targets, including adjusted Executive Directors in respect of 2018. operating profit, as well as overall corporate and individual performance within our 4Cs framework including objectives Chief Financial Officer departure arrangements aligned to colleagues, customers, company and community.
Richard Hoskinss date of departure has not yet been This ensures a balanced overall assessment of performance, confirmed and details of the treatment of his remuneration in line with best practice.
Further information on the 4Cs is on departure will be disclosed in next years Report.
provided in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 41.
Conclusion This bonus framework applies to all colleagues on a consistent We hope you find that this Report clearly explains our basis.
When considering remuneration outcomes, the remuneration approach and that it enables you to appreciate Committee carefully considers the distribution of bonuses how it links to our strategy.
across the entire business to ensure it is fair and equitable.
We value the views of our shareholders and we actively Whilst reported financial performance was above the welcome any feedback on our Policy and its implementation.
threshold set at the start of the year, the Committee noted We hope to receive your support for the Policy and Report that the 190.6m adjusted operating profit included 14.6m at our AGM in May 2019. of VAT refunded in the year.
As a result, the Committee felt that it was not appropriate to assess the financial outcome Thomas Colraine based on the reported adjusted operating profit as it did not Chair of the Remuneration Committee give a true reflection of the underlying financial performance.
27 February 2019 The Committee therefore used its discretion not to use the published adjusted operating profit figure in the bonus calculation, and excluded the value of the VAT refund.
As a result, no bonus was earned in respect of the financial element of the performance target.
In recognition of strong performance on non-financial achievements within the context of the 4Cs framework in the year, the Committee determined that a bonus of 83,333 be paid to the Chief Executive Officer, representing 20% of pro-rata salary, and 70,000 be paid to the Chief Financial Officer, also representing 20% of salary.
25% of these bonuses will be deferred into shares for three years, in line with our existing remuneration policy.
Details of how the bonus outcomes were calculated are set out on page 98.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 95 Annual report on remuneration This section sets out how the Policy of the Company has been applied during the year and details how the Committee intends to apply the Policy going forward.
An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report Overview of Executive Directors policy and will be proposed at the AGM in May 2019. approach for 2019 An overview of the key remuneration elements in place for Compliance statement Executive Directors and details of the implementation of the This is the Companys Directors Remuneration Report new Policy for 2019 are set out below.
Report which has been produced pursuant to, and in The implementation of the Policy is dependent on receiving accordance with, the Listing Rules, section 420 of the shareholder approval for the new Policy, which will be put to Companies Act 2006, and Schedule 8 to the Large and vote at the AGM on 23 May 2019.
Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended 2013.
The Company also The Directors remuneration in 2018 was awarded in line with complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate the previous remuneration policy which was approved by Governance Code the Code.
This Report contains both shareholders at the AGM in 2016.
The remuneration policy auditable and non-auditable information.
Key remuneration elements for Executive Directors Key element Summary of Policy Details of approach for 2019 Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with Chief Executive Officer salary of 510,000 2% increase from 2018, Base salary any increase usually taking effect from March.
in line with the rest of the workforce.
Chief Financial Officer newly appointed on a salary of 475,000, see page 93.
Pension The Company operates a defined contribution Executive Directors continue to receive a contribution of scheme.
The maximum annual contribution for 10% of salary and both will receive cash in lieu of pension.
existing Executive Directors is 10% of salary.
Benefits include a car allowance of 8,000p.
a. private medical cover for the Executive Director and family, Benefits life assurance, long term disability insurance.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan on the same terms as All employee other employees.
plans Awards are based on financial, operational From 2019, 70% of the award will be based on adjusted operating Annual bonus and individual goals during the year.
The remainder of the award will be based on individual performance, measured against pre-determined 4Cs objectives, At least 50% of the award will be assessed aligned to our strategy.
This includes financial and non-financial against the Companys financial performance.
metrics relating to colleagues, customers, company and The remainder of the award will be based on community, in line with our bonus approach across the personal performance against individual objectives.
50% of maximum for on target performance The details of the performance targets for 2019 are commercially with an absolute maximum opportunity of 150% sensitive and will therefore be disclosed in next years report.
One third of any award made will be deferred into shares and will A proportion earned is deferred into Company vest after three years.
shares, which vest after at least three years.
Long Term Awards granted under the LTIP vest subject Awards of 200% of salary to both the CEO and CFO to the achievement of performance conditions 50% on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to FTSE 250, Incentive measured over a three year period.
with 25% of this element vesting for achievement of median Plan LTIP The normal maximum level of awards that may performance, rising to 100% for upper quartile performance: be made in respect of any financial year is 200% 50% on Earnings Per Share EPS, with 25% of this element of salary.
In exceptional circumstances the vesting for achievement of cumulative adjusted EPS of 63.6p Committee may grant awards of up to 300% per share, rising to 100% for 73.2p per share.
A two year holding period will apply post-vesting Typically a holding period of two years will apply post-vesting.
The Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a holding equivalent to twice their base salary.
Shareholding The time period for meeting this requirement will be five years from appointment.
guidelines Any Executive Director leaving the Company will be expected to hold the lesser of their existing shareholding or half of the shareholding requirement i. e. 100% of salary for two years.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 96 | Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Changes in UK corporate governance under the Policy, a two year holding period will apply for all long term incentive awards granted to Executive Directors The new UK Corporate Governance Code Code was published from 2019 onwards.
in July 2018 and applies to the Company from 1 January 2019.
Following the Codes publication, the Committee reviewed the executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent current executive remuneration policies and arrangements to 200% of salary, and should build up this holding within against the new requirements and has already made a number five years of appointment.
The Committee will consider further a new policy on post-employment shareholding has been enhancements in the course of 2019, and will monitor evolving introduced, effective from the 2019 AGM, whereby market practice as companies publish details of how they are shareholding equivalent to 100% of salary must be held by complying with the Code.
Details of further enhancements will Executive Directors for two years following departure.
be disclosed in the 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
the existing provisions on the use of discretion and malus The Company currently applies the Code as follows: and clawback have been expanded in the incentive plan the Committee determines the remuneration arrangements rules and the Policy in line with the new Code.
Malus and for senior executive management as well as the Executive clawback provisions have been expanded to include Directors, and also reviews remuneration for the wider corporate failure.
Examples of the Committees activities in the past pension provision for the existing Executive Directors is set year are shown on page 91. at 10% of salary, which is low relative to the market.
In the Committees consideration of remuneration for the recognition of emerging guidance on pension levels, the wider workforce includes a review of the ratio of CEO to all pension policy has been revised so that Executive Directors employee pay and benefits.
This is reported on page 104. recruited after the adoption of the new Policy will receive company contribution levels equivalent to the lesser of 10% of salary or the company contribution level for the majority of the workforce.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors audited information The following table sets out the audited total remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The figures above relate to the period from this date to 31 December 2018.
2 Gary Hoffman was the Chief Executive Officer until 1 March 2018 and remained an Executive Director until his transition to Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2018.
The figures above relate to the period from 1 January to 24 May 2018.
Please refer to the single figure table for Non-Executive Directors on page 101 of this report for details of fees received for the role of Chair of the Board.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 97 Additional notes to the table audited information Legacy incentives As disclosed in previous reports, a management incentive Benefits plan MIP was established at the time of the Goldman Sachs The benefits consist of private medical insurance for the investment in the business in January 2014, prior to our listing Executive Directors and their families, long term sickness as a public company.
In 2017, all conditions were met in full, cover, health screening, life assurance and a car allowance.
leading to full vesting of the MIP interests.
The cost of these benefits is included based on the latest completed returns to HMRC for the year ended 5 April 2018.
Further details can be found on page 89 of the Hastings The costs incurred since that return are not believed to be Group Holdings plc 2017 Annual Report.
substantially different to those reported.
Annual bonus Retirement benefits Annual bonus awards are determined based on the The amount set out in the table represents the Company Companys performance against pre-determined adjusted contribution to Directors pension at a rate of 10% of base operating profit targets and an assessment of overall salary.
Toby van der Meer and Richard Hoskins receive cash corporate and individual performance within the Groups 4Cs in lieu of pension.
Gary Hoffman received cash in lieu of framework.
This approach ensures that annual bonus awards pension until his appointment to the role of Non-Executive for all colleagues are assessed on a consistent basis and Chair on 24 May 2018. include a balanced assessment of financial and non-financial performance, in line with regulatory best practice.
2018 Annual bonus outturn audited information The table below provides full disclosure of the operating profit targets set at the start of the year and how the performance achievement in 2018 compares to these targets.
Performance range Outcome % of Entry Target Stretch Maximum Actual maximum Bonus outcome % of maximum 20% 50% 75% 100% Adjusted operating profit target 186.0m 203.0m 212.0m 217.0m 190.6m See note Growth on 2017 achievement on a like for like basis 1.0% 10.3% 15.2% 17.9% 3.5% As stated elsewhere, the adjusted operating profit of 190.6m includes 14.6m of VAT refunded during the year, in respect of historical periods.
Recognising that the impact of this refund brought the adjusted operating profit above bonus threshold level, the Committee felt that this was not the appropriate outcome as it did not give a true reflection of underlying financial performance.
The Committee therefore used its discretion not to include the VAT refund in the assessment of financial performance resulting in the financial threshold for bonus entitlement not being met.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 98 | Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Assessment of corporate performance against 4Cs objectives Our 4Cs Corporate performance achievement: Significant progress has been made for colleagues, with results above expectations.
Colleagues Key achievements included: Ensuring colleagues are engaged and that Hastings actively promotes Very strong YourVoice engagement survey results, significantly exceeding prior year a culture where colleagues can Significantly improved attrition and absence rates, exceeding targets contribute and thrive.
Leicester now fully established as a high performing operational site Good progress was made for customers, with key achievements including: Customers Differentiating us from our competitors Market leading online functionality on Guidewire, including new capabilities and high through great value pricing and products levels of customer registration, in line with plan and the way our customers buy Grade of service stabilised and improved in many areas insurance.
Achievement of Net Promoter Score targets Delivery of mobile app Company The market cycle has been more severe than expected, alongside heavy competition, premium deflation and market wide repair inflation.
Key achievements included: Enabling us to grow profitably and sustainably.
Calendar year loss ratio at the bottom of the target range A reduction in net debt leverage Pricing and data enrichment projects delivered in line with plan Community Continued to have a positive impact in the community.
Key achievements included: Taking an active part in serving the Maintained a productive relationship with both the FCA and GFSC community, by being a good neighbour, Delivered on GDPR, IDD and on track to implement SMCR nurturing home grown talent and being 1,100 community days delivered and 223 students supported under Hastings an ethical member of the financial Be the Change programme services community.
Bonus outcomes for Executive Directors The Chief Financial Officer has continued to effectively manage the Companys finance function and further Overall Company performance in 2018 has been solid enhanced the Groups financial standing, including and the Group has continued to make progress towards successfully reducing the debt to adjusted operating profit the delivery of its long term strategic objectives.
He also directed the successful issue of the Companys inaugural investment grade bond, with a seven The Company delivered a solid set of financial results despite year 250m issue in May 2018 at a 3.0% fixed rate of challenging market conditions.
As outlined above, the interest to provide longer term certainty of funding and Committee used its discretion not to use the published interest cost.
adjusted operating profit figure in the bonus calculation, and excluded the value of the VAT refund.
As a result, The Committee determined that, given these achievements, a no bonus was earned in respect of the financial element.
payment of 20% of maximum potential entitlement in respect of non-financial performance was appropriate for both the Non-financial performance was assessed against the 4Cs Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
During the Chief Executive Officers initial year in post the The resulting bonus outcomes were 83,333 20% of pro rata market cycle has been more severe than expected, salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 70,000 20% of combined with heavy competition and wider repair inflation.
salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
25% of these bonus In this context, he has delivered a solid set of results and is awards will be deferred into shares for three years.
setting the business up for continued profitable growth in future years, with progress on digital and data.
In particular, Long term incentive plan audited information the Committee noted the contribution made to reducing No LTIP awards were due to vest to Executive Directors the colleague attrition rate in respect of 2018.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 99 Board changes of these awards vested at the end of 2018, representing a value of 750,000 for Gary Hoffman, 500,000 for Richard Hoskins, As announced in January 2019, Richard Hoskins will retire as and 500,000 for Toby van der Meer.
Chief Financial Officer in 2019 and will be succeeded by John Worth.
Details of the treatment of Richards remuneration Capital Appreciation Plan on departure will be included in next years Report.
The Capital Appreciation Plan CAP was approved by the John Worths salary will be 475,000.
This was set in the Remuneration Committee in 2017.
Under this plan, certain context of his extensive industry expertise, his skills and members of the management team, excluding Executive experience and the importance to the business of securing Directors, were granted awards which would vest subject to a candidate of his calibre.
Johns salary is aligned with Chief the achievement of specified performance conditions.
Toby Financial Officer salaries at UK insurance peers with whom the van der Meer received a grant under the CAP as part of the Company competes for talent, reflects his extensive industry incentive arrangements relating to his role as Managing experience and is similar in value to the package he received Director, Retail.
In line with his contractual agreement, this at his former employer.
He will be eligible to an annual bonus award has remained in place following his appointment to the and a Long Term Incentive Plan award of 150% and 200% of role of Chief Executive Officer on 1 March 2018.
No further salary respectively, in line with the new Policy.
The bonus awards will be made to him under the CAP plan.
award for 2019 will be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the year spent in employment.
He will receive a pension Under this award, Toby van der Meer was required to pledge opportunity of 10% of salary and benefits in line with the shares Investment Shares and became eligible to receive up existing Policy.
to five shares Matching Shares for every Investment Share held.
Matching Shares will be awarded based on a performance In order to facilitate his recruitment, John will receive an award condition linked to total shareholder return TSR measured to compensate for the value lost from annual incentive awards over a performance period of five years from the date of grant, forfeited at his former employer.
This will be made partly in cash subject to a minimum award of one Matching Share if TSR and partly in deferred shares, to match the structure of the exceeds the minimum threshold of 32%.
The number of forfeited award.
Details will be disclosed in the 2019 Directors Matching Shares will increase as each specified TSR threshold Remuneration Report once the award has been made.
is reached, subject to a maximum of five Matching Shares if TSR over the five year period exceeds 131%.
Total entitlement to Historical arrangements Matching Shares at the end of the performance period shall be released in three tranches: one third at the end of the Admission Awards performance period, a further third 12 months later, and the As disclosed in previous reports, Executive Directors were final third 12 months after that.
The Investment Shares must granted conditional share awards at the time of the Companys remain pledged throughout the performance period to admission to the London Stock Exchange Admission Awards.
maintain eligibility to receive any Matching Shares due, and These awards were not subject to performance conditions.
In standard good leaver and bad leaver, and malus and clawback, line with the original terms of these awards, the remaining half provisions apply to unvested awards.
Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors in the year audited information The LTIP awards shown in the table below were granted to Executive Directors in 2018.
These awards may vest in 2021 conditional on performance over a three year period to 31 December 2020.
The deferred bonus awards represent the portion of the 2017 bonus that was deferred into shares.
Percentage vesting at Performance Basis of award threshold period Scheme maximum Face value performance end date Toby van der Meer LTIP conditional 225% of 1,250,000 25% 31 December share award salary 2020 Deferred bonus 25% of 39,375 n a n a conditional share award 2017 bonus Richard Hoskins LTIP conditional 200% of 700,000 25% 31 December share award salary 2020 Deferred bonus 25% of 46,763 n a n a conditional share award 2017 bonus Gary Hoffman former CEO Deferred bonus 25% of 73,062 n a n a conditional share award 2017 bonus Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 100 | Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued The LTIP and Deferred Bonus awards were granted on 6 April External appointments 2018.
The face values have been calculated using the average Executive Directors may hold external directorships if the share price over the five dealing days 1 March to 7 March 2018 Board determines that such appointments do not cause any of 2.7332. conflict of interest or adversely impact the Directors ability to effectively fulfil his duties for the Company.
Where such The Committee considered the key long term objectives over appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the the performance period and determined that the awards Board to agree whether fees paid in respect of the appointment should be linked to the value created for shareholders over are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
As a consequence the awards are equally weighted against relative total shareholder return TSR and adjusted Richard Hoskins currently holds one external appointment, earnings per share EPS performance targets.
The EPS target as Non-Executive Director of Aztec Group Limited, for which is a cumulative pence per share target over each of the three he received 65,000. years.
The targets for the LTIP granted in 2018 are summarised below: Service agreements Date of Notice Unexpired EPS Relative TSR Director appointment period term Vesting is based on the Vesting is based on TSR Richard Hoskins 03 09 2015 6 months 6 months cumulative pence per share performance measured Toby van der Meer 01 03 2018 6 months 6 months target over the three year against the constituents CEO from 1 March 2018 performance cycle of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts In line with our Policy, Executive Directors have rolling contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or the Director giving six months notice.
EPS Proportion TSR Proportion performance vesting performance vesting Below threshold 0% Below median 0% Threshold 68.2p 25% Median 25% per share Stretch 79.1p 100% Upper quartile 100% per share Straight line vesting between Straight line vesting between threshold and stretch median and upper quartile Awards made in 2019 will vest on the basis of: 50% on relative TSR, with targets and vesting schedule unchanged from those that applied to the 2018 awards as set out in the table above: 50% on cumulative adjusted EPS, with threshold target set at 63.6p per share and stretch at 73.2p per share.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 101 Single total figure of remuneration Non-Executive Directors audited information The following table sets out the audited total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors.
2018 2017 1 January 2018 1 January 2017 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Fees and Fees and expenses expenses 1 Gary Hoffman appointed 24 May 2018 140,399 Thomas Colraine 85,399 82,419 Malcolm Le May appointment terminated 25 April 2018 23,636 66,704 Ian Cormack 50,000 50,000 2 Pierre Lefvre 107,040 94,074 Sumit Rajpal Alison Burns 50,895 50,659 Teresa Robson-Capps 62,671 51,836 Selina Sagayam appointed 14 August 2017.
Re-appointed 29 June 2018 91,400 12,304 Herman Bosman Elizabeth Chambers appointed 26 September 2018 11,707 Michael Fairey appointment terminated 24 May 2018 70,145 160,000 1 The fees paid to Gary Hoffman represent the fees payable following his appointment as Chair of the Board on 24 May 2018.
Please refer to the single figure table for Executive Directors on page 96 of this report for details of remuneration paid with respect to his role as an Executive Director.
2 Pierre Lefvre is entitled to receive a total annual fee of 110,000, comprising 65,000 for his role as Independent Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Risk Committee, of the Company and 45,000 for his duties as a Non-Executive Director and chair of the risk committee of Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
3 Selina Sagayam is entitled to receive a total annual fee of 95,000, comprising 50,000 for her duties as Non-Executive Director, of the Company, and 45,000 for her role as Non-Executive Director of Hastings Insurance Services Limited.
Notes to the table Non-Executive Director fees for 2019 Fees audited information Non-Executive Director fees are set out below.
Non-Executive Directors receive fees and reimbursable expenses only: none participate in any form of incentive schemes.
Gary Hoffman has retained outstanding deferred Fee per bonus and LTIP awards granted to him during his time as an Role annum Executive Director, as described in the 2017 Directors Chair basic fee 250,000 Remuneration Report.
Non-Executive Director basic fee 50,000 Additional fees The fees shown include additional fees for chairing Board Chair of the Nomination Committee 10,000 committees where appropriate.
In 2017 and 2018, Sumit Senior Independent Director 15,000 Rajpal and Herman Bosman waived their fees for their roles Chair of the Audit Committee 15,000 as Non-Executive Directors.
Chair of the Risk Committee 10,000 Chair of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 102 | Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Letters of Appointment Statement of Directors shareholding and scheme interests audited information Non-Executive Directors have an agreement for service for an initial three year term which can be terminated by either party The table below sets out the Directors shareholdings in giving three months notice.
The table below sets out these the Company as at 31 December 2018. terms for all current Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
New Executive Date of Letter Notice Unexpired Directors will be expected to meet the requirement within five Director of Appointment period term years of appointment.
If the requirement is not met within the Gary Hoffman 24 05 2018 3 months 26 months timeframe, the Committee would generally expect Executive Directors to purchase additional shares.
Both Toby van der Meer Herman Bosman 14 03 2017 3 months Open and Richard Hoskins have met this target.
Alison Burns 12 07 2016 3 months 6 months Elizabeth Chambers 26 09 2018 3 months 32 months From the 2019 AGM, any Executive Director leaving the Thomas Colraine 01 08 2018 3 months 31 months Company will be expected to maintain a shareholding as set Ian Cormack 01 08 2018 3 months 31 months out in the Remuneration Policy of the equivalent to their base Pierre Lefvre 03 09 2015 3 months 32 months salary for a period of two years.
Sumit Rajpal 28 09 2015 3 months Open Teresa Robson-Capps 12 07 2016 3 months 6 months 1 Scheme interests : Selina Sagayam 29 06 2018 3 months 30 months Unvested Unvested conditional nil-cost share awards options Deferred shares 1 2 not subject LTIP awards CAP awards Number of to further subject to subject to shares performance performance performance owned conditions conditions conditions Toby van der Meer 3,534,189 27,627 649,589 567,165 Richard Hoskins 871,766 33,767 555,970 Gary Hoffman 7,948,721 51,851 452,170 Thomas Colraine 76,470 Ian Cormack 35,294 Pierre Lefvre 87,837 Sumit Rajpal Teresa RobsonCapps Alison Burns Selina Sagayam Herman Bosman Elizabeth Chambers 1 See page 98.
2 The CEO received an award under the CAP prior to his appointment to the Board.
See page 99 for more information.
The following changes occurred to the Directors direct beneficial interests in shares between 31 December 2018 and 20 March 2019.
Gary Hoffman acquired 217,284 Company shares and Richard Hoskins acquired 144,855 Company shares on 4 January 2019 following vesting of the final tranche of Admission Awards.
No Director has a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 103 Other information TSR chart The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK Payments to former Directors audited information FTSE 250 Index from the Companys Admission in October There were no payments to former Directors made in the year.
The FTSE 250 Index was selected on the basis that the Company is a member of the FTSE 250.
Payments for loss of office audited information There were no payments for loss of office made in the year.
250 200 150 100 50 Oct 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 Hastings FTSE 250 Historical Chief Executive Officer remuneration Given that the Company has only been a listed entity since 15 October 2015, the following table sets out information regarding the Chief Executive Officers historical pay since listing: 2018 Toby van 2018 2017 2016 2015 der Meer Gary Hoffman Gary Hoffman Gary Hoffman Gary Hoffman 1 March 2018 1 January 2018 1 January 2017 1 January 2016 3 September 2015 31 December 28 February 31 December 31 December 31 December 1 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 Including legacy 541,976 262,778 11,829,466 798,368 1,830,477 arrangements Single figure of remuneration Excluding legacy 541,976 262,778 855,587 798,368 330,477 arrangements Annual bonus payout 20% n a 62% 50% 44% as a % of maximum opportunity Long term incentive payout n a n a n a n a n a as a % of maximum opportunity 1 Represents remuneration paid to Gary Hoffman with respect to his role as Chief Executive Officer until 28 February 2018.
The remainder of the remuneration disclosed in the single figure table on page 101 of this report relate to Garys role as an Executive Director from 1 March 2018 to 23 May 2018.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 104 | Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer Relative importance of spend on pay remuneration The following table illustrates total remuneration for The table below sets out details of the percentage change in all Company colleagues compared to distributions to shareholders for the financial years ended 31 December 2018 salary, benefits and annual bonus for Chief Executive Officer and for all Company colleagues.
Change in remuneration from Year ended Year ended 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018 31 31 December December Change in Change in Change in 2018 2017 base salary benefits bonus Shareholder distributions Chief Executive Officer 5.3% 17.5% 65.8% dividends and share buy backs 85.5m 70.3m Employee comparator group 6.1% 19.1% 27.4% Total Company colleague remuneration 95.6m 92.3m Chief Executive Officer pay ratio Advice and support provided to the The Government recently introduced legislation requiring Remuneration Committee all quoted companies with more than 250 UK employees During the year Deloitte LLP Deloitte provided advice as to publish the ratio of the Chief Executive Officers single figure independent remuneration consultants, with the cost of the to the total remuneration of full-time equivalent employees.
advice being borne by the Company.
Total fees in 2018 for Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the advice and support provided to the Remuneration Committee legislation for another year, the Remuneration Committee has were 92,350.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the elected to disclose the ratio for 2018 in this report, in line with Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in relation to best practice guidance.
executive remuneration consultancy during the year.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement The table below sets out the ratio of the Chief Executive partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the Officers pay to the 25th percentile, median and 75th percentile Committee do not have connections with the Company that total remuneration of full-time equivalent employees.
During the year, Deloitte also provided tax and other unrelated consultancy services to the 25th 75th Group.
The Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, HR percentile Median pay percentile Year Method pay ratio ratio pay ratio Director and Head of Reward attended Committee meetings by invitation in order to support the discussion of the agenda 2018 Option A 36:1 32:1 23:1 items as appropriate.
No individual participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Committee has opted to use Option A for calculating the pay ratio, in line with best practice guidance.
The Chief Shareholder context Executive Officer pay figure is based on the aggregate of the pro-rated data for each of the two incumbents during 2018.
The table below shows the results of the binding vote on the Data for all employees is effective as at 31 December 2018. last Policy approved at the 2016 AGM and the advisory vote on the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2018 AGM.
It The total pay and benefits for the individuals used in the is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders calculations above are as follows: prior to any major changes to the Policy, and to maintain an ongoing dialogue on executive remuneration matters.
The Committee carried out a consultation exercise with major 25th 75th shareholders, and proxy voting agencies, on the new Policy in percentile Median pay percentile pay ratio ratio pay ratio late 2018 and feedback from that consultation was taken into Total pay and benefits 18,251 20,481 27,775 account when finalising the new remuneration arrangements.
Of which salary 17,170 19,024 25,500 For Against Abstentions We ensure that colleagues are fairly remunerated for their 451,915,454 12,771,637 917,325 2017 Annual Report contribution to the success of the Group, more information is on Remuneration 97% 3% 0% provided on page 42.
529,122,180 90,504 1,775 2015 Remuneration Policy 99.98% 0.02% 0% for and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee Thomas Colraine Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2019 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 105 Directors Remuneration Policy Overall increase in variable opportunity of 25%, to reflect This section sets out the the increased size of the business.
Remuneration Policy for the Increase in proportion of bonus deferred and introduction of holding period to ensure this increase is made in the Directors of the Company, context of greater alignment to shareholders long term interests, and in recognition of evolving market practice.
split between Executive Discretion and recovery Directors and Non-Executive Summary of changes strengthening provisions on the Committees discretion Directors the Policy.
to dis-apply the formulaic outcome of the performance conditions applicable to variable pay have been included.
This updated Policy will be malus and clawback provisions extended to include put to a binding shareholder material corporate failure.
Reasons for changes Following the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the accompanying If approved by shareholders, it will become Guidance, the Committee reviewed the existing plan effective from that date and will be subject to documentation and determined that the existing provisions review and approval by shareholders at least should be strengthened.
The Policy has been updated to every three years, or sooner should the Company ensure consistency with these changes.
choose to amend the Policy.
The Committee may Share ownership make minor amendments to the Policy set out in Summary of changes this report for regulatory, exchange control, tax guideline of 200% of salary, to be built up within five years or administrative purposes or to take account and maintained.
of a change in legislation, without obtaining on cessation of employment, Executive Directors are shareholder approval for such amendments.
expected to maintain an interest in shares equivalent to the lesser of 100% of salary or their shareholding at the time of Summary of changes to policy their departure, typically for a period of two years thereafter.
Many of the features of the previous Policy will continue to apply for 2019 onwards.
However, the Committee approved Reasons for changes the following material changes for 2019, which are described 200% of salary guideline was previously applied and was in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
This has now been added enshrined in the Policy, together with the Annual bonus and long term incentive plan opportunities post-employment shareholding guideline, in recognition of and time horizons evolving best practice following the publication of the Code.
Summary of changes maximum annual bonus opportunity increased from 100% Pensions of salary to 150% of salary.
Summary of changes for Executive Directors recruited after the adoption of portion typically deferred increased from 25% of bonus this Policy, pension contributions will be no more than the to 33% of bonus.
percentage company contribution level for the majority normal maximum LTIP opportunity reduced from 225% of the workforce.
the maximum for existing Executive Directors is unchanged.
a holding period of two years will typically apply post-vesting.
Reasons for changes This change to the pension policy has been adopted to align Reasons for changes with the expectations set out by proxy voting advisory bodies Opportunities rebalanced to be more evenly weighted between following the publication of the Code.
short term and long term performance, better reflecting the Companys position as a more mature FTSE 250 company and aligning more closely with the market.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 106 | Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy Table Executive Directors Element and link Maximum Performance to strategy Operation opportunity measures Base salary The Committee takes into account a There is no set maximum for salary None Fixed remuneration number of factors when setting and levels, or salary increases.
Account that is appropriate for reviewing salaries, including: will be taken of increases applied the role and to secure to colleagues as a whole when scope and responsibility and retain the talent determining salary increases for of the role: required by the the Executive Directors, but the any changes to the scope Company.
Committee retains the discretion or size of the role: to award higher increases where the skills and experience it considers it appropriate.
of the individual: Salaries are normally reviewed salary levels for similar roles within annually, with any increase usually appropriate comparators: and taking effect from March.
value of the remuneration package as a whole.
Pension The Company operates defined The maximum annual company None Fixed remuneration contribution group personal contribution for existing Executive that assists in pension schemes.
Directors is currently 10% of salary.
providing income For Executive Directors recruited Executive Directors may elect to opt out in retirement.
after the adoption of this Policy, of the pension scheme and receive the pension arrangements will be no equivalent Company contribution as a more than the percentage company cash allowance.
contribution level for the majority of the workforce.
Benefits Benefits include, but are not limited to, a The current car allowance is a fixed None Fixed remuneration car allowance, private medical cover for amount of 8,000 per annum.
The that provides the Executive Director and family, life Committee retains the discretion to protection for the assurance, and long term disability review this in line with levels in the individual which is insurance.
Where an Executive Director is required to The cost of other benefits is relocate, benefits may be provided to dependent on the terms of support the relocation, including the relevant provider and the relocation assistance, housing or a individuals personal circumstances housing allowance and reimbursement of and therefore no monetary travel costs where appropriate and any maximum has been set.
All employee Executive Directors may participate in any Participation in any HMRC-approved None share plans all employee share plans such as the all-employee share plan is subject Aligns colleagues and Companys Share Incentive Plan on the to the maximum permitted by the shareholder interests.
same terms as all other employees.
Annual bonus Objectives are set annually based on the 75% of salary for on-target Awards are based on Variable remuneration achievement of strategic goals.
At the performance with an absolute financial, operational and that rewards the end of the bonus year, the Committee maximum opportunity individual goals during achievement of meets to review individual and corporate of 150% salary.
annual financial, performance against objectives and No bonus linked to financial At least 70% of the award operational and determines payout levels.
performance will be paid for will be assessed against individual objectives The annual bonus scheme allows the failing to achieve target the Companys financial reflective of Company Committee to exercise discretion to adjust threshold performance.
The strategy over a one the level of bonus to reflect Company and remainder of the award year period.
individual performance and any other will be based on personal factors it considers relevant.
performance against individual and or A portion of bonus will normally be strategic objectives.
The deferred into an award of shares under split between these the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
Normally, performance measures not less than one third of any bonus will be will be determined deferred for a period of at least three years.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 107 Remuneration Policy Table Executive Directors Element and link Maximum Performance to strategy Operation opportunity measures Long Term Incentive Awards granted under the LTIP vest The normal maximum level of LTIP performance Plan LTIP subject to achievement of performance awards that may be made in conditions will be Variable remuneration conditions measured over a period of at respect of a financial year is 200% reviewed annually.
designed to least three years.
Typically a holding of salary 225% for awards granted Conditions and targets incentivise and reward period of two years will apply post-vesting.
In exceptional will be selected to align the achievement of circumstances the Committee with the Companys long The LTIP rules allow the Committee to retain long term targets may grant awards of up to 300% term strategy.
discretion, in line with the UK Corporate aligned with of salary.
Governance Code, to adjust the level of Currently awards are shareholder interests.
vesting based on the formulaic outcome linked to a measure The LTIP also assists of the performance conditions to reflect based on shareholder in the retention of Company and individual performance and returns and a measure Executive Directors.
any other factors it considers relevant.
For 2019, 50% of awards are linked to Total Shareholder Return performance and 50% to Earnings Per Share performance.
The Committee retains the discretion to vary the weightings and measures in future years.
At threshold performance, no more than 25% of the award will vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
Share Ownership The Executive Directors are expected to None None Enhances Executive build up, over five years, and maintain, Directors alignment ownership of the Companys shares equal with shareholders to 200% of salary.
On cessation of employment, for a period of two years, Executive Directors are expected to maintain share ownership equivalent to the lesser of 100% of salary or their shareholding at the time of their departure typically for a period of two years.
Notes to the policy table Any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office not in line with the Policy detailed above may nevertheless be made where i the terms of the payment or award were agreed before a the 2016 AGM when the Companys first directors remuneration policy came into effect or b this Policy came into effect, provided it was in line with the directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed, where relevant, and ii the individual was not a Director of the Company at the time and in the Committees opinion was not in consideration for becoming a Director of the Company including awards under the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP.
The CAP was awarded to certain senior executives who were not Board members including the Chief Executive prior to his appointment to that role and further details of the Chief Executives CAP awards are disclosed in line with the relevant reporting requirements in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 108 | Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Performance measures and approach Common award terms to target setting Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this Policy may: Annual bonus a. b e granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options The performance measures for the annual bonus are or in such other form that the Committee determines has designed to provide an appropriate balance between the same economic effect: incentivising Executive Directors to meet financial targets for the year and to achieve specific strategic, operational b. h ave any performance conditions applicable to them and personal goals without placing undue incentive emphasis amended or substituted by the Committee if the Committee on short term success at the expense of long term growth.
determines an amended or substituted performance Personal and corporate objectives are recommend by the condition would be more appropriate and not materially Committee to the Board for approval each year to ensure less difficult to satisfy: that Executive Directors are focused on the key financial and strategic objectives for the financial year.
In doing so, the c. i ncorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or Committee usually takes into account a number of internal additional shares equal to the value of dividends which and external reference points, including the Groups business would have been paid on the shares under an award that plan and Group operating profit targets.
vest up to the time of vesting or where an LTIP award is subject to a holding period, the end of that holding period.
LTIP This amount may not be calculated assuming that the The Committee believes it is important that the performance dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on conditions applying to LTIP awards support the long term a cumulative basis: ambitions of the Group and the creation of shareholder value.
The Committee currently considers that relative TSR and EPS d. b e settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and or are the most appropriate measures to assess the underlying performance of the business, while creating alignment with e. b e adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys shareholders and rewarding long term value creation.
The share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or Committee will keep the measures and weightings under other event that may affect the Companys share price.
review to ensure that the most appropriate measures to promote the long term success of the Group are used.
Malus and clawback Performance targets are set taking into account a number of The Committee may reduce the size of unvested bonus and reference points, including the Groups long term business LTIP awards if a there is a material misstatement of audited plan, market conditions and consensus forecasts.
results or an error in the assessment of the performance conditions applicable to an award or it being based on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions : b the Executive Director commits gross misconduct: c there is a material corporate failure: or d events or the Executive Directors behaviour have a significant detrimental impact on the Groups reputation and the Committee determines the Executive Director is responsible or directly accountable for that damage during a period beginning, in the case of bonus awards, at the start of the bonus year and ending three years after the bonus was determined and, in the case of the LTIP, at the start of the performance period and ending on the sixth anniversary of the grant date.
During the same period, the Committee may also require the participant to repay some or all the value of the cash or shares received under an award in the circumstances referred to in a to d. Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 109 Chief Executive Ocer Toby van der Meer Illustration of the remuneration policy The remuneration arrangements have been designed to 0.56m Minimum ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent 100% 11% 1.19m on the delivery of stretching short term and long term Target 47% 21% 21% performance targets aligned with the Groups objectives, and 2.31m on delivering shareholder value.
The Committee considers the Stretch 24% 22% 11% 43% 2.81m level of remuneration that may be received under different Share Price 20% 18% 9% 36% 18% Growth 50% performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts that follow provide illustrative Fixed Pay Cash Bonus Deferred Bonus LTIP Share Price Growth values of the annual remuneration packages for Executive Directors based on four assumed performance scenarios.
Minimum reflects fixed remuneration only.
Target performance Chief Financial Ocer John Worth is on-target performance for bonus awards and threshold 0.53m performance for LTIP i. e. 25% of maximum.
Stretch Minimum 100% performance reflects maximum performance under both 11% 1.13m the bonus and the LTIP.
Share Price Growth shows the Target 47% 21% 21% 2.20m additional impact of share price appreciation of 50% over Stretch 24% 22% 11% 43% the three-year performance period share price has 2.67m otherwise not been taken into account in the other Share Price 20% 18% 9% 36% 18% Growth 50% scenarios.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
These Fixed Pay Cash Bonus Deferred Bonus LTIP Share Price Growth scenarios are based on the proposed Remuneration policy.
Non-Executive Directors Approach to fees Performance and link to strategy Operation measures Fixed payment to remunerate The Chairs fee is determined by the Committee.
None Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
Set at an appropriate level to No Director is involved in setting his her own remuneration.
attract Non-Executive Directors of the required calibre and to Fee levels are determined by assessing the skills and experience required reflect the time commitment along with the likely time commitment and market indicators.
and responsibility of the position.
Fees may be paid in cash or company shares.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board responsibilities, including membership and chairship of committees or acting as the Senior Independent Director or where the Non-Executive Director is required to commit a materially increased amount of time beyond what was anticipated at the start of the year to their duties.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive Director duties for the Company are reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, with the Company bearing the cost of individual tax liability on such payments by grossing up the reimbursement.
Non-Executive Director fees are subject to a maximum cap of 1,500,000 as stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in this would be subject to shareholder approval.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 110 | Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Directors service contracts Bonus Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which are There is no contractual entitlement to a bonus in any year.
terminable on six months notice on either side.
The contracts The Committee retains discretion to award bonuses for provide for mitigation of any payment in lieu of notice to the leavers taking into account the circumstances of departure.
extent that the Executive Director secures alternative Any bonus would normally be subject to performance, and employment during what would have been the full notice time pro-rating as appropriate and would be paid in such period.
The service contracts for Executive Directors make proportions of cash and deferred shares as the Committee no provision for termination payments, other than for considers appropriate.
payment in lieu of salary.
Deferred bonus The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions If the Executive Director dies, any outstanding awards will vest relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, salary at the time of his death.
continuance in the event of extended absence due to illness, holiday and sick pay, life insurance, personal accident, medical Awards granted prior to 2019 will not be forfeit on cessation insurance, dependants pensions, and the reimbursement of of employment save for contractual breach or gross reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive misconduct.
From 2019, if an Executive Director is designated Directors while on Company business.
as a good leaver any outstanding deferred bonus awards will normally vest according to the usual schedule, unless the The service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who Committee determines that they should vest earlier.
Good were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and leaver circumstances are in cases of injury, disability, ill-health, therefore have no end date.
The date of commencement for retirement, the sale of the individuals employing company or the service contract is 1 March 2018 in respect of the Chief businesses out of the Group or for any other reason at the Executive Officer and 8 October 2015 in respect of the Chief discretion of the Committee.
In any other circumstances, Financial Officer.
any unvested deferred bonus awards will lapse.
Loss of office payment policy Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any Treatment of LTIP awards is governed by the LTIP rules.
compensation payable will be determined by reference to the If an Executive Director is designated as a good leaver any terms of the service contract between the Company and the outstanding LTIP awards will, unless the Committee employee, as well as the rules of any awards relating to determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reflect the portion variable pay.
The Committee may structure any compensation of the performance period that has elapsed at the time the payments beyond the notice provisions in the contract in such Executive Director leaves and will normally vest based on a way as it deems appropriate taking into account the performance to the end of the original performance period, circumstances of departure.
unless the Committee at its absolute discretion determines an alternative approach should apply.
Good leaver circumstances The Committee reserves the right to make any other are in cases of injury, disability, ill-health, retirement, the sale payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office of the individuals employing company or businesses out of or employment where the payments are made in good faith the Group or for any other reason at the discretion of the in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of Committee.
In the event of death, awards will normally vest damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of early taking to account the Committees assessment of settlement of any claim arising in connection with the performance against the performance conditions to the date cessation of a Directors office or employment or for any fees of death and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and the pro-rating as described above.
In any other circumstances, or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation any unvested LTIP awards will lapse.
In the event that any Executive Director leaves during a Payment in lieu of notice holding period applicable to an award, his award will normally The Company may at its discretion make termination be released as if he had not left unless the Committee payments in lieu of notice based only on base salary.
The determines the holding period should end earlier.
However, notice period for both Executive Directors is six months.
if the Executive Director is summarily dismissed during the holding period, his award will lapse.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 111 Change of control The service contract for new appointments will be consistent with the Policy set out above for existing Executive Directors.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, outstanding incentive awards will be treated in line with the Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the provisions of the applicable plan rules.
Deferred bonus awards Group, any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line will vest in full and LTIP awards will vest to the extent with the original terms and conditions as long as these do not determined by the Committee, taking into account the extent cause a material conflict with the Policy set out above.
If an to which the performance conditions have, in the Committees Executive Director is appointed following an acquisition of, or opinion, been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions otherwise, the proportion of the performance period elapsed.
that are of higher value than provided in the Policy would Any holding periods applicable to LTIP awards will cease normally be honoured.
If a new Chair or Non-Executive Director is appointed, In the event the Company is wound up or there is a demerger, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those special dividend or other event which, in the Committees detailed earlier in the Policy report.
opinion, may affect the share price, it may allow awards to vest on the same basis as a change of control.
Employee consultation The Company is committed to the alignment of all employee Other payments interests with shareholders, using every opportunity to Other payments such as legal fees or outplacement costs further evolve and strengthen our position, especially via may be paid if it is considered appropriate.
This will realise the benefits of improved employee engagement as well as making sure Recruitment policy that we comply with the specific requirements of the In determining remuneration for new Executive Directors, enhanced UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
In the Committee will consider all relevant factors, including the accordance with the revised Code, the Chair of the Board requirements of the role, the external market and internal has been designated the Non-Executive Director relativities, while aiming not to pay more than is necessary to responsible for engaging on workforce-related issues.
The Committee will seek to align the new Executive Directors remuneration package to Other considerations the Policy set out on page 106.
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in Normally, benefits including pension will be limited to those the Group, especially in terms of salary reviews and the outlined in the Policy table above, including relocation application of awards relative to corporate performance.
The maximum level of variable Colleagues within the Group receive base salary, benefits, pay excluding any buyouts that may be awarded to a new pension and an annual bonus.
The terms and value of these Executive Director will be limited to 450% of base salary, as set elements will vary based on role seniority.
As noted out in the Policy table.
The Committee believes that the Colleagues are invited to participate in the SIP to align existing incentive plans contain sufficient flexibility to provide interests with the Companys shareholders, however, in line any specific awards that may be necessary to secure a with market practice only senior executives within the particular individual.
Within this limit, the Committee may Company are currently eligible to participate in the LTIP.
include any element included within the approved policy, or any other element which the Committee considers is Since the Company became a publicly listed entity, the appropriate given the particular circumstances.
Committee has been committed to understanding the views of the Companys shareholders, and carried out a consultation The Committee may buy out remuneration terms a new hire with the largest shareholders prior to finalising this Policy.
has had to forfeit on joining the Group.
Any such buyout The Committee is always open to listening to the views of awards will be of comparable commercial value and reflect as our shareholders and engaging in ongoing dialogue with them closely as practicable the form and structure of the forfeited on executive remuneration matters.
The Committee also takes awards, including time horizons and performance conditions full account of the guidelines of investor advisory bodies and the probability of those conditions being met.
Where and shareholder views in determining the remuneration appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to use the arrangements in operation within the Group.
provisions provided in the Listing Rules for the purpose of making such an award, or to utilise any other incentive plan operated by the Group.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
