64 | Board of Directors Maintaining effective governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Our Board structure and governance approach are designed to ensure that we retain our strong focus on value generation and that we operate throughout as a highly ethical and responsible business.
Board structure Board composition Chair 1 Exec 2 INED 7 NED 2 Board gender Male 8 1 Female 4 Gary Hoffman Chair Age 4049 3 5059 5 6069 3 70 1 2 Tobias van der Meer Experience Chief Executive Officer Finance Banking 8 Insurance 7 Technology Telecoms 3 Legal 1 Consultancy 1 3 Richard Hoskins Chief Financial Officer Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 65 4 9 Pierre Lefvre Herman Bosman Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 5 10 Alison Burns Sumit Rajpal Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 6 11 Elizabeth Chambers Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director 7 12 Thomas Colraine Selina Sagayam Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director 8 Ian Cormack Independent Non-Executive Director Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 66 | Corporate governance Board of Directors continued The Directors who were in office and their Committee memberships as at 31 December 2018 were as follows: Gary Hoffman Herman Bosman 1 4 Chair Non-Executive Director Appointed: 15 June 2015 Appointed: 14 March 2017 Gary was appointed Chair in May 2018 having previously served Herman is the Chief Executive Officer of RMI and its sister as Chief Executive Officer of the Group since November 2012. company RMB Holdings, having joined the companies in April He has extensive experience in the banking and insurance 2014.
Prior to his current role he was Head of Corporate industries.
Prior to joining the Group, Gary was Chief Executive Finance at RMB from 2000 until 2006 and Chief Executive Officer of NBNK Investments, an investment vehicle formed in Officer of Deutsche Bank South Africa from 2006 to 2013.
August 2010 to establish personal and business retail banking Herman is a Non-Executive Director of Discovery Limited, in the UK.
Prior to that, he led the UK governments turnaround FirstRand Limited and OUTsurance Holdings Limited.
He of Northern Rock as its Chief Executive Officer.
His previous also serves on the Board of Governors of the University of roles also include Vice-Chair of Barclays PLC, having previously Johannesburg, is Chair of Endeavor South Africa and Business been Chair of UK Banking and Barclaycard at Barclays PLC and Arts South Africa and served eight years as a Trustee of following five years as Chief Executive Officer of Barclaycard, the Deutsche Bank South Africa Foundation.
He holds a BCom and Non-Executive Chair of VISA Europe and Non-Executive Law LLM and is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
He is Non-Executive Chair of the Coventry Building Society and Monzo Bank, and Chair of the UK sports charity, the Football Foundation.
Tobias van der Meer Alison Burns N Re R 2 5 Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 March 2018 Appointed: 12 July 2016 Toby has been Chief Executive Officer since 1 March 2018.
Alison has held executive and non-executive roles within Aviva He joined Hastings in 2011 as Managing Director Retail, where plc, including the position of Chief Executive Officer of Aviva he held responsibility for the profit and loss of the UK retail Ireland.
Alison has extensive financial services experience, business, which covered around two thirds of the Group profits.
gained in senior roles with Santander, Bupa, Lloyds Bank and Toby has considerable digital and customer service experience AXA.
She brings strong leadership and executive management and held responsibility for product, retail pricing, brand, digital experience with extensive experience developing strong and marketing, and customer operations at the Groups UK customer relationships in regulated businesses.
Before joining Hastings, Toby was a Managing Director at serves, since March 2018, as a Non-Executive Director of moneysupermarket.
com plc, one of the UKs leading price Equiniti Group plc.
comparison websites, where he was responsible for the money and broker led business and operations.
Before that he spent nearly a decade in senior financial services roles including Elizabeth Chambers 6 leading Citigroup UKs retail bank and as a member of the Independent Non-Executive Director executive team of online bank Egg.
Appointed: 26 September 2018 Libby serves on the boards of Provident Financial Group and Richard Hoskins Smith & Williamson, and advises fintech and software 3 Chief Financial Officer companies on their growth plans.
Her executive career includes C-level strategy, marketing and product roles at Appointed: 3 September 2015 Western Union, Barclays, Barclaycard, and Bank of America.
Richard has been the Chief Financial Officer of the Group since She also led Barclaycards co-branded cards and insurance April 2015 and joined the Board in September 2015.
Libby is known for leading digital Chartered Accountant with extensive experience in the transformations and rejuvenating brands, and has a long track insurance industry.
Prior to joining the Group, Richard was the record of building strong customer relationships in regulated Chief Financial Officer of Global Commercial Insurance at AIG.
Previous directorships have included Dollar Prior to that he served at Aviva as Chief Executive Officer of Financial Group, hibu plc, Home and Savings Bank, and the the groups North American operations and as Chief Financial boards of Barclays joint ventures with Argos, Thomas Cook, Officer of Old Mutuals North American operations.
He is also a and Littlewoods.
Earlier in her career, she was a partner in the Non-Executive Director of Aztec Group Limited based in Jersey.
Financial Services practice at McKinsey, and started her career as a financial analyst with Morgan Stanley.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 67 Key Chair A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee Re Remuneration Committee R Risk Committee Thomas Colraine Sumit Rajpal A N Re 7 10 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 3 September 2015 Appointed: 3 September 2015 Tom brings a wealth of experience from the insurance and Sumit was appointed as Non-Executive Director of the Group financial services sector.
He was previously Group Chief by reason of the investment made by Goldman Sachs in the Financial Officer and Co-Chief Operating Officer at Willis Group Group in 2014.
Sumit Co-Heads the Corporate Private Equity Holdings, and Chief Financial Officer at AIG Europe Limited.
business globally and runs the Americas Corporate Private He is a Chartered Accountant, on the Board of Marsh Limited, Equity business in the Merchant Banking Division of Goldman and is also Chair of Cambridge Topco Limited, the holding Sachs.
He also serves on the boards of K&N Engineering, company for the Compre Group.
Ipreo, ProSight Specialty Insurance and Safeguard Products.
Teresa Robson-Capps Ian Cormack A N Re 11 A R 8 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 12 July 2016 Appointed: 3 September 2015 Teresa brings significant experience with international blue Ian spent 30 years at Citibank where he was appointed chip companies including HSBC, Accenture, BT Mobile, various head of UK and Co-head of the Global Financial Institutions high street and internet retailers and across the insurance business before becoming Chief Executive Officer of AIGs industry.
Her functional experience spans customer, European business in 2000 until 2002.
He currently serves information technology, and financial management.
as a non-executive on the boards of JUST Group plc, Royal She is currently a Non-Executive Director of CYBG plc Bank of Scotland plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Natwest Holdings Virgin money plc and FIL Holdings UK Limited.
Limited, National Westminster Bank plc and Maven Income & Growth VCT4 plc.
Pierre Lefvre Selina Sagayam A R Re R 9 12 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 3 September 2015 Appointed: 14 August 2017 Pierre serves as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of the Selina is the Head of UK Transactional Practice Development Groups subsidiary Advantage Insurance Company Limited, of international law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher.
She is an where he is also Chair of the Risk and Reserving Committees English qualified corporate finance lawyer who joined the and a member of the Audit Committee.
He has extensive firms London office as a partner in 2007 and chairs its Talent international experience in the insurance industry and has and Community Affairs Committees.
Her appointment to the previously held Chairman and Chief Executive roles Companys Board is in a personal capacity and unconnected at Groupama and Axa and is currently a member of the to her position with Gibson Dunn.
Selina serves as a NonSupervisory Board of Vivat NV Netherlands and a Director Executive Director on the Board of the Companys FCA of ABBH Belgium.
regulated subsidiary entity, Hastings Insurance Services Limited.
Selina also sits on the Advisory Board of Diversity UK, chairs the cross industry group NetworkForKnowledge, serves as a board member of the Corporate Finance Faculty of the ICAEW and is a member of the board of trustees of Refuge.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
