12 | Chairs statement The Groups strategic goals, performance and growth are underpinned by an inclusive and supportive culture and robust governance.
Gary Hoffman Chair Strong governance and strategic leadership Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 13 Review Board Composition and UK Strong independent governance and effective strategic leadership are key to Corporate Governance Code In May 2018, I took over as Chair of the the continued success of the Group and the Code Compliance Hastings Group following Mike Faireys a number of changes to the composition retirement.
Mike guided the Company I joined Hastings in 2012 as Chief of the Board were made during the year.
through the IPO and its early years as a Executive Officer and helped lead the In June, the founder shareholders listed entity, and established a strong, Companys profitable growth towards, elected not to have a nominated effective Board to underpin the through, and beyond its IPO in 2015. member of the Board under the terms Companys future growth and Following the IPO, my senior management of their relationship agreement with the development.
On behalf of the Board team and I continued to grow and Company, and Selina Sagayam, who and our colleagues, I thank him for his develop the Group sustainably under the had originally been appointed by contribution during his time with us.
stewardship of the Board led by Mike.
the founder shareholders as their After due deliberation, and taking all Toby van der Meer, part of that senior nominated member of the Board, circumstances into account, the management team as Managing Director resigned as Non-Executive Director.
Nomination Committee recommended of the Companys UK trading subsidiary, Having recognised Selinas valuable that I take over the role of Chair.
That Hastings Insurance Services Limited contribution to the Board, and her recommendation was founded on the HISL since 2011, succeeded me as Chief independent thought and challenge, the principles of continuity and stability, Executive Officer in March 2018.
Prior to Nomination Committee recommended strong independent governance and proposing my appointment as Chair, the that she be re-appointed as an effective strategic leadership and I was Board, through Tom Colraine as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: delighted to accept the appointment.
Independent Director, met with the this appointment was confirmed by the Groups major shareholders to discuss Board at the end of June.
Due to the proposals and hear their views.
external commitments, Malcolm Le May Engagement with shareholders continued stepped down as Independent Nonprior to the AGM and my appointment Executive Director in April: I thank him was ratified by shareholders at the AGM, for his contribution.
On behalf of the receiving 81% of the total votes cast.
Board, I also welcome Libby Chambers Dialogue, led by myself and Tom Colraine, who joined us in September.
Libby is an continued with major investors on experienced senior financial services matters relating to corporate governance executive, strategist and marketing throughout the year and major leader within the UK and worldwide.
shareholders remain supportive of our approach.
The composition of the Board at the time of the IPO received some criticism in The predominance of Independent terms of its gender diversity.
I am pleased Directors on the Board has ensured that to say, that following these changes 33% the principles of the Code continue to of Board members, and the majority of be applied and adhered to and that my Independent Non-Executive Directors, non-independence upon appointment are female.
Further information on the as Chair does not compromise those changes to the composition of the Board principles, or the effective oversight and and its Committees are covered within challenge by the Board.
The annual the Corporate Governance section later Board effectiveness evaluation was on in this Report.
externally facilitated this year and the facilitator interviewed all Board Directors on a range of subjects including how the Board felt the transition had gone and whether there were any issues.
The outcome of the evaluation was positive and the Board believe that my and Tobys transition into our respective new roles has validated its decision in making these appointments.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 14 | Chairs statement continued In conjunction with Board diversity targets, it is also important to ensure that the Group itself is representative of its customer base.
Further increasing diversity and promoting inclusivity amongst our colleagues, especially at management and senior management, remains a focus for us.
The Board is committed to ensuring that there are no barriers to anyone who wishes to succeed within our Group and they can do so in an inclusive and supportive environment.
Last year we signed up to the 30% Club to demonstrate our commitment to having more females in senior leadership roles.
Our aim is for women to represent 30% of senior leaders in the Group by 2020 and we will continue to support and develop all colleagues whatever their background.
Culture I believe in a strong cultural framework and the Companys 4Cs ways of working continues to ensure we do the right thing for our colleagues, customers, company and community.
The 4Cs ensure that Directors and colleagues alike are aware of and personify our values and principles.
Our ability to deliver on our strategy, operate efficiently and effectively, and continue to generate value for our stakeholders is underpinned by the 4Cs as we continue to grow a sustainable and financially stable Group in a responsible manner.
Our culture Discover more about our 4Cs on pages 4156 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 15 During my time as Chief Executive undertake each year by enabling and Optimising shareholder Officer, I was one of many mentors at encouraging them to participate in value dividends the first Be the Change programme, an fundraising events and community The Board remains confident in the education programme that aims to raise days for local charities around Bexhill Groups long term prospects and is the aspirations of local 1314 year olds.
These worthwhile pleased to propose a final dividend of This programme has now entered its charities are chosen by the colleagues 9.0p per share.
This dividend will be paid fourth year and the support from themselves and by focusing our on 31 May 2019 to shareholders on the colleagues from all levels as mentors has support locally we all help to benefit register on 23 April 2019 with an been amazing throughout.
I am pleased the areas within which we live and ex-dividend date of 18 April 2019.
This is to say that I continue to be involved in work.
Further information on wellbeing, the Companys second dividend for the the Be the Change programme, and community programmes and other year having paid 4.5p per share in was recently appointed as Group corporate responsibility matters can November, taking the full year dividend ambassador to the programme.
be found later on in this Report.
This final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Our colleagues are important I have continued to maintain contact Annual General Meeting to be held on stakeholders in the Group and their with our colleagues since I became 23 May 2019. contribution to its overall success Chair, and I am pleased to announce cannot be understated.
We have a that, in compliance with the new Code, Gary Hoffman number of initiatives underway that I have been designated as the Groups Chair help, support and assist our colleagues Non-Executive Director responsible for 27 February 2019 be it with their career, their pay and representing colleagues views and benefits or their wellbeing.
We listen to interests to the Board.
This will further our colleagues through our YourVoice enable me to continue to interact with engagement surveys, interaction with colleagues via the Hastings Colleague the Hastings Colleague Forum, coffee Forum and hear any concerns that mornings and through colleague should be raised with the Board.
requests for small changes to enhance their working environment.
Our Challenging times Wellbeing programme has been very Particularly in the challenging economic, successful and well received by all political, and trading environment, colleagues.
This programme covers a the Board continues to support diverse range of topics and issues so management and ensure that our colleagues are healthier, happier appropriate actions are taken to and stronger, both inside and outside underpin a sustainable and profitable of the workplace.
The Groups support growth trajectory for the Group in the for colleagues also extends to the interests of all of its stakeholders.
charitable work our colleagues 13.5p 2018 Dividend per share 2017: 12.6p Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
