90 | Corporate governance Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders Role I am pleased to present the The Committee is a formal sub-Committee of the Board with its own Terms of Reference.
Its primary role is to review and set the report of the Remuneration remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, within the context of salaries and benefits paid across the Group as a Committee for the financial whole.
It also makes discretionary performance related awards to Executive Directors and senior management.
No Director year ended 31 December 2018. or manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The remuneration of the Chair is a matter for the full Board, whilst the Chair shall determine the Thomas Colraine Chair of the Remuneration Committee remuneration of the Independent Non-Executive Directors within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Committee meets at least four times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Membership Member Member since Thomas Colraine Chair September 2015 Chair since May 2018 Alison Burns July 2016 Ian Cormack April 2018 Selina Sagayam June 2018 Malcolm Le May September 2015 until April 2018 Mike Fairey September 2015 until May 2018 Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 66.
Mike Fairey and Malcolm Le May resigned as Committee members upon their resigning as Directors.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and can be viewed online at the Groups website.
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited, from time to time, to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee obtained information and advice during the period under review from the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other employees as required.
As permitted by its Terms of Reference, the Committee has engaged the advice and support of Deloitte LLP as independent remuneration consultants, at the expense of the Company.
The Committee met five times during the year to assess performance and consider developments in the market along with reviewing external benchmark data.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted at the end of the year, the Remuneration Committee was subject to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how the Committee discharged its responsibilities as well as the performance of its members: no significant issues were identified but a number of enhancements to Committee activities were agreed.
The activity of the Committee is detailed overleaf and further explanation of these activities is provided in my annual Committee Chair statement on page 92.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 91 Meetings The following matters were considered by the Committee: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Remuneration Performance review of the CEO, CFO and senior executives in context of bonus plan performance targets and overall colleague bonus pool policy and Approved changes to remuneration of certain senior executives in context of appointments and role changes practice endorsed by the Nomination Committee Reviewed the vesting outcome for the 2016 LTIP Reviewed performance measure projections for the 2017 LTIP Reviewed proposed performance measures for the 2018 LTIP and approved the award Considered market and other benchmark data for Executive Director remuneration and that of other senior executives as well as the Board Chair Considered the appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy and made adjustments in line with the long term strategy of the Company Consulted with major shareholders on the new Remuneration Policy and considered their feedback in finalising the Policy Designed a new policy for post-employment shareholding requirements Reviewed remuneration arrangements in-place across the wider workforce, including salary bands, benefits and bonus design Reviewed draft mandatory annual gender pay report for the Group Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 Narrative reporting Reviewed investor engagement proposals for remuneration reporting for 2018 Reviewed voting guidelines of institutional shareholder proxy agencies Remuneration governance Received updates from Deloitte LLP on current developments for executive remuneration and practice Reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code relating to executive remuneration and the Governments new remuneration reporting regulations developments Reviewed shareholder and proxy agency guidance on the new UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further enhance Committee activities other matters Remuneration Report and Policy Priorities for 2019 The Directors Remuneration Report Report and new Remuneration Policy Policy follow this Committee report.
In the coming year, the Remuneration Committee will focus on: The Policy is being placed before shareholders for approval at in relation to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial the AGM in May 2019 and the Report is being placed before Officer and senior executive management within the Groups shareholders for an advisory vote.
trading entities: The Committee is conscious of the importance of remuneration assessment of Group performance against 2019 targets strategy and practice and the considerable attention it is and approval of bonus awards for 2019: approval of bonus performance measures and targets attracting from institutional shareholders, governments and for 2020: other stakeholders.
This was particularly relevant in 2018 with review of feedback from shareholders in 2019 in relation the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and to remuneration and the Policy: the Governments new remuneration reporting regulations.
development of market practice in relation to the The Committee will continue to follow developments and, remuneration elements of the new UK Corporate where appropriate, recommendations from evolving market Governance Code: practice and, as permitted under its Terms of Reference, to assessment of the ongoing appropriateness of remuneration ensure remuneration policy remains in the best interests of arrangements and remuneration trends and market practice: the Company.
recommendation for approval by the Board of awards and For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee performance conditions under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan for 2019: and Thomas Colraine analysis of performance conditions under the Companys Chair of the Remuneration Committee Long Term Incentive Plan at the year end.
27 February 2019 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
