62 | Corporate governance Chair Q&A Q W e have made great strides You became the Chair of the Board in May 2018 in ensuring that the Board after stepping down as Chief Executive Officer in March.
How have you managed the transition is representative of its in roles?
colleagues and customer base A in terms of gender diversity.
I arrived at Hastings as Chief Executive Officer in 2012 and led the Group through to its IPO in 2015 and the subsequent two years.
I felt that I had achieved what I had set out to do as Gary Hoffman Chair Chief Executive Officer but still believed that I had something else to offer Hastings.
Toby and I obviously know each other very well from our previous roles.
Toby has extensive experience in direct financial services and having successfully led the Group UKs Retail trading activities since joining the business in 2012, his promotion to Chief Executive Officer was well deserved.
My transition to the role of Chair was smooth, knowing I had left leadership of a strong and stable executive management team in Tobys very safe hands.
I have extensive experience of chairing various boards across a number of industries, and whilst there was a short period of adjustment as I stepped back from day to day involvement in the business, chairing a company that I have known and led for over six years means a lot to me personally.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 63 Q Q The first externally facilitated Board evaluation The new UK Corporate Governance Code became took place in 2018.
How did the process differ from effective in January this year.
Do you foresee any the previous, internal, evaluations?
areas where Hastings may need to explain as opposed to comply?
A A This year was the third year for the Company as a listed entity.
In accordance with the Code the evaluation of the Board and The Board was fully briefed on the provisions of the new Code its Committees was undertaken by an external facilitator, in as soon as it was published and an action plan was agreed to this instance, Grant Thornton.
The evaluation was undertaken ensure compliance with the new principles and provisions early using questionnaires for the Board and each of its Committees.
Other than in relation to me not being independent The role of Company Secretariat was also subject to review.
The upon appointment as Chair, which has been fully explained, the questionnaires were then followed up with individual interviews Board did not foresee any issues with compliance.
I am pleased with each director, with the exception of Libby who joined the to report that the action plan has been completed and the Board in September.
Interviews were also undertaken with the Company complies with all provisions and principles of the new lead partners from the external and internal auditor and the Code, except in relation to this one area.
Company Secretary to provide a balanced view on Board interaction and engagement.
The results were presented to Gary Hoffman the Board by Grant Thornton at the Board meeting in January Chair 2019 and whilst results were largely positive, action plans for 27 February 2019 various enhancements have been agreed by the Board and each of its Committees.
Q The diversity of the Board has continued to improve since initial listing in 2015.
What is the Boards policy on diversity and inclusion for the Board and the Group as a whole?
A Hastings, along with a number of other companies, was criticised at the time of its IPO in 2015 for the predominance of male directors on its Board.
Since then we have made great strides in ensuring that the Board is representative of its colleague and customer base in terms of gender diversity with four female directors and have met the UK governments target with at least 33% female Board members.
Our work does not end there and we are also working hard to ensure that not only is our Board representative of our customer base but also our colleagues, especially females in management and senior management roles.
We will look to develop a high quality, diverse succession pool especially for future Board members.
The Groups policy on diversity and inclusion remains that we will seek to appoint the best candidate for the role based on their skills, knowledge and experience.
As I mentioned in my Chairs Statement, we continue to strive to ensure that all candidates are offered every chance of success irrespective of their background or beliefs.
We continue to raise awareness of diversity and inclusivity amongst our colleagues to ensure everyone has the opportunity to succeed and prosper at Hastings.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
