04 THE GLOBAL JOBS MARKET Hays is at the centre of people building their careers, and companies finding the talent to grow and develop.
In 2018, globally we helped over 320,000 people find their next Permanent job or Temp assignment, and worked with over 30,000 clients to find the skilled talent they need to grow.
This is the core of our business.
How we do this is evolving.
People are choosing to work in new ways, and are using new technologies to access the job market.
We are therefore embracing and developing technology to match candidates with clients roles faster than previously possible.
For example, our Find and Engage model and Hays Approachability Index sit at the heart of our process see page 12.
What remains constant is the art of placing the right person in the right job, and our belief in how megatrends are shaping tomorrows employment market and career styles.
In FY18 we Australia & NewZealand UK & Ireland helped over Overall business confidence levels remain high Sentiment remains uncertain, but broadly stable in Australia as the economy continues to benefit Limited client appetite for major investment projects 320,000 from public and private sector investment Political situation remains uncertain pending Broad-based growth across sectors and states people find their next clarification of future trading with the EU Permanent job or Private sector growing faster than Public sector The UK has seen reduced levels of large capital Temp assignment The macroeconomic picture in Australia remained investment projects, particularly in the private sector.
strong as the year progressed.
This was supported This has restricted the parts of our markets exposed We helped over by ongoing private sector investment, and continued to new growth projects.
On the plus side, candidate State and Federal government spending on large confidence remains solid and employers continue 30,000 public infrastructure projects.
clients find the skilled Consumer confidence remained strong and stable, Although sterling remained stable in FY18, its devaluation despite concerns over an overheated residential post the Brexit vote continues to translate into higher talent they need property market, along with moderate wage inflation inflation.
Coupled with low levels of wage growth, and rising cost of living.
Resource-driven parts of the this has impacted consumer spending.
Ongoing UK political instability adds uncertainty to the Find out more on page 29 Brexit negotiation process with the European Union.
Find out more on page 31 Germany Rest of World Economic conditions remained supportive Strong conditions across virtually all of our 28 markets Much of our growth is from first-time client outsourcing Skill shortages prevalent across technical and to specialist recruitment agencies, such as Hays professional specialisms To date, minimal impacts from trade tariff changes Some signs of wage inflation, particularly in the USA, and parts of Asia Conditions in Germany were strong and supportive during the year.
As with the rest of Europe, sentiment Conditions across Europe excluding Germany remained has not been impacted by the UKs decision to leave strong through the year, with clients looking to invest the European Union.
Labour markets remain strong, and candidates willing to move jobs.
with skill shortages accentuating the need for greater Asia delivered excellent overall performance, with tight flexibility in skilled labour.
European Central Bank labour markets and skill shortages in most markets.
monetary policy remains accommodative, helping consumer and business confidence.
We saw excellent progress in the Americas, notably the USA and Canada.
Demand was particularly strong To date, we have not seen any material adverse impact in our Technology specialism, across both Temp and from the ongoing escalation of trade tariffs.
However, Perm contracts, and also the Construction sector.
we are watching the situation closely.
Find out more on page 32 Find out more on page 30 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 05 The global recruitment market Executive 130k search Specialist recruitment Indicative salary HAYS Contingent fee model, range of Hays FOCUS focused on highly-skilled roles placements in structural growth markets Generalist blue 20k collar staffing Net fee pool Hays has greater scale advantages, particularly in Contract type The competitive environment some of the more technical recruitment markets such We are leading global recruiting experts, focusing as Construction & Property, and in structural-growth on the segment of the recruitment market referred markets like Germany.
to as white collar skilled or specialist recruitment.
2018 We also identify other competitors across each of our The salary of the candidates we place ranges from local markets.
These include larger generalist recruiters circa 20,000 to 130,000 p. a. like Adecco, Randstad and Manpower, who have some We operate across 20 different areas of specialism, operations in the specialist recruitment space, but are withover 60% of our net fees in white collar Technical predominantly focused on the lower-salary blue collar Temporary 58% disciplines such as IT, Life Sciences, Engineering and Permanent 42% segment of the market.
There are also sector or regionConstruction & Property.
The balance comprises specific businesses such as KForce in the US, or Professions such as Accountancy & Finance, Legal and HR.
Market exposure Our business is balanced between Temp and Perm.
We have deliberately built a balanced business exposed Flexible working, which encompasses our Temp and to mature, cyclical markets and structurally emerging Contracting markets, represented 58% of net fees in markets.
In FY18, 54% of our net fees were generated FY18, with Perm delivering 42%.
in immature markets, with 46% in more mature markets.
2018 This compares to 17% and 83% respectively 10 years ago.
The competitive landscape across most of our markets is characterised by a large number of companies, often Immature markets face significant structural growth very small and focused on local, niche markets.
There opportunities, and are less impacted by the economic are also a few large globalplayers.
We believe our balanced exposure to Temporary, Immature 54% Contractor and Permanent recruitment, combined with Mature 46% Despite the fragmented nature of our industry, in the genuine scale across 20 specialist areas in 33 countries, majority of markets, the main competition we face is from is unique in the specialist recruitment space.
This adds in-house recruiting teams within corporate HR functions.
Net fees relative resilience to our business through the cycle, Yet, our relationship with in-house HR teams is often and is a genuine differentiator in our industry.
symbiotic, as they are frequently our largest clients.
In FY18 58% of our fees came from the Temp and We estimate that in more mature markets like the UK Contracting market, weighted towards three countries or the US, around 80% of addressable skilled jobs are 2018 where Hays is market-leader: Germany, Australia and filled via recruitment agencies.
In less mature markets the UK.
In most other countries in the Group we have like Germany and parts of Asia, our analysis suggests historically been predominantly Perm-focused.
this figure is only around 25%.
First-time outsourcing of professional recruitment is therefore a key structural Where market conditions and local legislation have Technical 62% growth driver in many of our markets.
allowed, we have successfully been pursuing a strategy Professional 38% to build meaningful Temp and Contractor businesses.
The main UK-listed specialist recruitment businesses Temp now represents one-third of net fees outside we identify are PageGroup, Robert Walters and our three core markets.
Each has different exposures and business mix, but do have a presence in many of the markets in which we operate.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
