Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I can assure you that Hays will never be complacent in this Dear Shareholder space and we always work to be as best-prepared as we I am pleased to present to you the Audit Committee can in the fast moving environment of cyber security.
report prepared in accordance with the 2016 edition of the Code.
"This is my last year of chairing the Audit You will find on the following pages further detail on the Committee as I will be stepping down from the Board Committees activities during the year under review, which at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in include discharging its financial reporting, internal control November 2018. and risk management responsibilities, supporting the Board in ensuring the Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, Before I discuss the Committees activities, I would balanced and understandable, and consideration of, like to take a moment to pay my respects to Alan amongst other matters, audit effectiveness both internal "" We continue Thomson, following his sad passing in July of this year."
and external, non-audit services policy and the Groups to operate in a Alan recruited me to the Board in the year following whistleblowing policy and procedures.
"I hope this will world threatened his own appointment: he was immensely supportive provide shareholders with the necessary information for with cyber to me throughout my tenure and his guidance was them to assess the Companys performance, business security risk. """
Victoria Jarman The Audit Committee supervises the Companys financial Chairman of the Victoria Jarman Audit Committee reporting process on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Audit Committee Chairman The Committee also reviewed reports of the internal 29 August 2018 audit function to ensure adequacy of our systems of internal control and risk management.
The Committee also supported the directors in their assessment of the long-term viability of the Company for the purposes of the Code which is set out in the strategic report on page 37.
We continue to operate in a world under threat from cyber security risk, which is a significant threat to the way we operate our day-to-day business and, therefore, how we deliver services to our clients.
As a consequence of this, the Audit Committee receives regular and detailed reports on our preparedness for when, not if, we face an attack.
I was particularly heartened by the experience of the cyber-simulation data breach exercise conducted during the year, which stress-tested people and systems within the business.
I look forward to the learnings being rolled out to further enhance our resilience.
Role of the Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys Monitor the relationship with the Companys external website haysplc.
Auditor, including consideration of fees, audit scope and terms of engagement: The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and the Auditors independence: including annual and half-year reports, interim management On engagement of the external Auditor, review the policy for statements, and other formal announcements relating to its the provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance: financial performance, and reviewing and reporting to the Monitor and review the Companys internal control and risk Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgments: management systems: Where requested by the Board, review the content of the Annual Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Report and advise the Board whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, Audit function: and balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, ethical and other issues, business model and strategy: including that the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor: Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 64 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Membership and meetings The Committee is appointed by the Board from its independent to events in the financial calendar of the Company.
met four times during the financial year and attendance by members at Committee meetings, can be seen on page 57.
Biographies of the Committees current members are set out on pages 52 and 53.
The Committee commissions reports, either from external advisers, the Head of Internal Audit or Group management, as required, to The Chairman of the Committee, Victoria Jarman, is a Chartered enable it to discharge its duties.
The Group Finance Director attends Accountant and its financial expert, who also chaired the Audit its meetings, as do the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Committee of Equiniti Group plc.
All Committee members are Audit, both of whom have the opportunity to meet privately with financially literate.
the Committee Chairman, in the absence of Group management.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive are also invited The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of to, and regularly attend, Committee meetings.
scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda of which is linked Main Committee activities during the financial year Approved the annual Committee programme Reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Reviewed financial results for publication Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements Considered the external audit plan and reviewed the results of the audit Carried out a review of the Committees effectiveness and reviewed progress on matters arising from previous assessments Approved the internal audit plan and reviewed its findings Considered the Code requirements concerning fair, balanced Reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external and understandable reporting auditor Considered the Companys long-term viability Reviewed the risk management and controls framework and its effectiveness, together with the Groups principal risks Recommended the Audit Committee Report for approval by the Board Considered all aspects of IT operations and risks Held discussions with the external Auditor and the Head Considered the growing threat of cyber-related attacks of Internal Audit without management being present and associated responses across the business Reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external Auditor Fair, balanced and understandable In addition to its work described here, the Committee External audit review: has reviewed the financial and narrative disclosures Clear guidance and instruction of the requirement in this years Annual Report.
It has advised the Board provided to contributors: that, in its view, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Written confirmation that information provided has information necessary for shareholders to assess the been done so on a fair and balanced basis: Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Additional scrutiny by senior management: and In making its recommendation to the Board, the Additional reviews by the Committee Chairman of the Committees robust governance approach included: draft Annual Report in advance of the final sign-off in Comprehensive Group and subsidiary accounts process, the context of the revised Code provision.
with written confirmations provided by the regional senior management teams on the health of the financial Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on the control environment: recommendation oftheCommittee.
Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken at different levels of the Group and by the senior management team that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Significant issues considered during the year External Auditor In reviewing both the half and full-year financial Both the Committee and the Board keep the external statements, the following issues of significance were Auditors independence and objectivity under close considered by the Committee and addressed as scrutiny, particularly with regard to its reporting to described.
These matters are described in more detail shareholders.
PwC were appointed external Auditor in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Professional rules require that the Companys audit partner at PwC be rotated Debtor and accrued income recoverability every five years.
The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued income and the level of provisions for bad debt are considered to be As previously reported, following a detailed tender areas of significant judgment due to the pervasive nature process,  LLP was first of these balances to the financial statements and the appointed as the Companys external auditor in 2016. importance of cash collection in the working capital While the Company has no current retendering plans, management of the business.
The Committee considered in accordance with The Statutory Audit Services for the level and ageing of debtors and accrued income, Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use together with the appropriateness of provisioning, by of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee reviewing previous experience of bad debt exposure Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order the Company and the consistency of judgments made year-on-year.
will be required to put the external audit contract out to The Committee was satisfied that the level of provision tender by 2026.
Accordingly, the Company confirms that and the carrying value of debtors and accrued income it has complied with the provisions of the CMA Order for is appropriate.
Revenue recognition Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Services Policy The main areas of judgment in revenue recognition The Committee believes that the issue of non-audit relate to i cut-off as we recognise permanent placement services to Hays is closely related to external Auditor income on the day a candidate starts work, and independence and objectivity.
The Committee recognises temporary placement income over the duration of that the independence of the external Auditor may the placement: and ii the recognition of temporary reasonably be expected to be compromised if they also contractual arrangements where we act as principal act as the Companys consultants and advisers.
Having on a gross basis rather than net basis.
The Committee said that, the Committee accepts that certain work of discussed and reviewed these areas with both a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external management and PwC and remains satisfied that Group Auditor.
To keep a check on this, the Committee has accounting policies with regard to revenue recognition adopted a policy to ensure that the provision of any have been adhered to and that judgments made non-audit services by its external Auditor does not remain appropriate.
impair its independence or objectivity.
The key features of the non-audit services policy are Goodwill as follows: The Committee assessed the carrying value of goodwill by reviewing a report by management which set out the The provision of non-audit services provided by the values attributable across the cash-generating units Companys external Auditor be limited to a value of CGU, compiled using projected cash flows based on 70% of the average audit fees over a three-year period: assumptions related to discount rates and future Any non-audit project work which could impair the growth rates.
The Committee also considered the work objectivity or independence of the external Auditor undertaken by PwC and managements sensitivity analysis may not be awarded to the external Auditor: on key assumptions.
After discussion, the Committee was Delegated authority by the Committee for the satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate.
approval of non-audit services by the external Pension accounting Auditor is as follows: Pension accounting is complex and contains areas of Value of services per significant judgment, most notably those in respect of Authoriser non-audit project the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the Group Financial Controller Up to 25,000 net surplus disclosed in note 22.
The Committee reviewed Group Finance Director Up to 100,000 the pension items by discussing a report prepared by Audit Committee Above 100,000 management based on work performed by the Companys actuary which set the key assumptions used in the The above authority levels were reviewed by the calculation of the surplus and related income statement Committee during the year, as a result of which the items.
The Committee also considered the work authority of the Group Finance Director reduced performed by PwC in testing the assumptions and was from 150,000: and satisfied that the assumptions used and the disclosures The three-year average audit fee was 1.0 million.
in the financial statements are appropriate.
Accordingly, the maximum value of non-audit services that PwC could have been engaged by Hays to provide during the financial year 2018 was 0.7 million.
The total fee for non-audit services provided by PwC during the 2018 financial year was 0.44 million 2017: 0.6 million, excluding the FY18 half-year review fee of Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 66 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED 0.1 million 2017: 0.1 million.
The main component Internal Audit of the non-audit services was a change management The Committee oversees and monitors the work of the programme in Germany which was underway prior to Internal Audit function, which reviews key controls and the external audit tender, where PwC provided project processes throughout the Group on a rolling basis, management and communication support for the including resources, scope and effectiveness of project.
PwCs involvement in the project ceased in the function.
The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the The Company did not pay any non-audit fees to PwC Committee and meets regularly with both the Committee on a contingent basis.
A summary of the fees paid to the and its Chairman, without the presence of management, external Auditor is set out in note 6 to the Consolidated to consider the work of Internal Audit.
The Committee approved the programme of work for Having reviewed Hays non-audit services policy this the Internal Audit function in respect of the 2018 financial year, including the Authority level of the Group Finance year, which was focused on addressing both financial Director, the Committee is satisfied that adequate and overall risk management objectives across the Group.
procedures are in place to safeguard the external During the year, 29 Internal Audit reviews were Auditors objectivity and independence.
undertaken, with the findings reported to both the Effectiveness of the external Auditor Management Board and the Committee, with The annual effectiveness review in respect of financial recommendations tracked and progress subsequently year 2017 was conducted during the year under the reported back to the Committee.
guidance of the Committee Chairman, on behalf of the No material weaknesses were identified as a result of Committee, and covered amongst other things a review of risk management and internal control reviews undertaken the audit partners, audit resource, planning and execution, by Internal Audit during the reporting period.
Committee support and communications, and PwCs independence and objectivity.
Overall feedback was The Committee believes that the Groups enterprise risk positive with resulting improvements, which were largely management framework needs to continue to evolve in country-specific, discussed and implemented.
Based accordance with the growth of the Hays business around on these reviews, the Committee was satisfied with the the world.
Throughout the financial year the Internal performance of PwC in the fulfilment of its obligations Audit team has continued to enhance the enterprise as external Auditor and of the effectiveness of the risk management framework and work with the Group audit process in FY17.
Consequently, the Committee Finance Director and the operating companies across has recommended to the Board that they be reappointed the globe to further embed the framework methodology as external Auditor at the AGM in November 2018. at a local level.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprising senior operators Risk management and internal control from each region, together with representation from The Board is responsible for the adequacy and effectiveness IT and finance, assists in the management of risk in of the Groups internal control system and risk management the Group.
In addition, a Chief Risk Officer has been framework, which in order to fulfil its responsibilities the appointed who will further strengthen the Groups Board has delegated authority to the Committee.
In order to establish an assessment from both a financial Raising concerns at work and operational control perspective, the Committee looks The whistleblowing procedure in place across the Group to the work of the Internal Audit function, specifically ensures that employees are able to raise any concerns to consider whether significant process and control about any possible improprieties in business practices, weaknesses are identified, improved and monitored and or other matters, in confidence: this is managed and that risks have been identified, evaluated and managed.
reported through an independent external third party.
The Committee considered the Groups risk assessment Reports made in good faith are done so without fear process, which included coverage across the regions, of recrimination, and calls cannot be traced and are not businesses and functions within the Group, reviewing recorded.
Reports can be made in over 100 languages.
the effectiveness of the risk methodology employed, The disclosures under this arrangement are investigated the risk mitigation measures implemented and future promptly by the Company Secretary, with the support of risk management and monitoring.
Internal Audit, and escalated to the Management Board and the Committee as appropriate, with follow-up action being taken as soon as practicable thereafter.
The Committee, as part of its overall review of the Groups system of internal control, reviewed the procedures in place during the reporting period and is satisfied that they are appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 Anti-bribery and corruption Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy with specific reference to the UK Bribery Act 2010 is issued to all employees.
Overall responsibility for, and oversight of, the Policy lies with the plc Board.
Training is provided to all employees annually in local languages and ongoing support is provided when and where necessary.
In addition, risk assessments are carried out on an ad hoc basis, for example when new countries are under consideration whether they are considered to be low or high risk or prior to entry into new public sector markets.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Policy during the year and concluded that it was sufficient for managing the anti-bribery and corruption risks faced by the Group.
Audit Committee effectiveness The Committee considered its effectiveness in discharging its duties during the year.
The Committee looked at the work it had carried out during the year and considered that its performance during the year was effective when measured against its terms of reference and general audit committee best practice.
Details of the main activities of the Committee and its role and responsibilities have been detailed earlier in this Report.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at this years AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Committee.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
