Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Investor meetings held in FY18 Continental United Kingdom Europe North America Total Executive Management 68 10 35 113 Investor Relations team 99 52 40 191 Other senior management 6 6 0 12 The Companys investor relations programme is Conflicts of interest supported by a dedicated Investor Relations team which Procedures are in place for the disclosure by directors acts as the primary point of contact with the investor of any interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, community and is responsible for managing ongoing with the Companys interests and for the appropriate relations with investors and shareholders.
The Board authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises, in receives regular reports from the Investor Relations accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Feedback from meetings held between executive In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential management, or the Investor Relations team, and conflict of interest only those directors that have no institutional shareholders is also reported to the Board.
interest in the matter under consideration will be able to As a part of a comprehensive investor relations take the relevant decision: in taking such a decision the programme, formal meetings are scheduled with investors directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, and analysts to discuss the Groups halfand full-year will be most likely to promote the success of the Company results.
In the intervening periods, Hays continues its and may impose such limits or conditions as they think fit.
dialogue with the investor community by meeting key The Board has reviewed the procedures in place and investor representatives, holding investor roadshows considers that they continue to operate effectively.
Meetings with debt There were no actual or potential conflicts of interest providers, principally the Companys banks, also take which were required to be authorised by the Board place on a regular basis.
during the year under review or to the date of this report.
During the year, the executive directors and senior Engagement with investors management met with approximately 100 individual Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the institutions around the world, interacting with Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
In addition, They ensure that there is effective communication approximately 30 institutions attended our Investor Day, with shareholders on matters such as governance, which was held in London in November 2017. sustainability and strategy, and are responsible for Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys ensuring that the Board understands the views of website at haysplc.
If you would like to know major shareholders on such matters.
more about our relations with shareholders please contact ir@hays.
Geographical breakdown of investors met Annual General Meeting The Board uses the Companys AGM to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM, at which the Board members are present.
The Board views the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with its smaller, private shareholders.
A summary presentation of results is given United Kingdom 52% by the Chief Executive before the formal business of the Continental Europe 27% meeting is conducted.
All shareholders present can North America 21% question the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Committees and the rest of the Board both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, reflecting the number of voting rights exercisable by each member, is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
As soon as practicable following the conclusion of the AGM, the proxy votes cast, including details of votes withheld, are announced to the London Stock Exchange via the Regulatory News Service and published on our website.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
