60 EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT future that dont even exist today and how the world Dear Shareholder of work is becoming more and more disintermediated.
As noted in my introduction to the Corporate Governance As a recruitment organisation this is all very interesting section of this Annual Report, I have only served in the and relevant, but it also influences the profile of role of Nomination Committee Chairman since July 2018, individuals one needs at the top of, and near the top of, following the untimely passing of Alan Thomson.
However, an organisation to ensure it remains relevant and ahead as a member of this Committee for the majority of the of the curve.
These factors have all been feeding into the period under review, I can provide an overview of the deliberations of the Nomination Committee and will work we have undertaken.
"continue to do so, notwithstanding the myriad of other Succession planning remains a key area of focus for factors that also have to be taken into account in making "" Succession the Committee across the executive and non-executive the best appointments for the continued success of planning remains spectrum."
This was further supported by this years the Company.
a key area of Board and Committee evaluation review.
"Andrew Martin focus across the The landscape in which we find ourselves operating Nomination Committee Chairman executive and continues to evolve and change, and we hear with ever- 29 August 2018 non-executive increasing frequency of the percentage of jobs in the spectrum. """
Andrew Martin Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Committee is summarised below and Consider succession planning for directors and detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which other senior executives: is available on the Companys website haysplc.
com Identify and nominate for the approval of the under Corporate Governance.
Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies: and The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Keep under review the time commitment expected Review the structure, size and composition from the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
including skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of executive and non-executive directors of the Board and its Committees and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: Membership and meetings The Committee is appointed by the Board.
It is chaired The Committee meets as required and did so on two by the Chairman of the Board and comprises the nonoccasions during the year and attendance by members executive directors, all of whom are independent, save can be seen on page 57.
Other regular attendees at for the Chairman who was independent on Committee meetings include the Company Secretary appointment.
The names and qualifications of the and, on invitation, the Chief Executive and Group Committees current members are set out in the Finance Director.
directors biographies on pages 52 and 53.
Main Committee activities during the financial year Considered Board succession plans Considered and recommended the election and re-election of each director, as appropriate, Reviewed the composition of the Board at the AGM and its Committees Reviewed the Committees terms of reference Considered, and recommended to the Board, the appointment of two non-executive directors Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 61 The Board has not set any specific aspirations in Non-executive director respect of gender diversity at Board level and supports appointment process fully the Code principles in respect of diversity.
However, The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent the Board is of the view that diversity is less about quotas, procedure for the appointment of new directors and and recognises the benefits of diversity, of which gender senior executives with due regard to diversity.
Prior to is one aspect, and it will continue to ensure that this making an appointment, the Committee will evaluate the is taken into account when considering any particular balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on appointment, whilst ensuring appointments are made the Board and, in light of this evaluation, will prepare a on merit and ability to enhance the performance of description of the role and capabilities required, with a the business.
view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee uses Succession planning open advertising or the services of external advisers A key task of the Committee is to keep under review the to facilitate the search and considers candidates on Companys succession plans for members of the Board merit and against objective criteria and ensuring that over the short, medium and longer term, to ensure the appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, Board remains appropriately balanced between new in light of other significant commitments, and no conflicts and innovative thinking and longer-term stability.
Board appointment criteria are considered automatically A long-list of potential candidates would be drawn up, as part of the Committees approach on succession from which an appropriate number would be shortlisted planning.
The Committee believes that limited tenure for interview based upon their fulfilment of the and the subsequent enforced retirement of directors is appointment criteria.
The Committee would then not always appropriate for sound business leadership.
recommend to the Board the appointment of the Accordingly, matters of director tenure are viewed on preferred candidate or candidates, if there is more than a case-by-case basis.
one considered suitable for subsequent appointment.
The Board believes that refreshment of the Board The Zygos Partnership were utilised in respect of Andrew should take into account the need to consider diversity Martin and Susan Murrays appointments which occurred in all forms.
in the year under review, however their input was concluded prior to the year end.
Tenure of non-executive directors Appointments to the Board are made for initial terms In the year ahead, the Committee will continue to assess not exceeding three years and are ordinarily limited the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced to three such terms in office.
Each director stands and will consider diversity including, but not limited to, for re-election annually.
gender and experience and geographic representation and continue to use independent consultants as Director performance appropriate to ensure a broad search for suitable Having reviewed the independence and contribution candidates.
Specifically, the Board is seeking to recruit of directors, the Committee confirms that the a replacement for Victoria Jarman, who steps down performance of each of the directors standing for at the 2018 AGM, and also an additional non-executive re-election at the 2018 AGM continues to be effective director to restore its number following the passing of and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including Alan Thomson in July 2018. independence of judgment, commitment of time for The Committee considered the appointment of Andrew Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Martin to the role of Chairman subsequent to the end Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the of the year under review and recommended him for Board that all current directors of the Company, with the appointment by the Board, which was duly undertaken exception of Victoria Jarman, be proposed for re-election on a permanent basis in August 2018.
An external search at the forthcoming AGM.
consultancy was not engaged, nor external advertising undertaken, for the role of Chairman, as Andrews suitability as successor to the role of Chairman had been fully considered as part of his recruitment in 2017.
Board composition is routinely reviewed to ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Hays Board remains appropriate to its business.
Hays Group policy is to hire the best candidates for all positions at all levels throughout the business, irrespective of gender, including candidates at Board level.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 62 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Board induction and development Board evaluation On appointment, each director takes part in a tailored and During the 2018 financial year the Board assessed comprehensive induction programme which is designed its own effectiveness through an internal Board to give him or her a deep understanding of the Companys evaluation process.
The 2018 evaluation was facilitated business, governance and stakeholders.
Directors completed an evaluation questionnaire.
Elements of the programme include: Senior management briefings to provide a The questionnaire covered a broad base of subject matter business overview, current trading conditions in order to assess effectiveness, such as the conduct of and strategic commercial issues: Board meetings and their administration: risk: strategy: culture: stakeholder interests and corporate purpose: Meetings with the Companys key advisers Board composition and member performance: and and major shareholders, where necessary: the broader challenges faced by the Board and how those are managed.
Committee effectiveness was also Business site visits across regions: assessed separately.
A legal and regulatory briefing on the duties Results were presented to the Board and minor areas of directors of listed companies: for improved operation identified and agreed: these Details of the Group corporate structure, Board included longer-term succession planning and issues and Committee structures and arrangements, around cyber awareness and planning.
There was general and key policies and procedures: and agreement that, overall, the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively throughout the period The latest statutory financial reports and and that its operation, and that of the Committees, had management accounts.
improved over the course of the year.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company In addition to the Board and Committee evaluation, Secretary, ensures that directors are provided with the Chairman evaluated the individual performance and updates on changes in the legal and regulatory effectiveness of each director.
The Senior Independent environment in which the Company operates.
These are Director led a separate appraisal of the Chairmans incorporated into the annual agenda of the Boards performance with his fellow non-executive directors, activities along with wider business and industry updates: which took into consideration both the executive and the Chairman also keeps under review the individual non-executive directors views.
Good progress against training needs of Board members.
The Companys the action points identified in the 2017 Board evaluation principal external advisers provide updates to the Board, has been made during the year.
at least annually, on the latest developments in their respective fields, and relevant update sessions are An external Board evaluation will be undertaken in 2019. included in the Boards strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary presents corporate governance reports to the Board as appropriate, together with any relevant technical directives issued by the Companys auditor.
In this way, each director keeps their skills and knowledge current so they remain competent in fulfilling their role both on the Board and on any Committee of which they are a member.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
