06 INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS Megatrend 1 MORE AND VARIED WAYS OF BUILDING A CAREER Our aim is therefore to build further scale to offer FY18 Temp & For many skilled candidates, the job for life a truly globally integrated service, capitalising on Contracting mentality is ending.
There is an increasing appetite increased candidate mobility and rising non-Perm roles placed to embrace flexible, project styles of working.
This will allow us to Candidates are seeking interesting, and often leverage cross-border client relationships.
244,000 highly paid, Temp and Contractor roles, as they build portfolio careers.
In addition to gaining Rest of World net fees new experience and improving their marketability, Temp and Contracting gives candidates Permanent the flexibility to take prolonged vacations, or voluntary career breaks.
Non-Perm markets are becoming an increasingly 68% important part of many of our businesses.
78% The rise of digital economies is driving the creation of new job types in niche areas.
It is also enabling greater mobility of experienced workers, who can provide their skills as independent Contractors on a more flexible basis.
Temporary & This, in combination with less restrictive legislation Contracting in many countries, is why we believe Contracting is 32% 22% a key structural growth market and has become one of our fastest-growing sources of net fees.
2011 Today What this means for us We have made further strategic progress rolling out our market-leading Contracting business, both into newer specialisms in Germany, and to other markets where we believe the model will be successful.
This is particularly so in our RoW division, which includes markets like Canada, Benelux, France and Japan.
When coupled with our established IT Contracting business in the USA, we are at the forefront of this evolving market trend.
We now have more than 70,000 Temps and Contractors on assignment around the world.
Despite this, the overwhelming majority of skilled roles in our markets are in traditional Perm positions.
Although they are growing, non-Perm penetration rates in white collar roles remain in the single digits.
However, given strong appeal to both employers and white collar candidates, we believe this part of the specialist recruitment market is seeing structural changes.
We think high-skilled Temp and Contracting will become an increasingly important element of modern workforces.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 07 The projects Hays offered have been an excellent match for my profile, experience and lifestyle.
After 10 years of working together, our relationship is based on trust, and a knowledge that Hays can give me access to an unrivalled pool of flexible senior finance project work.
If a project needs to be extended, or if I choose to take some extended leave out of the marketplace, my consultant FY18 Temp & has handled this in a highly professional manner.
I am very enthusiastic Contracting about working with Hays in the future on interesting, challenging and roles placed financially rewarding projects.
244,000 We have worked with Michael since 2008, placing him in over Contracting in senior finance: ten different Contractor roles across a mix of multinational A candidates journey corporations and German Mittelstand companies.
In 2018, Accounting & Senior Finance was one of the In opting to pursue a portfolio career, Michael has gained fastest-growing specialisms in our market-leading a variety of new skills and experience, making him a more German business, growing net fees 49%.
It also allows Michael to work flexibly and take substantial holidays between roles, creating time to pursue Part of our success in Germany has been the roll-out of our his hobby of Alaska long-trail dog sled racing during winters.
IT Contracting model into other specialisms, capitalising on the emerging trend for flexible project-based work in these markets.
Towards the end of each project, we meet Michael to discuss his future plans, ambitions and availability.
We then use our Michael Rupe is a Senior Finance Manager, with professional unrivalled flow of project work to match his skills with suitable specialisms in annual financial statement preparation, assignments, helping him structure the next leg of his career.
reporting system changes and International Accounting Standard compliance.
Having worked in permanent roles in several companies, my choice to become a high-skilled Flex worker was a strategic one.
The rewards, both financially and in terms of stimulating projects, have been excellent.
My relationship with Hays has been invaluable in terms of advice, administration and most importantly a flow of interesting future work.
I look forward to completing more projects with them as my career evolves.
Many corporates choose to structure IT investments by specific Contracting in IT: projects, using a significant amount of flexible, high-skilled A candidates journey labour.
Yvettes decision to use her experience to build her career as a specialist Contractor has allowed her to increase The successful integration of Veredus into Hays her earnings.
As a Contractor, you can be paid for each hour North America, with its proven flexible working model, of work.
saw growth accelerate sharply in 2018.
Information Technology net fees in the US grew by 17%, and is our Contracting allows Yvette to be compensated for her actual largest specialism in both US Perm and Contracting.
working week, not just a fixed period.
She also gains greater multi-sector experience, which ultimately increases her Yvette Urso is a Senior IT Program and Project Manager, based marketability.
She is an expert in managing complex IT projects in a variety of industries.
We have worked with Yvette since Yvette has a strong relationship with her Hays consultant 2004, placing her in six interesting and challenging long-term in Tampa, who engages as each project matures, helping Contractor roles, across a variety of industries.
Yvette find the best contract to satisfy her career aspirations.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 08 INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS CONTINUED Megatrend 2 SKILL SHORTAGES AND BUSINESSES DEMANDS FOR FLEXIBILITY Our strong relationships with highly skilled non-Perm Temp % Our clients increasingly need to add flexibility workers enables our clients to tap into scarce talent of net fees to their skilled workforce.
In doing so, they can pools of flexible workers, helping manage and shape respond to fast-changing market conditions, their white collar Temp and Contractor workforces.
58% accessing the skilled labour they need, precisely when they need it.
They can also convert We are also experts in helping clients find the best cultural fit for their organisation.
a traditionally fixed employee cost into a Technical % variable expense.
of net fees We see our non-Perm business as a repeatable and high-value source of earnings, more resilient to the cycle.
Employing skilled people on a contract or project basis 62% Our clients increasingly view Hays as the go-to experts, injects greater cost base flexibility.
Also, by adding highly helping interpret and manage the risks and obligations skilled specialisms in a particular role, the employer that are essential in managing a contingent workforce.
increases the potential for excellent execution.
This means that we are continually growing market share Accordingly, for a growing number of businesses, in places like Germany, as well as establishing new client Contract and Temporary workers make up an relationships across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
increasingly important part of their skilled workforce.
We bring the expertise of our existing Temp and What this means for us Contractor businesses, and offer our clients clarity in what is a difficult and a complex area, helping them navigate In a progressively skill-short world, our role acting intricate flexible working regulations as they evolve.
as the intermediary to source highly skilled, compliant contractors is becoming ever more important.
Our resilient model offers balance between Temporary & Permanent contracts, and between Technical & Professional specialisms Recruitment type Temporary & Contracting Permanent Respond quickly to changing market conditions Insight into candidate approachability Swap fixed employee costs for variable Efficient outsource given our fees are contingent Provide rapid access to talent Deep industry specialism Highly compliant yet highly flexible Access wider talent pools 58% 42% % of group net fees 62% 38% Technical Professional Jobs are driven by client-led investment rather Candidate-led process than a candidates decision to move Usually higher salary Industries characterised by skill shortages Scope to infill into new geographies Higher proportion of emerging and new job roles Approachability Index adds Increasing propensity towards Flex working competitive edge Specialism type Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 09 Hays is a trusted partner of Computacenter, integral to our workforce strategy.
Hays allows us to maintain a flexible, effective workforce and ultimately helps us ensure delivery to our clients, said Andy Moffitt, Group Head of Professional Services at Computacenter We depend on Hays to source local talent with market-leading skills in a range of locations.
Their knowledge of our business has made for an efficient and productive recruitment process.
We are pleased to be continuing to build our partnership and are excited about the future.
Our contract has evolved and been extended, most recently Delivering flexible workforce in July 2018, and the Computacenter relationship is one of solutions for Computacenter our longest MSP and RPO services.
It is a relationship based on delivery, honesty and an absolute commitment to Hays has worked with Computacenter since 2009, continuous improvement.
initially helping them manage their contingent labour force via a Managed Service Provision As a leading provider of IT infrastructure services, MSP contract.
In 2010, our service was expanded Computacenter is a global business with a requirement to include a Recruitment Process Outsourcing for the best talent in a number of competitive markets.
RPO element, making us the provider of all talent to Computacenter within the UK.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 10 INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS CONTINUED Megatrend 3 STRUCTURAL MARKET GROWTH AND EVOLVING CLIENT DEMANDS Over half of our business today is in the Germany net fee Most professional recruitment around the world worlds best structural-growth markets CAGR since 2003 is still done by in-house HR teams.
This is true across mature and emerging economies, although 787m Net fees 1,073m Net fees 20% both are increasingly opening up to the concept of outsourcing specialist recruitment.
Mature cyclical We continue to observe a shift, mainly among large Germany net fees markets corporates, towards centralised procurement.
Our by specialism 46% services must be tailored to these different client of Group needs, whether it is first-time outsourcing or providing 78% different specialist recruitment delivery models.
of Group What this means for us We have scale in both mature, cyclical markets and less mature, structural-growth markets.
We have been 54% building a strong presence in markets like Germany which, of Group IT 41% CAGR despite being a highly developed economy, has a low but Structural Engineering 29% rising penetration rate when it comes to the outsourcing 12% Accountancy growth 22% of recruitment services for skilled, professional roles.
of Group & Finance 14% markets Construction Even as market leader in Germany, we still see many & Property 5% 2008 2018 growth opportunities as more businesses outsource their Life Sciences 5% recruitment of skilled labour.
We estimate a significant Sales & We also offer some Recruitment Process Outsourcing amount of our growth in recent years has come from such Marketing 4% RPO services, albeit on a smaller scale than MSP.
A similar trend also exists in Other 2% In RPO, we manage all Permanent recruitment processes many of our RoW markets of Asia and parts of Europe.
Together, these MSP and RPO By capitalising on these structural trends, our growth services sit under our Hays Talent Solutions business, is not solely dependent on economic cycles.
RoW net fee and represent c. 15% of our net fees.
CAGR since 2007 We also tailor our services to meet specific company Our ability to deliver high quality MSP and RPO services needs, adapting to new business practices and to our clients is closely linked to our use of technology, 16% client requirements such as centralised procurement.
and investment in developing tools to provide first-class, We have developed hub-like delivery models that match large-scale HR services.
For example, to help clients of our clients needs for efficient recruitment processes any size track all aspects of their contingent workforce, RoW net fees at scale, in the most effective and appropriate way.
we offer technology solutions like our 3 Story Software, by specialism Hays main example of this is our Managed Service a cloud-based vendor and workforce management system.
We use our scale, infrastructure 1 Outsourcing levels of skilled recruitment in Germany and deep candidate pools to manage Temp and Contract workforces on an outsourced basis.
Often, such contracts 80% are managed on-site at clients locations, or from lowercost Hays regional or international offices.
60% While there is a balance between the net fee rates earned on large contracts and higher transaction volumes, IT 21% 40% we are highly disciplined in how we structure the cost Accountancy & Finance 12% base on each contract to ensure that our contribution 20% Construction margins remain in line with Group conversion rates.
& Property 10% 0% Perm Temp & Contracting Life Sciences 8% Office Support 7% Engineering 6% Other 36% 1 Hays Management estimate.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 First-time outsourcing is common to our growth in both Germany and RoW, driving significant growth for Hays.
The Germany business we acquired in 2003 has delivered Structural growth c. 20% CAGR in net fees since then.
From one specialism in Germany and RoW and 3 million operating profit in 2003, we delivered 97 million across nine specialisms in FY18.
We have While Germany is predominantly a Temp a truly market-leading business, in a market which is Contractor market, and RoW is mainly in Perm structurally under-penetrated.
recruitment, we see considerable similarities.
Both are immature markets with low levels of Similarly, our RoW division has gone from a loss of outsourcing to specialist agencies, and both are 3 million in FY13, to operating profit of 41 million in characterised by skill shortages.
Hays position FY18, with net fees growing at 15% CAGR.
First-time outsourcing is again a substantial opportunity for Hays as a trusted platform to broker the link between in RoW.
We are seeing excellent profit leverage as our white collar talent and employers means we 28 RoW countries gain maturity and scale.
With 99 offices see substantial structural growth opportunities.
in RoW, and scope to increase our number of specialisms, we are optimistic about future growth opportunities.
Historical prole of Hays Germany Historical prole of Hays Germany 25 2,000 350 120 300 100 20 1,500 250 80 15 200 60 1,000 150 10 40 100 500 5 20 50 0 FY06 FY12 FY15 FY18 0 0 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 0 FY03 FY09 Net fees Operating profit O ces Consultants Historical prole of Hays Rest of World 400 50 350 40 300 30 250 20 200 10 150 100 0 FY14 FY13 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 -10 Net fees Operating profit Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Hays Rest of World net fee CAGR FY13-18 15% Hays Germany net fee CAGR FY04-18 20% Germany GDP CAGR c. 3% Net fees m Net fees m Operating profit m Operating profit m O ces Consultants 12 INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS CONTINUED Megatrend 4 EMERGENCE OF NEW, AND EVOLVING, TECHNOLOGIES In FY18, we made excellent progress, notably with the Hays FY18 Technology is transforming how people work.
and WiP tools, further website hits It is revolutionising how clients and candidates development of the Hays Hub, and our collaborations engage and interact with job markets, and with Google, Mya and Stack Overflow.
Almost every area of recruitment is becoming digitally enabled at a breathtaking Connectivity relates to the many and evolving ways clients and candidates interact with Hays.
Central to our pace, creating vast quantities of valuable data.
FY18 Job philosophy is recognising and quickly responding to these applications What this means for us trends, allowing us to cultivate, deepen and enrich our The guiding principles of our technology strategy are: candidate talent pools.
Increasingly, technology enables 10.6m us to anticipate clients demands before they arise.
1 M aximise internal efficiency by developing new consultant tools, and partner with best-in-class software: We received 10.6m job applications in FY18.
To avoid diseconomies of scale, our consultants need to be 2 Test new client and candidate engagement channels: equipped with the best technological tools to search 3 Invest selectively in best-in-class HR Tech software: this complex and ever-increasing bank of data.
4 Investigate new tech-enabled delivery models.
Sifting through huge quantities of candidate data is This approach is summarised in three broad prisms: relatively simple.
The harder part is accurately predicting Approachability, Connectivity and Efficiency.
Approachability, identifying which candidates are likely to respond positively to our direct approach.
Connectivity This alignment of Hays deep IT and data capabilities the science of recruitment, with our consultants deep industry expertise, or the art of recruitment will be a key competitive edge in the future.
This forms the basis of our Find & Engage model.
TALENT SOCIAL Find & Engage takes our ability to engage with Active VIEWER POSTS and Passive talent pools, enabling us to deliver what was once viewed as high-end head hunting, to many more white collar candidates, at scale.
Our aim is to extrapolate Education meaningful data patterns, feeding directly into Hays unique Approachability Index, summarised opposite.
DATA HAYS This index is currently fully functional for just over half SCIENCE ONETOUCH REF our businesses, and due to be completely available MACHINE EXCHANGE LEARNING across the Group by early 2019.
ALGORITHMS WIP Our system uses many inputs and algorithms to gauge SYSTEM SALES how open to an approach a potential candidate is likely to PLANNER be.
By understanding approachability signals, our ability to convert ostensibly passive candidates into active is significantly increased.
Once overlaid with a trusted Hays consultant relationship, we gain a vital competitive edge.
Approachability Efficiency Our content engagement tools are also built to nurture Efficiency remains our overriding goal.
We estimate strong candidate relationships by providing highly that 1% gained via productivity is worth c. 8m to Hays relevant industry, salary and training insights.
Our operating profit, and productivity drove c. 40% of Group implementation of Salesforce Marketing Cloud further profit growth between 2013-18.
We have sector-leading enhances this engagement capability.
We continue to technology, both via internally developed tools and generate significant value from our partnerships with collaborations with leading third parties.
Our expert Hays Google, LinkedIn, SEEK and Xing.
These allow us to Innovation team is tasked with assessing the technology analyse complex user data in real time, gaining invaluable landscape, identifying new trends, opportunities and insight into candidates skills and career ambitions.
threats and building relationships with key players.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Technology and a candidates path The Hays Approachability Index: Our technology helps us to power the world of work, Predicting candidates likely interest in a role and find the best candidates for a role, faster than our competition.
The chart below represents the process of interaction between our active candidate pool, passive candidates and our client base, as we seek to find Signals of Enhanced  matches between the two.
Personal activity & candidate relationships Candidates are added to the Hays database via our expert consultant interests profiles network, and via external sources like Xing, LinkedIn, a wide array of job boards, or directly via the Hays website.
Once in our ecosystem, we work hard to ensure the talent pool remains highly engaged, using content such as Hays Salary Guide and Journals, training and career advice plus our regular blogs and podcasts.
Likelihood Fit to career Trusted The Hays Approachability Index gives us the proprietary ability to move ambitions advisor to access candidates who may otherwise appear to be passive.
This is a major competitive advantage versus peers, and also a compelling reason for clients to outsource to Hays.
Data science models combine a vast range of signals and inputs into a single score to predict a candidates likely interest in a role Measure candidates appetite to move via Hays Approachability Index Internal Hays Placing active Hays website Consultant applications candidates tools HAYS Skilled role HAYS CANDIDATE to be filled CLIENTS DATABASE External OneTouch Partnerships with platforms Job board websites Hays Converting Engagement passive tools and career candidates Engagement content tools convert passive candidates to active and fuel our Find & Engage model Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
