52 Board of Directors A BALANCED AND EFFECTIVE TEAM, FIT FOR PURPOSE.
Executive Board member Non-Executive Director Andrew Martin 58 Alistair Cox 57 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed: 12 July 2017 Appointed: 1 September 2007 Committees: Nomination Chairman Skills and experience: A Chartered Engineer with an MBA from Stanford University, Alistairs early career Skills and experience: Andrew trained as a Chartered was in various field engineering, management and Accountant at Peat Marwick before moving to Arthur research science roles with British Aerospace and then Andersen where he became a partner.
Following his MBA, Alistair worked 2015, Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe and for McKinsey & Company before joining Blue Circle Japan, for Compass Group plc, having previously Industries, where he was the Group Strategy Director been their Group Finance Director from 2004 to and then the Regional Director for Asia.
Before joining Compass Group, Andrew was Hays, Alistair was Chief Executive of Xansa plc.
Alistair Group Finance Director at First Choice Holidays plc was a former non-executive director of 3i Group plc.
and prior to that held a number of Senior Finance roles at Granada Group plc.
Principal external appointments: Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc.
Principal external appointments: Andrew has been a Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc since 2011, Chairing their Finance Committee, a Non-Executive Director at Intertek Group plc since 2016, Chairing their Audit Committee since 2017, and in July 2018 Andrew was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the John Lewis Partnership Board and Chair of their Audit and Risk Committee.
Paul Venables 56 Victoria Jarman 46 Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2 May 2006 Appointed: 1 October 2011 Skills and experience: A Chartered Accountant and Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination and also USA qualified, Paul started his career at Deloitte Remuneration & Touche where he was a Senior Manager in its USA Skills and experience: An engineering graduate of the practice.
This was followed by a 13-year career at University of Leicester and a Chartered Accountant, Exel plc where he held a number of senior finance Victoria started her career with KPMG before moving and operational roles including Deputy Group Finance toLazard Corporate Finance, where she was Chief Director and was a member of the Executive Board of Operating Officer of Lazards London and Middle Exel plc and Chairman of their Acquisitions and Project East operations and a member of its European Review Board.
Following the acquisition of Exel plc Management Committee.
by Deutsche Post, Paul worked in its DHL Logistics division before joining Hays.
Paul is a former Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
In remembrance Alan Thomson 1946 2018 Alan joined the Board as a Director on 1 October 2010 and was appointed Chairman on 10 November 2010.
He served the Company in that role until his untimely passing on 23 July 2018, including for the duration of the year under review in this Annual Report.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 Board diversity Board tenure Board experience Board composition Male 63% 0-3 years 37% Finance 37% Non-Executive 63% Female 37% 3-6 years 26% Engineering and Chairman 12% technology 25% 6 years 37% Executive 25% Media and marketing 13% Operations 25% Torsten Kreindl 55 Susan Murray 61 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 June 2013 Appointed: 12 July 2017 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chairman Skills and experience: A graduate from Johannes Kepler University in Linz, Austria with a PhD in Skills and experience: Susans executive career was industrial engineering and technical chemistry.
spent in consumer goods and retail, with organisations Torsten has held senior executive positions for such as Colgate Palmolive, Kraft, Duracell and Diageo Booz Allen Hamilton and Deutsche Telekom AG.
and, most recently, as CEO of Littlewoods Stores.
Susan has served as a non-executive director Principal external appointments: Torsten is a partner of Compass Group plc, Imperial Tobacco Group inGrazia Equity, a Munich-based capital firm.
now Imperial Brands plc and Enterprise Inns now EI Group plc.
Principal external appointments: Susan is a nonexecutive director of Grafton Group plc, where she also chairs their Remuneration Committee.
MT Rainey 63 Peter Williams 65 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 14 December 2015 Appointed: 24 February 2015 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Skills and experience: An experienced media and Skills and experience: Peter has a Law degree from advertising professional, MT Rainey has worked Cambridge University and is a Chartered Accountant.
extensively in the UK and US.
MT founded the He was, until 2011, Group Finance Director of Daily Mail advertising agency Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe, & General Trust plc, a role he performed for 19 years, which she grew to a top 20 agency before it was sold making him one of the longest-serving CFOs in to Y&R, a subsidiary of WPP plc, and where MT was the FTSE.
In addition she was Chair Principal external appointments: Since 2011 Peter of the leading digital strategy agency Th nk Ltd from has been a non-executive director of Perform Group, 2008-2015.
Previous non-executive directorships held a leading digital sports media company: he is also a by MT include WH Smith plc, STV Group plc, Channel 4 Trustee of the Royal Academy and a member of the Television and Pinewood Group plc.
MT has Masters Industrial Advisory Board of GVQ Asset Management, degrees from Aston University and Glasgow University.
Doug Evans 55 Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointed: 4 February 2013 Skills and experience: A law graduate from Rhodes University who began his career with Webber Wentzel in South Africa, specialising in corporate and commercial law before moving in-house.
Doug has previously held the posts of Company Secretary & Corporate Legal Director at Exel plc and Group General Counsel at Royal Mail Limited.
Prior to joining Hays, Doug was an executive director, Company Secretary & General Counsel at Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
