22 Our business model A GLOBALLY INTEGRATED PLATFORM WITH LOCAL EXPERTISE We believe that having a balanced exposure within and between our markets is key to driving superior and relatively resilient financial performance, and better results for our clients, through the economic cycle.
We have a business with scale, breadth and diversity of exposure, designed to take into account the megatrends driving change in our industry, as well as the short-term market movements we experience.
A balanced and diverse model A key driver of our growth is therefore the first-time outsourcing of this recruitment to third parties.
This We have deliberately and strategically built a business means that these markets are relatively less cyclical, which is balanced and diverse.
and relatively less-driven by the prevailing economic Within our network, we have exposure to both more backdrop, or short-term sentiment.
More mature markets cyclical, mature markets such as the UK and more are those where the use of agencies is a well-established, immature, structural-growth markets such as Germany long-standing norm.
Here, clients will use agencies to and in Asia.
We are exposed to Temporary, Contractor help them fill roles in the majority of cases.
and Permanent recruitment markets and have deep scale As such, these markets are more cyclical in nature, and expertise in 20 specialist areas of skilled employment.
with activity levels dependent far more on the amount We are predominantly private sector-focused, but also of job churn occurring at any particular time.
serve public sector clients in some markets.
Within our We have a business with scale, breadth and diversity portfolio of services, we work on one-off placements for of exposure, which is built to take into account the SMEs and global multinationals, as well as contract-based megatrends driving change in our industry, the short-term higher volume recruitment for our larger clients.
The market movements we experience and positions us balance, breadth and scale of our business is unique to work towards our long-term aims and strategy.
in the world of specialist recruitment.
This is a key differentiator, and we believe it is important as it makes our business and its earnings relatively more resilient to todays ever-changing macroeconomic and political landscape.
Exposure to mature and less-maturemarkets Structural-growth markets are those where the use of agencies like Hays to source skilled candidates is a relatively new practice.
Traditionally in these markets, this recruitment is undertaken by companies themselves, using hiring teams within their own HR functions.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23 Balanced exposure across markets Breadth of expertise Net fees by clients Net fees by geography Net fees by type Top 40 Other clients c. 15% c. 85% 19% 26% 24% 31% 38% 62% Australia & Germany UK & Rest of Professional Technical New Zealand Ireland World Net fees by specialisms Contract type IT & Digital 21% Private Public Accountancy & Finance 15% 85% 15% Construction & Property 14% Engineering 9% Office Support 7% Other 33% Major specialisms within Otherinclude: Sales & Marketing 5%, HTS 5%, LifeSciences 4%, Banking related 4%, Temp Perm Education 2% and Legal 2%.
58% 42% Net fees by geography, type and market maturity Structural immature Cyclical mature 54% 46% 0-30% market penetration 30-70% market penetration 70% market penetration 29% 13% 85% 33% 65% 55% 56% Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp 87% Perm 71% Perm 67% Perm 45% 44% Perm Perm 35% Perm 15% Perm LatAm, Russia Asia Germany France, Canada Australia & New Zealand US UK & Ireland & Rest of Europe &The Netherlands Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C 24 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED A balanced and diverse model CREATING What we need to make our business model work.
VALUE FOR ALL People and culture STAKEHOLDERS Our people Society Hays is the ultimate people We believe that what we do Our consultants develop long-term business and as such the ability makes a bigdifference to the to attract, develop, enable and world around us.
Wehelp relationships with clients and candidates retain the very best consultants hundreds of thousands of to understand their local markets and managers in our industry is people every year to secure vital to our success.
We aim to the next leg on their personal and are equipped with the latest create an exciting and vibrant career journey, and companies technology, tools and data to match work environment and we strive source the skilled employees they continuously to provide our need togrow.
This all contributes candidates to roles.
people with attractive career to the wider growth and success We understand the needs and challenges of our paths that will make them of the economies andcommunities clientsand candidates locally and employ the experts in their fields.
power ofour integrated global business to meet them quickly and effectively.
We take our relationships with wider stakeholders in society very seriously, and this is discussed further in our Acting Responsibly section.
Brand, technology and data Brand Technology and data Our reputation as a world-leader in We have built a sector-leading See our business model page 22 the specialist recruitment market is global technology platform that Read about our KPIs page 26 supported and reinforced by our is able to interact with other Read about our risks page 38 world-class global brand, which is applications and third-party Read more about our acting responsibly policies page 43 consistent in each of our markets technologies.
This, together with Read more on our remuneration page 68 around the world.
We constantly our investment in data science focus on building wider recognition and digital marketing capabilities, and awareness of Hays as a market enables ourconsultants to make leader both through partnerships sense of the vastamount of data with other organisations and by generated in todaysworld, source building a portfolio of high quality real-time, accurate information on and respected publications their market and ultimately to get that demonstrate the thoughtthe best candidates to clients leadership credential of Hays faster than anyone else.
Relationships Partnerships and Client and candidate collaborations relationships Our philosophy is not just to invest Forming and maintaining strong in technology solutions, but also relationships with our clients and to build strong collaborations with candidates is at the heart of what leading innovators and influential we do.
Our extensive engagement organisations, creating mutually marketing programme offers them beneficial relationships which industry-leading content, with the help us better understand and aim of helping them succeed in serve our clients and candidates.
their careers and source the right Thisphilosophy extends beyond talent for their business.
This also the technology sector and includes making connections enhances our ability to better with people who are not yet respond to fast-moving market clients or candidates andbuilding developments.
a relationship which would make them more likely to be open to future approaches Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 y m o n o c e o r c a M t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C L m o R r c e o a f l c r t u e a i x t l m p p e e d n r t e t m t i s a a Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25 How we create value Capital reinvestment Stakeholder benefits Our priority for free cash flow As the ultimate people business, The value we create not only remains tofund the Groups everything we do is focused on placing generates returnsfor our shareholders, investment and development.
the right people into the right roles.
Clients We work closely with our clients to help them find the skilled people they need to drive growth in their businesses.
We work with thousands of companies every year, with no single client representing more than 1% of Group net fees.
Number of clients Private Public sector 30,000 85:15 Candidates We help candidates secure their next Perm job orTemp Contracting assignment.
We connect ourcandidates with the world of work through an array of events, debates, seminars and networking opportunities across our network of 33 countries.
2018 Perm 2018 Temp Contract placements assignments 77,000 244,000 Employees We invest a significant amount of time and effort to ensure Hays is a great place to work.
We offer our consultants the Market Understanding best training to become experts in their market and develop expertise client needs their careers, along with the best technology and tools in the industry to enable them to be as productive and successful aspossible.
2018 Internal 2018 Formal Finding clients promotions trainingdays great talent 3,370 4,185 Shareholders We continue to make progress on our objective of building the Data, tools Candidate worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
The breadth, scale and balance of our business model, together and products relationships with our industry-leading operating leverage, allow us to deliver superior relative financial performance through the cycle.
This, combined with our focus on working capital management and the cash-generative nature ofour business, means we have the potential togenerate meaningful shareholder returns as ourbusiness grows.
2018 EPS 2018 dividends paid growth and proposed 18% 128.4m Society During FY18 our CO intensity ratio decreased by 5%.
2 Hays is a diverse business which seeks to have a positive effect on the local and global community, anchored by our solid governance framework.
Gender 2018 YoY CO intensity 2 ratio ratio reduction 63F:37M 5% Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 r e r k g a e e t n t m d n e i g d l a a e t r l b i e v n o d l e s G r y y m o n o c e o r c a M
