Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REPORT 95 DIRECTORS REPORT Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered as a public Financial instruments limited company in England and Wales.
Its headquarters Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are are in London and it is listed on the main market of the set out in notes 18 to 20 to the Consolidated Financial London Stock Exchange.
A general outline of Hays use of financial instruments is set out in the treasury management section Strategic Report on page 37 of the Financial Review of this Report.
A description of the Companys business model and strategy is set out in the Strategic Report along with the Directors factors likely to affect the Groups future development, Biographies of the serving directors of Hays are provided performance and position.
An overview of the principal on pages 52 and 53 of this Report.
They all served risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are also on the Board throughout the 2018 financial year.
provided in the Strategic Report.
Alan Thomson also served on the Board throughout FY18 and until his passing in July 2018.
Andrew Martin The Statement of Compliance with the Code for was appointed as Chairman, initially on an interim basis, the reporting period is contained in the Corporate and permanently with effect from 28 August 2018.
General powers of the directors Information relating to matters addressed by the The powers of the directors are contained in the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Companys Articles of Association Articles.
These which operate within clearly defined terms of reference, powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at are set out within the Audit, Remuneration and which a quorum of three directors is present.
The power Nomination Committee Reports.
of the Board to manage the business is subject to any In accordance with Section 414CB of the Companies limitations imposed by the Companies Act 2006, the Articles or any directions given by special resolution Act 2006, all of the matters above are incorporated of theshareholders applicable at a relevant time.
by reference into this Directors Report.
The Articles contain an express authority for the The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, its appointment of executive directors and provide the directors with the authority to delegate or confer upon directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or such directors any of the powers exercisable by them assume responsibility to any other person to whom this upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers and discretions to committees and This Report contains certain forward-looking statements subcommittees.
with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements Directors powers to allot and buy back shares involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances The directors have the power to authorise the issue and buycan cause results and developments to differ from those back of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect authority being given to the directors by the shareholders knowledge and information available at the date of in general meeting, applicable legislation and the Articles.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Appointment and replacement of directors Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act Related party transactions as a director by ordinary resolution and may remove any Details of the related party transactions undertaken director by ordinary resolution.
The Board may appoint during the reporting period are contained in note 26 any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional director, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
provided that they are submitted for election by the Post balance sheet events shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, There have been no significant events to report since including cases where a director becomes prohibited by the date of the balance sheet.
law or regulation from holding office, or is persistently Dividends absent from directors meetings, or if three-quarters An interim dividend of 1.06 pence 2017: 0.96 pence per of appointed directors request his or her resignation Ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 12 April 2018. or in thecase of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 2.75 pence 2017: 2.26 pence per Ordinary share.
Directors indemnities The Company continues to maintain third-party directors In addition, the Board is also recommending the payment and officers liability insurance for the benefit of its of a special dividend of 5.00 pence 2017: 4.25 pence per Ordinary share.
These three dividend payments will directors.
This provides insurance cover for any claim brought against directors or officers for wrongful acts in represent a total dividend of 8.81 pence 2017: 7.47 pence connection with their positions.
The directors have also per Ordinary share for the financial year ended 30 June 2018.
Subject to the shareholders of the Company been granted qualifying third-party indemnities, as permitted under the Companies Act 2006, which remain approving this recommendation at the 2018 AGM, the in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities extend final and special dividends will be paid, in aggregate, to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and do not on 16 November 2018 to those shareholders appearing on the register of members as at 5 October 2018. provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties provided by law.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 96 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests dilution under all share plans operated by a company Details of the interests of Hays directors and their should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company tothe Companys share capital, with a further limitation are outlined in the Remuneration Report.
of5% in any 10-year period on executive plans.
The Companys share plans operate within ABI recommended Share capital guidelines on dilution limits.
Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income or control over the Company.
These Major shareholders shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
As at 30 June 2018, the following shareholders held On 30 June 2018, the Company had 1,464,096,566 fully aninterest of 3% or more of the Companys issued paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which 12,757,577 Ordinary sharecapital: % of total shares were held in treasury by the Company.
voting rights The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Cedar Rock Capital Limited 7.6% Ordinary shares are contained in the Articles.
In brief, the Baillie Gifford & Co 5.9% Ordinary shares allow holders to receive dividends and to Chainpoint Unit Trust 5.5% exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share for every Columbia Threadneedle Investments 5.4% holder present in person or by proxy at general meetings Marathon Asset Management 4.8% of the Company.
They also have the right to a return of Majedie Asset Management 3.0% capital on the winding-up of the Company.
At the date of this report, Chainpoint had notified the Company There are no restrictions on the size of holding or the that its holding had fallen below the 3% disclosure threshold.
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles and legislation.
Going concern Under the Articles, the directors have the power to The Groups business activities, together with the suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends factors likely to affect its future development, inrespect of Ordinary shares and to refuse to register performance and position are set out in the Strategic a transfer of Ordinary shares in circumstances where Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice and liquidity position are described in the Financial issued under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. Review, with details of theGroups treasury activities, The directors also have the power to refuse to register long-term funding arrangements and exposure to any transfer of certificated shares that does not satisfy financial risk included in notes 18 and 19 to the the conditions set out in the Articles.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between The Group has sufficient financial resources which, shareholders that might result in the restriction of transfer together with internally generated cash flows, will of voting rights in relation to the shares held by such continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to shareholders.
fund its current operations, including its contractual and commercial commitments and any proposed Treasury shares dividends.
The Group is therefore well placed to manage As Hays has only one class of share in issue, it may hold its business risks.
a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in treasury.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed the As at 30 June 2018, 0.87% of the Companys shares were held in treasury.
Legislation restricts the exercise of rights judgment at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
The Company is not allowed to exercise voting rights conferred by the shares Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they while they are held in treasury.
It is prohibited from paying any dividend or making any distribution of assets on continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Once in treasury, shares can only be sold for cash, transferred to an employee share scheme or Articles of association cancelled.
During the 2018 financial year, Hays transferred The Companys Articles may only be amended by special 8,321,552 shares out of treasury to satisfy the award of resolution of the shareholders.
shares under the Companys employee share schemes Disclosure of information to the Auditor Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust So far as the directors who held office at the date of The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the Trust is an approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant employee benefit trust which is permitted to hold audit information of which the external Auditor is unaware Ordinary shares in the Company for employee share and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought schemes purposes.
No shares were held by the Trust to have taken as a director to make himself or herself as atthe year end.
Shares held in the Trust may be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish transferred to participants of the various Group share that the external Auditor is aware of that information.
No voting rights are exercisable in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
This confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Dilution limits in respect of share schemes The current Association of British Insurers ABI guidance responsibility for which now rests with the Investment Association on dilution limits provide that the overall Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 97 2018 annual report and financial statements in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and shares for cash up to a specified maximum nominal having considered all matters brought to the attention amount which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive of the Board during the financial year, the Board is basis of any shares held in treasury.
satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special resolution taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
to renew this authority for a period expiring at the The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Annual Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Authority to purchase own shares business model and strategy.
A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the Annual General Meeting market.
Resolution 17 will seek to renew this authority.
The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on 14 November The directors intend only to exercise this authority if to 2018 at the offices of UBS, 5 Broadgate, London EC2M 2QS.
do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The Company will have the option of holding, as treasury The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and gives details of the voting shares, any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give record date and proxy appointment deadline for that Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in a separate the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with flexibility in the management of its circular to shareholders which is being mailed or otherwise provided to shareholders at the same time employee shares schemes.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will as this Report.
attach to the treasury shares.
Auditor Resolutions 12 and 13 at the forthcoming AGM The price paid for Ordinary shares will not be less than will respectively propose the reappointment of the nominal value of 1 pence per share and not more than  LLP as Auditor of the the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market Company and authorise the directors to determine quotations of the Companys Ordinary shares as derived its remuneration.
These resolutions will be proposed from the London Stock Exchange.
as ordinary resolutions and shall have effect until the Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special resolution to conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company renew this authority for a period expiring at the conclusion at which accounts are laid.
Political donations Notice of general meetings The Company made no political donations during the The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 year and intends to maintain its policy of not making such for general meetings of the Company is 21 clear days, payments.
It will however as a precautionary measure unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
authority at the 2018 AGM to make limited donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it has At last years AGM, shareholders authorised the calling no intention of using the authority.
of general meetings other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and Resolution 18 will be proposed Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution as a special resolution and seeks to renew this authority.
to seek authority to make political donations, and if The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be passed, such authority shall expire at the conclusion for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used Authority to allot shares where, taking into account the circumstances, the At the 2017 AGM, shareholders authorised the directors, directors consider this appropriate in relation to the subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allot Ordinary business to be considered at the meeting and in the shares or grant rights to subscribe for or grant rights to interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
subscribe for or convert any securities into shares without the prior consent of shareholders.
This authority expires Recommendation at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company Accordingly, Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting resolution to renew this authority for a period expiring at in favour of them and unanimously recommends that the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
The directors have no you do so as well.
present intention of exercising this authority.
By order of the Board Disapplication of pre-emption rights Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was Doug Evans passed under the Companies Act 2006 empowering Company Secretary the directors to allot equity securities for cash without 29 August 2018 first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 16 will seek to renew this authority.
If approved, the resolution will authorise directors in accordance with the Articles to issue shares Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
