Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 43 ACTING RESPONSIBLY Our good conduct is the foundation of our reputation and the trust our clients place in us.
In making economic decisions, we have regard to the impact of those decisions on other stakeholders, including society and the wider environment.
Expert: As experts across many industry sectors and Non-financial performance reporting professions, our professional know-how and unique Hays recognises the importance of sustainability agendas understanding of markets and people is shared with to all stakeholders.
This isnt simply the benefits for our clients, candidates and across our expanding investors, but the broader impact we can have on peoples global network.
lives: it could be directly, through employment with us or Inquisitive: Were always curious, wanting to understand as a candidate whom we place in a role, to the less direct, more about people and the world of work.
Thats how but in many ways more obvious and easier to achieve, we build deeper knowledge into what makes people fit such as doing business the right way to ensure fair rates culturally and how companies and people can achieve of tax are paid and discrimination and labour exploitation their full potential.
Information on some of the policies are not tolerated.
that underpin our approach to acting responsibly are We intend to build on our efforts to achieve a more provided below.
We will look to implement a Group-wide framework and consider Employee policies whether targets are an appropriate means by which we Hays is the ultimate people business and, as such, the can drive behaviours and continuously improve how we ability to attract, develop, enable and retain the very best perform.
consultants and managers in our industry is vital to our success.
We aim to create an exciting and vibrant work We will look at existing initiatives, such as the UN environment and culture and we work continuously to Sustainable Development Goals and GRI, to assess which, provide our people with attractive career paths that will if any, we can adopt to support our strategic priorities to make them experts in their fields.
Respect for people and becoming an Employer of Choice At Hays we view corporate social responsibility as an are the core values in our approach.
Our aim is to create integral part of the way we do business.
Hays provides an open, honest and unprejudiced working environment an environment for our people to thrive and grow in their and to ensure that all our colleagues feel part of Hays and roles.
This provides the opportunity to meet one of the are respected as individuals.
most fundamental needs in society, the importance of an individuals ability to earn a financial income, allowing Hays gives full consideration to applications for them to be self-sufficient.
employment from disabled persons where they have the right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an Values employee become disabled while working for the We are leading global experts in qualified, professional Group, Hays would make every effort to accommodate and skilled recruitment.
By truly understanding our them, to assist them in any re-training or to find suitable candidates and clients, locally and globally, we help alternative employment within the Group.
We pursue people and companies achieve lasting impact.
Our values equality of opportunity, treatment and diversity aim to reflect this promise, and underpin our skills, through our employment policies and encourage our behaviours and way of doing business.
These values are: employees to reach their full potential through training Ambitious: As a results-orientated company we and development.
are continually driven to succeed.
Our energy and Hays continues to provide tailored training to the people dynamism makes us ambitious for our people, clients who are in the front line of delivering recruitment solutions and candidates, and for the positive impact we know as well as in management and leadership roles.
These recruiting can have in their lives.
programmes take a number of different guises across Passionate about people: We are a people business so the Groups regional businesses but all share the common were passionate about creating valuable relationships goal of improving the service we provide to clients.
with everyone with whom we work.
Our enthusiasm Hays in Germany, Austria and Switzerland received the compels us to find the right person, believing this is title Top Employer 2018 for outstanding and modern fundamental to improving their life and work, allowing personnel management, which is once again a great people to be all they can be.
In France, we took first place in the Recruitment Consulting category under the 2018 Figure World Ranking.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 44 ACTING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Diversity at Hays At Hays, diversity means understanding and reflecting the community in which we operate, and building loyalty with our colleagues, candidates and clients.
Differences such as age, gender, ethnicity, physical appearance, religion, disability, education and beliefs are valued and everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the Company and fulfil their potential.
Equality, diversity and inclusion are devolved within the Group to operate at a country level, and policies supporting this are adopted locally.
We do not at this stage have one Group-wide policy that encourages or targets diversity across the Group but, instead, policies that actively discourage ignorance of it.
In the UK for example, Hays is delighted to have achieved the National Equality Standard fines, one of the UKs most rigorous and prestigious accreditations for equality, diversity and inclusion ED&I.
Hays is one of only 20 organisations nationwide to be accredited.
Our values underpin our skills, behaviours and way of doing business.
It recognises our long-term commitment to developing a meritocratic, open and honest culture we want the best and brightest to flourish at Hays, regardless of Split of PLC Employee involvement background.
Since accreditation to the fines over two Board Members Ongoing communication forms the basis of the partnership years ago, we have undertaken new projects and between Hays leadership and its employees.
Employees initiatives, and strengthened existing ones, to build an receive business performance updates from Alistair Cox, even stronger culture of ED&I.
All new employees in the Chief Executive, and from their respective regional the UK undergo training around respecting diversity.
Managing Directors, by email on a four-weekly basis.
These are posted on the Groups intranet, which acts as a We value and utilise the differences that our people bring source of reference for the Groups brand, values, policies to our business and in the competitive environment in and procedures.
which we operate, it is therefore essential that we attract and retain the best people and those that reflect the client Male 63% Regular presentations are also made to employees by and candidate groups we serve.
Female 37% the Chief Executive and regional Managing Directors during office visits made over the course of the year.
At Hays we share a passion for creating opportunities for our people to flourish and succeed, whatever their Split of Senior To ensure that employees remain engaged in our Management background.
We know that diversity of perspective and business, an annual employee engagement survey, team members an inclusive approach is great for business and careers known as TALKback, is carried out each year.
By reflecting our marketplace and embracing employees to voice their views and opinions on all difference we can continue to drive an outstanding aspects of their workplace environment, training and organisational culture that impacts business results development, work culture, leadership and client relations.
and delivers world-class service to our customers.
The results, which indicate employee engagement levels Fundamental to our leading expertise is a shared and highlight any areas of concern, are presented to the commitment to equality and to capturing the dynamism Management Board and to the Board.
that diversity and inclusion bring to our workplace.
Hays believes in the value of loyalty and considers its We are embarking on a more coordinated initiative around Male 74% employee incentive programme of commission schemes, sustainability and corporate purpose and ED&I will form Female 26% performance-related cash bonuses and share schemes to part of this workstream.
be important factors in keeping its employees motivated.
The employee share schemes have been running Diversity and Inclusion and harnessing the value of Split of employees successfully since inception and provide many employees difference is a growing priority for many of our clients.
with an additional stake in the business.
More and more clients are asking Hays to assist them to achieve their goals of building a diverse and skilled Gender statistics as at 30 June 2018 are provided in workforce.
We conduct regular surveys and issue the adjacent charts.
supporting reports and media releases about diversity to continue to raise awareness and encourage an ongoing dialogue on this important employment topic.
While we can advise on all areas of diversity, our initial recruitingMale 37% linked focus has been on increasing the participation Female 63% of women in the world of work.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 45 Through our affiliation with the NDRC we can broadcast Equal opportunities our roles to the disability employment network either for Our Equal Opportunity Policy forms part of our Code individual positions or entire recruitment campaigns.
of Conduct and Ethics Policy.
We make every effort In Poland, Hays is Co-organiser of Warszawa Business to ensure that no discrimination arises during the Run, the biggest charity relay in Poland and we have recruitment, employment and period after employment worked with them for four years now.
We collect money of any employee for reasons of gender, sexual orientation, to help amputees get back to normal life.
The main theme marital status, creed, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or is run for a reason so able-bodied people run in teams national origin, religious or other belief, political opinion, of five to help people with disabilities in the run.
spent convictions, disability or age, and all employees are expected to deal with all persons with the same attention, Hays Ireland work with JobCare to help those stuck in the courtesy and consideration.
This support of equal trap of unemployment.
This initiative is aimed at members opportunities applies not only as a direct employer of the community who are long-term unemployed and but also in our introduction of candidates to clients.
Hays provide their expertise and time to help people gain the skills, knowledge and confidence necessary to secure Community appropriate work.
This is our eighth year working with Finding people jobs is a vital benefit to society.
In addition, JobCare and over the last 12 months Hays has visited the we invest in our communities, including direct initiatives JobCare centre to deliver CV, cover letter and LinkedIn through charities to improve the employment prospects clinics.
We have also hosted JobCare clients in the Hays of the disadvantaged.
offices for comprehensive mock interviews aimed at preparing the clients for the real thing.
At Hays, we use our position as the market leading recruitment consultancy to provide clients with relevant Human rights information and raise awareness about topical issues Our relationships with clients, candidates, employees, affecting employment.
business partners, suppliers and the communities within Some examples of community activities from across which we operate are based upon respect for individuals the Group are provided below.
In Australia we have an affiliation with the National At Hays we are committed to our Code of Conduct and Disability Recruitment Coordinator NDRC to help Ethics Policy, which reflects the way we operate including organisations implement processes and strategies to in relation to human rights.
All staff within Hays are promote the recruitment and retention of people with expected to act with integrity and honesty and behave disability.
The Hays Guide to Disability in the Recruitment in a way that is above reproach, as well as treat people Process, offers our clients useful information about fairly, with courtesy and respect, be responsible, improving all aspects of the recruitment cycle.
respect diversity and communicate openly.
Anti-bribery and corruption Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
All employees are required to comply with the Hays Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and undertake training on it on an annual basis.
The policy prohibits the giving or receiving of bribes in any form.
All our employees are expected to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The offer or acceptance of any form of bribery is prohibited, including facilitation fees.
Hospitality, gifts and improper offers or payments that seek to induce or reward improper performance or might appear to place any person under an obligation are prohibited.
All Hays companies and employees will adhere to the highest ethical and legal standards in business dealings throughout the world.
Conflicts of interest that interfere with proper performance or independent judgment are prohibited.
We expect our staff to communicate transparently and honestly with our clients, candidates, business partners, suppliers and governmental and regulatory bodies, within the legal framework of privacy and confidentiality.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 46 ACTING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Supplier code of conduct Climate Change Survey and have different initiatives We expect our suppliers and potential suppliers to aim to ensure that we do all we can to improve our for high ethical standards and to operate in an ethical, carbon footprint by reducing energy consumption legally-compliant and professional manner by adhering by our employees.
to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
We also expect our suppliers to promote similar standards in their own Hays gathers data from every office around the world in supply chain.
order to calculate our greenhouse gas GHG emissions in accordance with the World Resources Institute WRI Our Supplier Code of Conduct can be found on our Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
We measure our annual website at haysplc.
emissions in relation to employees our intensity ratio.
Environmental matters As a people-based business, number of employees is FTSE4Good Index a quantifiable factor associated with our activities.
FTSE Russell the trading name of FTSE International Our reporting year for GHG emissions is 1 April 2017 to Limited and Frank Russell Company confirms that Hays 31 March 2018, and this year, notwithstanding an increased plc has been independently assessed according to the number of employees in the Group, our employee FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements intensity per tonne CO e was 1.50 against 1.58 last year.
2 to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Regulatory compliance Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the UK Gender Pay Gap Report performance of companies demonstrating strong We are committed to being transparent in our reporting Environmental, Social and Governance ESG practices.
and about the steps we are taking to continue to ensure The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of that both women and men have the same career support market participants to create and assess responsible and development and are able to reach their full potential.
investment funds and other products.
The UK Gender Pay Gap Report explains the Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements, how they affect Hays, our Greenhouse gas emissions results and the steps we continue to take to support We are committed to operating our businesses in diversity and equal opportunities for everyone.
an increasingly sustainable manner and will seek to reduce our environmental impact year on year.
Hays is committed to the following: This year our intensity ratio fell 5%.
Ensuring that everyone has the same opportunities Under our Environmental policy, we are committed and support to progress in their career: and to achieving continuous improvement in environmental Supporting our employees in balancing their work and performance and to preventing pollution.
As a home commitments, whether this be through flexible FTSE4 Good member, we also ensure that suppliers working or other supportive policies such as shared and contractors are encouraged to minimise the impact parental leave.
of their operations on the environment and actively Our UK Gender Pay Gap Report can be found on our support our environmental programmes through website, haysplc.
an environmentally sensitive purchasing policy.
2018 2017 Total GHGs % Total GHGs % tonnes contribution tonnes contribution 1 1 Impact Scope Resource CO e to total CO e to total 2 2 Direct Scope 1 Operational fuel 108 1 115 1 Vehicle fuel 4,629 29 4,511 30 Refrigerant 548 3 383 2 2 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 5,187 32 5,590 37 District heating 363 2 396 3 Scope 3 Air travel 4,079 25 3,292 21 Rail travel 253 2 260 2 Electricity T&D losses 516 3 540 3 Private cars business use 452 3 192 1 Total direct and indirect 16,135 100 15,279 100 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide for the 2 12-month period ended 31 March 2018.
Out-of-scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 253 tonnes of CO e 2 167 tonnes in FY17.
2 All electricity totals are calculated using 2015 government location-based conversion factors.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Modern Slavery Act Statement The Companys Tax Strategy, compliant with the UK Hays plc and its global subsidiaries Hays recognise that Finance Act 2016, Schedule 19, can be found on our all businesses have an obligation to prevent slavery and website, haysplc.
com, and applies across the Group.
human trafficking and will do all in its power to prevent Non-financial performance reporting slavery and human trafficking within its business and We comply with the requirements under the provisions within the supply chains through which it operates.
of The Companies Act 2006 contained in sections 414CA Hays ensures strict compliance checks are carried out on and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The information all candidates it supplies.
We verify the identity of each provided above is to help our stakeholders to understand worker and their right to work before supply commences.
our stance on key non-financial matters.
The Companys Modern Slavery Act statement can By order of the Board be found on our website, haysplc.
Doug Evans Tax strategy Company Secretary Hays plc is firm in its belief that tax matters.
As a business 29 August 2018 we understand that tax helps to fund vital public services and infrastructure, and when paid fairly it ensures a level playing field for businesses, whether large or small.
Hays in Germany is trialling the use of electric vehicles to reduce their impact on the environment.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 48 ACTING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Acting responsibly for all stakeholders is embedded in our strategic priorities Strategic priorities Invest in Build critical Materially Generate, people mass & scale increase and reinvest and 2018 technology across our diversify distribute cash achievements & prepare for global Group profits returns change platform Group headcount Hays is a meritocracy based on a strong Group culture, up 8%.
4,185 training Employees career development and our reputation for providing days held & 3,370 the best training in the industry internal promotions We helped We receive 65m website hits and 10m job applications c. 320,000 people Candidates annually.
Our candidate relationships are based on trust, find a new career and supported by career guidance and industry expertise in FY18 30,000 clients Clients are at the heart of what we do.
We have a constant trust Hays with their main asset their Clients focus on delivering the specialisms they need, when they people.
Strategic need them CBI1 Partner Helping people back to work improves We find the right jobs for people.
This enables businesses, quality of life.
Communities their people and communities to flourish Training & community initiatives Reduced annual Initiatives such as Switch It Off, video-conferencing and CO per employee2.
2 Environment FTSE4Good recycling help reduce carbon intensity across our offices member3 Over 86% of employees engaged Our corporate governance framework intrinsically links the Shareholders in our annual Board and management to employees, clients and investors TALKback survey this year 1 CBI Confederation of British Industry.
2 Our employee GHG emission intensity per tonne CO e was 1.50 in 2018 against 1.58 last year.
2 3 Hays plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS PRINCIPAL STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNANCE 50 Chairmans statement How the Hays Board 52 Board of Directors sets strategic direction 54 Leadership and provides oversight 59 Relations with shareholders 60 Effectiveness and control.
63 Accountability 68 Remuneration Report 95 Directors Report 98 Directors responsibilities Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
