Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 40 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their directors report for the year GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ended 31 December 2018.
The strategic report and the As the Companys activities are all outsourced to third corporate governance report on pages 32 to 38 form a parties, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions part of the directors report.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND DIRECTOR INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE The net asset value NAV of the Company at 31 December The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour 2018 was 1,307.9p per ordinary share 2017 1,374.9p.
The deeds cover any liabilities that This represented a decrease of 4.9% during the year, may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for compared to a decrease in the comparative indices of 18.1% negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The directors Numis Smaller Companies Index plus AIM ex.
investment are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, companies and an increase of 4.7% Russell 2000 small any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in cap Technology Index in sterling terms.
The discount connection with criminal proceedings in which the director was 17.8% 2017 14.8%.
is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him.
In addition, the The directors do not recommend a dividend for the year indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent that it ended 31 December 2018 2017 nil.
is recovered from another person.
DIRECTORS The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability The directors are listed on page 35.
those directors who will be considered for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM appear on page 68.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES These are set out as part of the strategic report.
GOING CONCERN In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils MAJOR INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the directors The following table sets out the names of those have undertaken a rigorous review of the Companys shareholders holding 3% or more of the issued ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys share capital at 31 December 2018.
No notifications principal risks are market related and include market risk, have been received since then under DTR5.
liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks % of issued and how they are managed is contained in note 18 to the share capital financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority Rathbone Investment Management 13.51 of which are investments in quoted securities, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require the prior Lazard Asset Management LLC 6.88 approval of the board.
Gearing levels and compliance Wells Capital Management Inc 6.64 with loan covenants are reviewed by the board on a Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 5.21 regular basis.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, shareholders have the right to vote on JM Finn & Co 4.17 the continuation of the Company as an investment trust Charles Stanley & Co 3.39 every three years and a resolution to that effect will be proposed at the AGM in 2019.
The directors have no Speirs & Jeffrey 3.30 reason to believe that the resolution will not be passed.
Brewin Dolphin Securities 3.04 Hargreaves Lansdown 3.02 After making enquiries, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
There are no material uncertainties that call into question the Companys ability REGULATORY COMPLIANCE to continue to be a going concern for at least 12 months THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS from the date of approval of these financial statements and AIFM DIRECTIVE the board is confident that the Company will be able to The AIFM is required to provide portfolio management, continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
risk management, administration, accounting and company secretarial services to the Company.
The Company has CONFLICTS OF INTEREST appointed HIML as its AIFM, to undertake these functions on its Each director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest behalf.
As reported elsewhere, HIML has elected to delegate to the nomination committee on an annual basis, or as some of these functions.
The Bank of New York Mellon they arise.
The committee considers these carefully, taking International Limited is the depositary and is paid 0.015% into account the circumstances surrounding them, and per annum of the total net assets of the portfolio adjusted makes a recommendation to the board on whether or to include any leverage.
The depositary is responsible for not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no situations AIFMs are obliged to publish certain information for investors which gave rise to a direct or indirect interest of a director and prospective investors, which may be found either in this which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
annual report or on the Companys website.
Any information on remuneration not already disclosed in the remuneration BRIBERY ACT 2010 report will be provided to investors on request.
The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly The AIFMD requires an annual disclosure of leverage.
The manager, administrator and company On a gross basis, this is 0.96 against a maximum of secretary also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have 2.00 2017 0.99: 2.00 and on a commitment basis, policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 41 THE MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 The Company falls outside the scope of the Modern Slavery Act and is therefore not required to make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS The Company is a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code, which enshrines a 30 day payment term as a norm.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The directors confirm that so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO DTR4 The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable to the UK and Republic of Ireland and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Company.
The annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are willing to continue in office and in accordance with sections 489 and 491 1 of the Companies Act 2006 resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
By order of the board Julian Cazalet Chairman 19 February 2019
