Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 32 GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STATUS PERFORMANCE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Company is an investment company within the meaning KPIs of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
At each board meeting, the directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the year ended 31 December 2017, subject to matters that the Company over time are established industry measures may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue & and are as follows: Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the directors the Company has subsequently conducted its the movement in net asset value per ordinary share affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
compared to the comparative indices: the movement in the share price: OBJECTIVE the discount: and The Companys objective is described on page 2 Policy and Objective.
INVESTMENT POLICY STRATEGY A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 27 While the policy is global investment in smaller quoted to 29. companies in TMT, the approach is to construct a diversified portfolio through the identification of individual companies The Company makes reference in this annual report and which offer long term growth potential, typically over a five financial statements to a number of alternative performance year horizon or more.
The portfolio is actively managed and measures, as described on page 72. does not seek to track any comparative index.
With a remit to invest in smaller companies with market capitalisation SHARE CAPITAL generally below $3bn, there tends to be a correlation with At 31 December 2018 the Companys capital structure the performance of smaller companies, as well as those of consisted of 68,901,568 ordinary shares of 25p each the technology sector.
A degree of volatility relative to the 2017 70,307,785 ordinary shares.
During the year overall market should be expected.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding The risk associated with the illiquidity of smaller companies or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are is reduced by generally restricting the stake in any one no special rights attached to any of the shares.
On a winding company to less than 10% of the shares in issue.
up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus A number of investments are in early stage companies, assets would be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion which have a higher stock specific risk but the potential to their shareholdings.
Stock specific risk is reduced by having a diversified portfolio of over 250 holdings.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS In addition, to contain the risk of any one holding, the The Company does not currently have any exposure to manager generally takes profits when a holding reaches derivative instruments.
more than 5% of the portfolio.
The manager actively manages the exposure within the constraint that illiquid BORROWINGS SEE NOTE 11 OF THE FINANCIAL positions cannot be traded for short term movements.
STATEMENTS The Company has a multi-currency revolving loan The Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of facility with RBS up to 25m, maturing in December gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
2019, under which no drawdowns have been made to date.
The Company had a sterling term From time to time, fixed interest holdings, non-equity or loan facility with RBS of 25m which was repaid at unlisted investments may be held on an opportunistic basis.
the expiry of its term on 29 December 2017.
The Company recognises the long term advantages of REVIEW OF THE YEAR AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS gearing and has a maximum gearing limit of 50% of net A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained assets.
Borrowings are invested primarily in equity markets in the chairmans statement and the investment managers but the manager is entitled to invest in other securities in the report on pages 8 to 14. companies in the target areas when it is considered that the investment grounds merit the Company taking a geared BREXIT position.
The boards intention is to gear the portfolio when The board believes that the UKs decision to leave the EU appropriate.
Gearing levels are monitored closely by the will not present a threat to the Companys business model, manager and reviewed by directors at each board meeting.
its viability statement or its ability to continue producing accounts on a going concern basis.
The UK is a world The Company may use derivatives which will be principally, leader in the development and delivery of in particular but not exclusively, for the purpose of efficient portfolio innovative technological solutions and the board sees no management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring reason why this should change once the UK has left the EU.
or eliminating investment risk in its investments, including protection against currency risk.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 20 to 26 and in the investment managers report.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 33 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES VIABILITY STATEMENT The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities The UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules and principal risks to the success of the business model are require that the Company should publish a longer-term therefore market related and include market risk comprising statement on the viability of the Company.
The directors currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity consider that three years is an appropriate forward risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks which looking time period.
This recognises the Companys have been subject to robust assessment by the directors current position, the investment strategy, which includes and how they are managed is contained in note 18 to the investment in smaller companies and start-ups where a accounts on pages 62 to 67, and a description of the internal three year horizon is a meaningful period over which to controls operated by the Company is on pages 37 and 38. judge prospects, the boards assessment of the main risks that threaten the business model and the relatively fast Other risks to the Companys model, future performance, moving nature of the sectors in which the Company invests.
solvency or liquidity include the following: The directors confirm that, based on reviews conducted as Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and part of the detailed internal controls and risk management regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the processes set out on pages 37 and 38, they have a Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties by the reasonable expectation that the Company will continue UKLA or a qualified audit report.
Breach of the Corporation to maintain its status as an investment trust, to implement Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax its investment strategy and to operate and be able to meet on capital gains.
The manager, depositary and administrator its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next three provide regular reports to the audit committee on their financial years.
Their consideration also takes into account monitoring programmes.
The manager monitors investment the Companys gearing and financing arrangements and positions and the manager and company secretary its projected income and expenditure.
monitor the level of forecast income and expenditure.
There are no current plans to amend the investment Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate strategy, which has delivered good investment performance compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances for shareholders over many years and, the directors believe, representation would be made to seek to ensure that special should continue to do so.
The investment strategy and its circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
associated risks are kept under constant review by the board.
Operational financial custody risk failure of the By definition, investment in smaller and start-up companies administrators accounting systems or those of other third carries higher risks, both in terms of stock liquidity and party service providers could lead to an inability to provide longer-term business viability and this risk is accepted accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation by the board.
In addition, it should be noted that under of assets.
The manager, administrator and company the Companys articles of association, shareholders are secretary each have comprehensive business continuity required to vote triennially on whether the Company plans which facilitate continued operation of the business should continue as an investment trust, so the longerin the event of a service disruption or major disruption.
term viability statement is contingent upon shareholders The audit committee receives the administrators report voting to support any continuation vote falling within on internal controls and the reports by other key third the relevant three year period.
The next continuation party providers are reviewed by the manager and company vote will be at the AGM on 16 April 2019.
The directors secretary on behalf of the audit committee.
The depositary strongly support the Companys continuation.
They reports six monthly on custody matters, including the recommend that shareholders should vote in favour continued safe custody of the Companys assets.
of continuation and believe that they will do so.
Discount volatility the discount at which the Companys EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES, GENDER shares trade can widen.
The board monitors the level of The Company has no employees.
Its board is made up of six discount and the Company has authority to buy back its directors, five males and one female.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social Gearing risk the Company may borrow money for or community responsibilities.
However, the Company investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
environmental, social and governance factors when If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under the section on stewardship later in this report.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the board and gearing levels are discussed by the board and manager at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 34 GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, STRATEGY STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBILITIES AS AN IMPLEMENTATION AND ADMINISTRATION INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The management of the Company and the The Company has given discretionary voting powers to implementation of its investment strategy is contracted the investment manager, HIML.
The manager votes against to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML.
resolutions it considers may damage shareholders rights or HIML is authorised and regulated by the Financial economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in the Conduct Authority both for investment management shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and and as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager see governance ESG factors when selecting and retaining regulatory compliance in the directors report.
investments and has asked the manager to take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are not The management contract is subject to 12 months notice compromised.
The manager does not exclude companies by either party.
The senior director of HIML with prime from its investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG responsibility for the management of the Companys issues but adopts a positive engagement approach whereby portfolio is Katie Potts, who is also a substantial shareholder matters are discussed with management with the aim of of HIML Holdings Limited, the parent company of HIML.
improving the relevant policies and management systems HIML is remunerated at an annual rate of 1.0% of the and enabling the manager to consider how ESG factors Companys net asset value calculated using middle market could impact long term investment returns.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can of this 12 month period if termination were to occur sooner.
be found on the managers website at www.
Careful consideration has been given by the board as to the The managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by basis on which the management fee is charged.
considers that maintaining an appropriate level of ongoing charges for a specialist trust is in the best interest of all DIVIDENDS shareholders.
The board is also of the view that calculating The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to Interim dividends are determined by the directors and final exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
dividends are subject to shareholder approval.
The directors At 31 December 2018, Katie Potts held 447,184 of the do not recommend a dividend for the period under review.
By order of the board At 31 December 2018, the Company was the beneficial owner of 15.4% of the ordinary share capital of HIML Julian Cazalet Holdings Limited.
Chairman 19 February 2019 Administration of the Company and its investments has been delegated by HIML to The Bank of New York Mellon BNYM and company secretarial duties have been delegated to Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited.
The board considers the investment management and secretarial arrangements for the Company on a continuing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the board and the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with shareholders.
Following the most recent review the board is of the opinion that the continued appointment of HIML as investment manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders due to the experience of the manager and the quality of information provided to the board.
