Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 35 DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES JULIAN CAZALET IAN RUSSELL Julian Cazalet was appointed to the board in 2008 and Ian Russell was appointed to the board in August 2018. became chairman in 2009.
He was managing director He qualified as a chartered accountant, moving on to work in corporate finance at JPMorgan Cazenove until his a number of finance roles in industry and banking.
He joined retirement in December 2007.
A chartered accountant, he Scottish Power plc in 1994, initially as Finance Director, joined Cazenove in 1973 and was made a partner in 1978. becoming CEO in 2001, a role he held until 2006.
Since then, From 1989 he worked in corporate finance and advised he has concentrated on non-executive roles.
Currently he investment trusts in addition to his work with industrial and is Chairman of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited and commercial companies.
He is chairman of The Lindsell Train Chair of the Scottish Futures Trust Limited, an independent Investment Trust plc and a director of Deltex Medical Group company established by the Scottish Government with a plc and a number of charitable trusts.
Julian will be retiring responsibility for delivering value for money across public as a director and chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on sector infrastructure investment.
Subject to his election by 16 April 2019. shareholders at the AGM on 16 April 2019, Ian will succeed Julian Cazalet as chairman of the Company.
TOM BLACK Tom Black was appointed to the board in 2013.
He is KARL STERNBERG chairman of Thruvision Group plc formerly Digital Barriers Karl Sternberg was appointed to the board in 2015.
He was plc, and is a non-executive director of Adept4 plc.
a founding partner of Oxford Investment Partners Limited He also has advisory roles with a number of smaller from 2006 until 2013, when it was acquired by Towers unlisted businesses and sits on the strategy advisory group Watson.
Much of his earlier career was spent at Morgan of Wolfson College Oxford.
He is chairman and trustee Grenfell which became Deutsche Asset Management, of the Black Family Charitable Trust, which is focused where he rose to become chief investment officer, Europe & on supporting disadvantaged young people with their Asia Pacific.
Karl is a non-executive director of Clipstone educational needs.
He was previously chief executive of Logistics REIT plc, Monks Investment Trust plc, Lowland Detica Plc, a leading company in the field of large-scale Investment Company plc, Alliance Trust plc, JP Morgan Elect information collection and analysis for intelligence and counter plc, Island House Investment LLP, Jupiter Fund Management fraud applications.
Tom is the senior independent director.
STEPHANIE EASTMENT JAMES WILL Stephanie Eastment was appointed to the board in James Will was appointed to the board in 2015.
He was December 2018 and is chair of the audit committee.
until 2014 chairman and a senior corporate finance partner She qualified as a chartered accountant, moving on of law firm Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP.
He also headed to hold various accounting and compliance roles the law firms financial sector practice.
Over the last 20 years at Wardley and UBS before joining Invesco Asset he has been involved in advising smaller quoted technology Management in 1996.
When she left Invesco in July companies on a range of corporate transactions, including 2018, she was Head of Specialist Funds Company flotations, secondary fundraisings and mergers and Secretariat and Accounts.
James is chairman of The Scottish Investment director and audit chair of Murray Income Trust plc.
Trust PLC, and a non-executive director of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
