Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 10 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT The technology sector offers exciting emerging companies TAKEOVERS STERLING, MILLIONS KATIE POTTS FUND MANAGER 100 80 In 2018 we were intent on maintaining 60 cash and even accumulating higher cash 40 levels.
This was helpful in the fourth quarter when there was a correction, 20 which led to a decline in net assets per 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 share of 4.9%.
We are beginning to believe that cash may be a drag moving forwards, albeit there remain some PLACINGS AND IPOs macro imponderables.
The intention is STERLING, MILLIONS to slowly reinvest as opportunities arise, 100 and to maintain the borrowing facility in 80 case a good buying opportunity emerges.
60 40 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 AIM HOLDINGS STERLING, MILLIONS 450 360 270 180 90 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 11 There has been a wide divergence in performance between Interestingly IBM was the legacy mainframe computer stocks.
A few have disappointed at the trading level, while company that survived the move to client server PC based others have just been fide-rated.
The subset of the technology computing, but is now floundering.
Microsoft and Intel were sector that has experienced downgrades has mainly been the winners in the PC world.
Microsoft has conspicuously exposed to volume markets, such as mobile phones and succeeded in being the legacy PC company to survive the automotive.
This has hit the semiconductor sector in transition to the datacentre world.
The jury is out on Intel, particular where increases in capacity combined with only because its near monopoly position in microprocessors lower growth in demand have led to price cuts and margin for PCs and servers is now being challenged by AMD and pressure.
This has affected holdings such as IQE and BE GPUs, and it is being squeezed by the supermarket buying Semiconductor Industries, both of which performed power of the big four datacentre companies.
We had reduced our positions, but not enough.
However, the appeal of the Furthermore, with the growth in server applications powerful sector is that it is not homogeneous, and in all markets, computing can be accessed on battery powered phones there are some that grow.
For most of our holdings there and tablets, which do not use X86 architecture, but are ARM has been no discernible weakness versus expectations.
The companies mentioned here are all larger than this Companys small capitalisation remit, but they are The US economy, and consequently the global economy, hugely relevant to the small company world.
The ability has benefited from tax cuts which have provided a tailwind to rent scalable processing power, storage and software to corporate profits.
However, this has been offset by the is collapsing the cost, and more importantly the capital Federal Reserve moving towards normalising interest rates, requirements for small companies.
We see this as a driver which the market worried about in the fourth quarter.
to global economic growth akin to collapsing oil prices.
This, as much as the tariff war, has spooked the markets.
Of concern is that the UK has hardly started to normalise It is only in the last few years that the consumer, the enterprise interest rates with the Bank of England fearful over slowing and Government have all been networked, and soon vehicles the economy around Brexit uncertainty.
The housing market will be too.
The network roll-out for higher speeds continues already recognises that easy money will not endure forever.
The applications used on the network are However, the macroeconomic environment is less relevant far from mature.
Faster, cheaper processing power is enabling to the technology sector than almost all others.
We continue artificial intelligence to be used commercially, which will to be in an exciting phase where companies have to adapt or have further profound disruptive effects.
In addition, cybersecurity, data protection GDPR and regulation all require compulsory expenditure UK for Governments and businesses alike.
The UK portfolio declined 8.7% on a total return basis.
The two worst performing stocks were IQE and Bango, which last year Technology disruption is also seeing winners and losers within were the best.
In 2017 IQE appreciated 29.8m and in 2018 it the sector.
The legacy companies are evident IBM, HP, declined 11.5m.
Fortunately, we had been aggressively taking Oracle, Blackberry to name a few.
In particular, processing profits on rising prices so that during 2017 we had realised cash power and storage is migrating to the big datacentre of 19.2m and profits of 15.3m, and a further 5.1m of cash companies dominated by Amazon Web Services and Microsoft and 3.8m of profit in the first quarter of 2018 in 27 separate Azure, followed by Google and Alibaba.
These companies are trades, albeit offset by an investment of 2.9m to support disintermediating the branded companies such as HP and IBM.
the fundraising to ensure they could invest in additional capital equipment for demand expected from Apple.
There was a twenty-year period when food retailers outperformed food manufacturers as powerful buying The level of expected demand from Apple has reduced, chains squeezed manufacturers margins compared to the however, and so has IQEs share price.
The business remains weaker buying power of the corner shop.
This is happening the world leader in manufacturing compound semiconductor in computer infrastructure.
For Waitrose see Microsoft, wafers, and now has a strong balance sheet.
These wafers will for Tesco see Amazon Web Services and for Aldi see Alibaba?
The total assets figure comprises assets less current liabilities.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 12 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED and we expect the demand for VCSELs, which are used in the There were several IPOs that we were prepared to participate iPhones facial recognition product, to grow albeit at a slower in towards the end of the year, but there were insufficient rate now that Apple has demonstrated that the market for co-investors.
On the other hand, we did not participate in the 1,000 smartphones is more limited than hoped.
Avast IPO because it exceeded our size threshold of $3bn market capitalisation, but it subsequently fell sufficiently, and As a user I am a convert to the belief that facial recognition we were pleased to take the opportunity to acquire a stake.
will be more widely adopted, but the overall phone price must lower, and it will do so as component prices such as We remain committed to AIM but have purposefully reduced DRAM fall.
As an investor focussed on smaller companies the weighting in the portfolio from a high of 44% of the in the supply chain of large companies such as Apple, it is Companys net assets at the end of 2017 to 35% at the end of evident that it is brutally tough in requiring the supply chain 2018.
The attraction is that there are some dynamic companies, to build capacity in excess of any potential demand, and and new ones continue to appear, but our caution emanates then subsequently has the whip hand on pricing.
from the withdrawal of so many institutional investors.
Index tracking funds are growing but do not invest in small Bango appreciated 15.4m in 2017, and fell 13.7m in 2018. companies and, in particular, they do not make the capital Unfortunately, we were not as successful at taking profits allocation decisions in order to provide primary funding of realising only 0.5m.
The shares were too high, but there companies requiring capital, which is an important raison detre were not willing buyers.
It is a microcap company with for public markets, and requires judgment and not machines.
only two customers of significance Google and Amazon, but very valuable ones they are.
We are proud of the fact that we have invested 417m since the Companys inception in primary capital in the UK, and an The potential scale of those players makes it difficult to additional sum of 52m overseas, to provide development value.
We were surprised by how strong both shares were, capital which is about 5x the outside capital ever raised by but in IQEs case there was massive private client buying.
the Company, so capital has been productively recycled.
Not only did that enable us to sell shares too expensively, The market has become too dependent on marginal buying but it concerned us that a new phenomenon became more from private clients, some of which is speculative and some evident that of private client buying influenced by internet IHT exemption driven.
Liquidity is an issue: fund managers chat boards.
This buying was not across the board but very of scale cannot get adequately sized positions, particularly stock specific.
But private investor demand of this nature, when coping with cash inflows and outflows.
This has led combined with the disappearance of the institutional to takeovers exceeding new issues, and shrinking the investor, had made us cautious for the market overall.
There were also some positive returns.
There were five stocks The other cloud that has made us so cautious and led to us that appreciated in excess of 100% collectively returning 10m.
withdrawing money from the UK is the unknown effects of Two of these were struggling companies where the return the numerous regulatory changes.
In 2018 sales from the UK came from the takeover premium.
In both cases, Lombard exceeded purchases by 60m.
The exercise stimulated me Risk and Earthport, we were losing faith in managements to consider the long term cash flows, and overall sales in the ability to deliver, and were happy to see them go.
UK portfolio exceed purchases by 167m from inception in 1994, with a market value of 468m at the year end.
In addition, Elektron, Brave Bison and Versarien rose 145%, 144% and 121% respectively.
In terms of materiality Versarien NORTH AMERICA is the most relevant.
It appreciated 4.5m during the year.
The North American total return in sterling terms was 11.7% We have significantly reduced the position having started to versus the Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index sell in 2017, and have now realised 9.5m in cash and 8.2m in sterling terms return of 4.7%, and the NASDAQ return in gains.
The company has a graphene product, and an of 3.1% in sterling terms.
At one point in the year the return energetic entrepreneurial management team, but again exceeded 30%, so the fourth quarter correction was as private clients have elevated the price to a level that we vicious as any region but North America had performed could not resist selling.
The US is a particularly momentum driven market with gyrations more extreme than elsewhere.
Craneware appreciated 6.4m with an encouraging rise in Nevertheless, the outcome is satisfactory.
This has been a good long term performer but after upgrades at over 30 per share we We were net sellers in the UK, and we were also net sellers in were torn between wanting to own the shares long term, North America by 13m in 2018 and by 44m over the last and worrying about the valuation being ahead of itself.
This reflects in part takeovers of 27m in North We sold a little, but the market has resolved the issue with America in 2018, 61m over the last three years and 131m the share price markedly correcting in the fourth quarter.
over the last six years, which is material in relation to a portfolio valued at 218m at the year-end.
ZOO was a star performer in 2017 and appreciated a further 6.8m in 2018.
When the company was in financial difficulties, This year there have been six takeovers in the North American portfolio, of which the significant ones have been Barracuda, we increased Heralds stake to 20% and provided funds through a convertible loan to provide survival funding.
There have been a healthy number of IPOs in the US.
We have tracked thirty one.
We do not therefore rewarding to have been able to reduce our holding materially towards a more normal percentage ownership normally participate in NASDAQ IPOs led by the global players, because we are irrelevantly small clients, and get withdrawing 4.6m, and still having a material unrealised gain.
BATM has been a sleeper for a while, but has an exciting ARM poor allocations in hot IPOs and filled in the difficult ones, and prefer to look in the aftermarket.
We do however want a based networking solution so appreciated 80% and 4.9m.
vibrant public market, and remain frustrated that institutional Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 13 SECTOR PERFORMANCE STERLING, MILLIONS Market value % of equity Total return Total return equity portfolio portfolio equity portfolio equity portfolio 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Software 227.7 29.0 29.8 45.2 Computer Services 88.1 11.2 -8.8 38.8 Semiconductors 86.0 11.0 -39.4 56.9 Media Agencies 65.9 8.4 -16.1 20.3 Telecommunications Equipment 47.3 6.0 4.9 -0.4 Internet 41.8 5.3 -13.9 24.2 Publishing 39.6 5.0 -0.4 3.7 Electrical Components & Equipment 30.9 3.9 3.3 4.5 Fixed Line Telecommunications 17.1 2.2 5.2 0.7 Business Support Services 14.7 1.9 0.1 -4.1 Computer Hardware 13.0 1.7 -3.0 0.3 Other 112.8 14.4 -4.7 27.1 Total 784.9 100.0 -43.0 217.2 cash flows continue to move in the direction of private equity, and their valuations seem higher than public ones.
We prefer to be in the cheaper market, but do not want the move to private equity and tracking funds to strangle markets to death.
The star performer of the year was Attunity, which appreciated 199% during the year, from a good-sized position, so the The North American appreciation was 10.2m.
We acquired a small position in 2014, and bought some more in 2015, but the shares portfolio was strong in 2018 languished although regular meetings with the company reassured that underlying progress was better than the share having lagged other regions price.
When they had a secondary offering in December 2017 we were the cornerstone of a $23m fund raising, investing $4.75m in a share issue that was a struggle.
Value is more evident in the smaller companies with offerings made by smaller brokers.
We are better networked KATIE POTTS, FUND MANAGER into these brokers following the opening of our New York office three years ago.
Alteryx and ACM Research appreciated 149% and 120% respectively.
Alteryxs IPO was in 2017, but we invested six months after the IPO following a meeting with management at which we were impressed.
We did participate in the IPO of ACM Research from a smaller broker.
In both cases the position was small because we are always resistant to committing large amounts of capital until we have got to know the company and its management over a period of time.
By value Five9, Mellanox, Fabrinet and LivePerson were all strong contributors.
The smaller brokers in the US were hit by Sarbanes Oxley, which raised the cost for a small company to be public, and the fact that venture capital is providing follow on rounds to a much later stage.
The latest twist is MiFID, which has hit them hard.
Although MiFID has not been implemented globally, some of the large multinational players are applying the same rules.
It is evident that some of the technology boutiques important to us have been hit hard.
As in the UK it is difficult to know quite how great the pain is, because nobody wants to say they are losing for obvious reasons, but the number of quality individuals choosing to leave the industry, and the continuing drift of lay-offs, tells its own story.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 14 INVESTMENT REPORT INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Tracker funds are even more significant in the US market but EMEA do not make the investment judgement required for investing The European element of the portfolio has always been small, in IPOs.
It was interesting to see Spotify come to the market but over the long term has performed well.
Unfortunately, this by way of an introduction without the expense of fund raising year has been challenging.
BE Semiconductor has provided fees to investment bankers, because venture capital had a total return of 17.4m and remained the biggest holding in provided sufficient capital, and index trackers can provide the portfolio at the start of 2018, but in 2018 the return was an exit.
The price has subsequently performed poorly.
However, the position had been significantly reduced with 17.4m cash and 7.8m profit already realised on ASIA share sales by the beginning of April 2018, which significantly The Asian portfolio declined 11.2% IRR, total return in reduced the damage.
BE Semiconductor is an extremely sterling terms.
In comparison, the Kosdaq IT Index in Korea well-managed company, but is a capital equipment supplier declined 22.8% and the larger company TWSE Electronics to a cyclical semiconductor industry.
There was a major Index in Taiwan declined 6.8%.
Generally, the Asian indices cancellation of an order believed to be in excess of $20m across the region had a difficult year, with some of the from Apple, but that is the nature of the sector.
The stock smaller companies indices particularly impacted, for instance accounted for a third of the European portfolio at the start the Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers Index being amongst of the year, and declined 42%.
The best performing stock in the year was Link Mobility, which In the first half the momentum in Asian stock markets benefited from a takeover by private equity.
Management are remained very strong, continuing the trend from the prior staying with the business, but believe funding for acquisitions year.
Globally, monetary policy remains loose with interest will be easier to find through private equity owners.
The private rates very low.
In this environment any areas where there equity power has even extended to this Norwegian company.
was good newsflow proved irresistible, and there was a great deal of excitement amongst retail technology investors.
OUTLOOK This was most clearly illustrated by the euphoria particularly Several references have been made to regulatory changes.
widespread in Asia that surrounded Bitcoin which peaked Metaphorically this is what keeps me awake at night, not the close to 18,000 in December 2017, but then collapsed to quality of the portfolio, not the US China trade war, not lows near to 3,000.
Brexit, not politics, but the trends in public markets.
Asian technology companies in general were highly sought If recent trends persist then quoted markets, for small after with great excitement in the press regarding concepts companies anyway, will cease to exist.
The private investor such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine will be marginalised, and private equity will own everything.
learning, robotics, autonomous vehicles and 3D machine We discuss this challenge ad nauseum.
We believe that the continuing advances in computing tells me the darkest hour is always just before dawn.
power, sensing and networking are increasing the opportunity for technology to become ubiquitous and alter the working Asset allocators will realise that P-E valuations have become and leisure environment for a growing proportion of the too high and their returns will deteriorate, and that there might worlds population.
be volatility in public markets but at least there is liquidity and regulated public scrutiny.
They will become forced sellers, However, at the end of the first half the excitement had and public market investors will get bargains.
Remember clearly run ahead of the reality and markets were vulnerable hedge funds were flavour of the month at one time.
to bad news this was duly delivered in the form of the accelerating US-China trade war, fears of monetary policy The market will adapt to regulatory changes and realise tightening, softer demand for smartphones, pcs and servers commissions or spreads have to be higher, so that the and weakness in semiconductor prices particularly market can function again and provide liquidity and provide memory.
Given the hardware skew and cyclical nature of capital for companies.
The regulator will realise that it has the Asia technology sector, the business models of Asian heaped too much cost throughout the chain of financial technology companies were particularly vulnerable.
advisors, fund managers and brokers at the expense of the poor old private investor that they are trying to protect and The worst performing stocks within the Asian portfolio were become more practical.
generally semiconductor companies or capital equipment suppliers to semiconductor companies, for example Wonik IPS, We can but hope.
RichWave Technology, Eugene Technology, PSK and Innox saw declines of between 38-54%.
The better performing names Nevertheless, we are considering allocating a small portion came from a broader range of business models including of the portfolio to private companies because we are aware software, hosting, payment and internet platforms with four the market is changing and want to ensure access to the holdings rising over 50%, the best being Bravura an Australian best opportunities.
financial software company up over 110%.
There has been a deliberate effort to diversify the portfolio from an over reliance The good news is that you can make money out of shrinking on the volatile hardware business models prevalent in Korea markets, as has been demonstrated in this fund over the last and Taiwan with an increased emphasis on unearthing new decade if not the last year.
Most importantly of all, the sector continues to offer exciting emerging companies.
It is evident opportunities in other markets such as Australia and Japan.
to all how pervasive technology change is for the consumer, corporates and Governments alike.
