Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Rationale and business model The Board has a clear view of the rationale for investing in unquoted businesses 15 15 where there is the potential for accelerating the growth in value through a private equity approach.
This informs its decisions on the operation of the Company and the evolution of the Companys Business Model.
Rationale Further detail on these is provided in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 to 13.
The Board believes that there is a convincing rationale for directly investing in wellresearched private businesses where The Board has a further objective of keeping the Company there is potential for substantial growth in value, especially as fully invested as is practical, while ensuring that it will where there is the ability to work with management to have the necessary cash available when a new investment implement strategic or operational improvements.
The Board, on the advice of the Manager, makes assumptions about the rate of deployment of funds into By taking on the burdens of administration, monitoring new investments and the timing and value of realisations.
and accounting that such investments require, the However, to mitigate the risk of being unable to fund any Company offers a simple and liquid means by which drawdown under its commitments to invest, the Board shareholders can achieve an investment in unquoted has negotiated a right to opt out, without penalty, of its growth companies, monitored by an independent Board.
obligation to fund such drawdowns where certain Business model conditions exist.
To achieve the Companys Investment Objective and within The Company may also take up a coinvestment in the limits set by the Investment Policy, the Company is a some businesses in addition to the investment it has direct investor in unquoted businesses managed, and in committed to make.
most cases controlled, by the Manager.
From time to time, The Company has no liability to pay fees on such the Company may hold listed securities in pursuit of its coinvestment and no carried interest incentive is Investment Policy.
payable to the Manager on realisation currently 14% of The Company is currently invested in 30 companies as set the Companys NAV is in coinvestments.
The Company out on page 48 of these Accounts, ranging in size, sector may also offer to acquire a limited partnership interest in and geography, providing diversification.
any of Hgs funds, in the event that an institutional investor wishes to realise its partnership interest.
The Board has delegated the management of the Companys investments to Hg Pooled Management Limited The Board regularly monitors progress in all the businesses the Manager or Hg.
Further details of the terms of the in which it is invested, and their valuation: the development management agreement are set out on page 106 of this of the Managers investment strategy: the resources and Report.
The Manager invests predominantly in unquoted sustainability of the business model.
technology and service businesses in expanding sectors and Investment trust status provides portfolio management support.
Hgs review on As the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock pages 19 to 72 of this Report outlines how the Companys Exchange, it can take advantage of tax benefits available investments are managed on behalf of the Company.
This allows the Company to realise Most of the Companys investments are held through special businesses from its portfolio without liability to corporation purpose partnerships, of which it is the sole limited partner.
The Board intends to retain this status so long as it is in shareholders interest to do so.
This will require the Board Periodically, the Company enters into a formal commitment to invest in businesses identified by the Manager, alongside to declare dividends so that not more than 15% of taxable income is retained each year.
institutional investors who invest in a Hg Limited Partnership Fund.
Such commitments are normally drawn Performance targets down over three to four years.
The institutional investors The Companys aim is to achieve returns in excess of the and the Company invest on substantially identical terms.
FTSE AllShare Index over the longterm.
To this end, the The Company is usually the largest investor in each Board monitors the Key Performance Indicators, as set business.
Following the 2016 commitment to invest out on pages 5 and 6 of these Accounts.
In the year to 350 million alongside the Hg8 Fund, in 2017 the Board 31 December 2018, the Companys NAV per share committed a further 80 million with respect to the increased by 14.3% on a total return basis.
In comparison, Hg Mercury 2 Fund.
In early 2018, the Board made a the FTSE AllShare Index decreased by 9.5% on a total 75 million commitment to invest in Transition Capital return basis.
The twelve month total return of the and 150 million to invest alongside the Hg Saturn Fund.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic report Rationale and business model continued NAV per share has grown by 11.7% p. a. compound over the In addition, note 19 to the financial statements describes 16 16 last ten years and 13.8% p. a. compound over the last twenty the Companys objectives, policies and processes for years.
The share price has seen broadly similar performance managing its capital: its financial risk management growing by 13.6% p. a. compound over the last ten years objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging and 14.5% p. a. compound over the last twenty years.
activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors have considered the FRC Guidance on Risk All of the above returns assume the reinvestment of all Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and historical dividends.
The Board and the Manager aim Business Reporting and believe that the Company is well to continue to achieve consistent, longterm returns in placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Directors review cash flow projections regularly, including The Company is not managed so as to reflect shortterm important assumptions as to future realisations and the movements in any Index.
The Board also regularly compares rate at which funds will be deployed into new investments.
the Companys NAV and share price performance against The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the a basket of broadly comparable companies with similar Company will have adequate resources to continue in characteristics, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
operational existence for at least the next twelvemonth period from the date of this Report and be able to meet its Dividends outstanding commitments.
Accordingly, they continue to In 2017, the Board announced that it anticipated that future adopt the going concern basis in preparing these results.
dividends would be no less than 46.0 pence per share and that these would be split between an interim distribution Principal risks and uncertainties made in or around October, and a final distribution made During the period under review, the Board has carried out in or around April.
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Where possible, the Trust has elected to stream its Company and the controls in place to mitigate them, income from interestbearing investments as dividends including those that would threaten its business model, for tax efficiency purposes.
More details can be found future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This process on page 126. involves the maintenance of a risk register, which identifies the risks facing the Company and assesses each risk and Going concern classifies the likelihood of the risk and the potential impact The Companys business activities, together with the of each risk on the Company.
factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position are described in the Boards Strategic The Board has established controls to mitigate against risk Report and Hgs Review.
The financial position of the faced by the Company.
The Audit and Valuation Committee Company, its cash flows, liquidity and borrowing facilities regularly reviews these policies for managing each risk, as are described in the Strategic Report.
summarised on the following pages.
Longterm viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the twelve months required by the Going Concern test.
The Board believes that the appropriate period over which to assess the Companys viability may vary from year to year, depending on a number of factors, notably its outstanding investment commitments, which currently run until 20212022.
In addition, the Board believes that it should assess the viability of the Company over a minimum of five years and, accordingly, has elected this year to assess the Companys viability over the fiveyear period ending December 2023.
In their assessment, the Directors have considered the Companys position with reference to the business model, the balance sheet, cash flow projections, availability of funding and the Companys contractual commitments.
This has been undertaken alongside a detailed review of the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Company, including: performance: regulatory: operational: financial: liquidity: and borrowing, as detailed on pages 17 and 18 of the Strategic Report.
The Directors recognise the importance of its close working relationship with the Manager and regularly monitor and review Hgs strategy, resources, risks and associated internal controls.
Based on this assessment, the Directors of the Company confirm that they expect the Company will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, during the five years ending December 2023.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Rationale and business model continued Performance rates of return to shareholders.
Hg acquires businesses 17 17 with the benefit of bank borrowing at levels that can be An inappropriate investment strategy might lead to poor serviced from the cash flows generated within that performance.
The Board is responsible for deciding the business.
The Board does not currently see any advantage Investment Policy to fulfil the Companys objectives and for in using a further level of longterm borrowing by the monitoring the Managers performance in carrying it out.
Company, as this would add risk without any certainty To help manage this risk, the Manager provides an of enhancing returns, but anticipates making tactical explanation of all investment decisions and the rationale use of bank borrowing from time to time, in order to for their selection of sectors and businesses.
It also remain more fully invested across the investment monitors and maintains an adequate spread of realisation cycle.
investments, within the risk controls set out in the Companys Investment Policy, in order to manage the risks The Board keeps the management of the Companys associated with particular countries or factors specific to resources under frequent review and regularly considers particular sectors.
longterm cash flow projections for the Company.
The Company has arranged a committed facility on an Liquidity unsecured basis with Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc The Company predominantly invests in unquoted of 80 million to provide funds for investment when companies: liquidity in their securities can be constrained, necessary: this is available until 30 June 2022 with the potentially making the investments difficult to realise at, option of adding a further 80 million via an accordion or near, the Directors published valuation at any one point facility, subject to the banks agreement at the time.
The Manager has regard to the liquidity of the The facility was not utilised during the year and remained portfolio when making investment decisions, and the undrawn at 31 December 2018.
The Directors believe the Company manages its liquid resources to ensure sufficient borrowing facility gives the Board further flexibility in cash is available to meet its contractual commitments.
managing the Companys resources, without adding In the event that, after providing for necessary expenditure, undue risk.
the Company will have insufficient cash resources to fund a new investment, an optout provision has been negotiated Operational in connection with the Companys commitment to invest The Company has no employees and relies upon the alongside Hg8, Hg Mercury 2, Hg Saturn and in Transition services provided by third parties, notably Hg to which Capital.
This permits the Company to opt out of its the principal managerial functions have been delegated.
obligation to fund a drawdown for certain liquidity or The Company is dependent upon the internal control regulatory reasons, in particular, if to do so would result in systems of the Manager and the Companys other service the Company i not having the cash resources to meet any providers.
The security of the Companys assets, dealing of its liabilities, expenses or obligations to fund its procedures, accounting records and maintenance of commitments to other funds or investment vehicles of Hg regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the effective that are reasonably likely to become due within 12 months operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and or ii not being able to undertake any share buyback, in monitored and an internal control report, which includes a each case subject to certain conditions.
These provisions robust assessment of risks, together with procedures to help the Company to manage the risks associated with mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Manager and overcommitment.
reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Valuation At certain points in the investment cycle, the Company may Committee twice each year.
hold substantial amounts of cash awaiting investment, The Company is also an Alternative Investment Fund AIF which it may invest in government or corporate securities, for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund or in bank deposits or managed funds.
To this end, the Managers Directive Directive 2011 61 EU AIFMD Company is invested in Royal London Asset Management and Hg Pooled Management Limited has been appointed Cash Funds.
This deploys funds awaiting investment in a as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM for highly liquid portfolio of cash, deposits, money market the purposes of the AIFMD.
instruments and shortdated government securities.
The Board has considered an Assurance Report on Internal Borrowing Controls AAF 01 06 as prepared by the Manager, and The Board and the Manager agree that prudent use of independently reviewed by Deloitte LLP, for the year ended borrowing to fund investments can allow the Company to 31 December 2017.
The Board will consider the 2018 hold a larger and more diversified portfolio and increase Assurance Report when issued later in the year.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic report Rationale and business model continued Regulatory Employees, human rights and community issues 18 18 The Board continues to believe that it is in shareholders The Board recognises the requirement under section interests to retain the tax advantages that flow from 414C of the Companies Act 2006 to provide information meeting the requirements for an investment trust under about employees, human rights and community issues, Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 including information in respect of any policies it has in CTA.
As such, the Company is exempt from corporation relation to these matters and their effectiveness.
These tax on capital gains realised from the sale of its requirements do not apply to the Company as it has no investments, so the impact of losing investment trust status employees, all of the Directors are nonexecutive and it would be significant.
The Board believes the likelihood of has outsourced all its functions to third party providers.
this risk occurring is low.
The Manager monitors investment The Company has therefore not reported further in movements, the level and type of forecast income and respect of these provisions.
expenditure, and the amount of retained income if any Modern Slavery to ensure that the provisions of Sections 1158 and 1159 of The Company has no employees of its own.
The Directors the CTA are not breached.
The Companys compliance with are satisfied that, to the best of their knowledge, the conditions for retaining investment trust status is Hg complies with the provisions of the UK Modern certified by the Manager at each meeting of the Board.
For further information please visit: General changes in legislation, regulation or government https: hgcapital.
com wpcontent themes hgcapital pdf policy could significantly influence the decisions of Slavery.
pdf investors or impact upon the markets in which the Diversity Company invests.
All financial decisions are made under conditions of Financial uncertainty.
The Board recognises the value of both The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety identity and cognitive diversity in ensuring that varied of financial risks that include valuation risk, liquidity risk, perspectives are considered when making decisions.
market price risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and The Board places value on attracting directors with diverse interest rate risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 19 outlooks and experience.
The skills and experience that the to the financial statements, together with a summary of current members of the Board bring to the Companys the policies for managing these risks.
leadership are described on pages 103 to 105.
The Boards policy is to make appointments to the Board to achieve Environmental, Social and Governance Matters the balance of skills, outlook and experience needed, but to do so solely on merit.
At the end of the year under Socially responsible investment review, the Board of Directors of the Company comprised The Board has endorsed Hgs policy to invest the Companys five men and one woman.
The Company seeks to enhance funds in a socially responsible manner, as set out in this diversity and looks for the best qualified male and female Annual Report pages 30 to 32 and on their website at candidates.
The Manager has an equal opportunities www.
The Companys focus is policy and currently employs 86 men and 68 women.
on identifying highquality and sustainable businesses, and Nic Humphries, Senior Partner, Hg, is a member of the Level supporting their growth for the benefit of shareholders 20 Advisory Council, a notforprofit organisation that aims and wider society.
The Board monitors investment activity to inspire more women to join and succeed in the European to ensure they are compatible with these policies.
The Company has no employees and has limited direct impact on the environment.
The Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly and has sought For and on behalf of the Board to ensure that Hgs management of investments takes Roger Mountford account of social, environmental and ethical factors where appropriate.
The sectors in which the Manager invests Chairman of the Board 8 March 2019 do not generally raise material ethical issues.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
