Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Directors report The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts of The Companys Board of Directors HgCapital Trust plc the Company Reg.
1525583 As at the date of this Report, the Board comprises six for the year ended 31 December 2018. nonexecutive Directors, all of whom are considered to be The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this independent.
Jim Strang and Guy Wakeley joined the Board Directors Report.
Information about future developments in March 2018 and Mark Powell retired at the Companys and important events since the year end are included in the AGM in April 2018.
Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 13.
The Board met formally six times during 2018 and on one additional occasion for a Board strategy day.
There is Status of the Company regular contact among the Directors and with Hg between The Company is an investment company, as defined in these meetings.
The Directors also have access to the section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and qualifies as an advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is investment trust under section 1158 and section 1159 of responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has received procedures are followed and that applicable rules and confirmation from HMRC that it has been accepted as an regulations are complied with.
Where necessary, in the approved investment trust with effect from 1 January 2012, furtherance of their duties, the Directors may seek provided it continues to meet the eligibility conditions for independent professional advice at the expense of section 1158 and the ongoing requirements for approved the Company.
companies in the Investment Trust Approved Company The rules concerning the appointment and replacement Tax Regulations 2011. of Directors are contained within the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
Further details Capital structure are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement.
As at 31 December 2018 the Company had 37,324,698 The Articles of Association can be amended by Ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue, with no shares shareholders at a General Meeting.
Each Ordinary share has one voting right In line with the recommendations of the 2019 AIC attached to it.
The total number of voting rights in the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will stand for Company at this date was 37,324,698. reelection at the forthcoming AGM.
Dividend Policy Chairman of the Board Roger Mountford The Board aims to sustain a minimum annual dividend As a managing director in the corporate finance level of 46.0p per Ordinary share, but is mindful of the department of Hambros, a leading merchant bank, Companys objective to achieve longterm growth in Roger Mountford advised a range of listed companies, shareholder value.
The ability to meet these two objectives including the boards of investment trusts on complex depends significantly on income receivable from restructuring and the terms of engagement of their investments and on the level and timing of profitable managers.
He led the banks advisory practice in the realisations to generate sufficient cash and cannot be 10 10 33 private equity market, advising on many transactions, guaranteed.
There will be variations in the amount of providing an understanding of the structure and processes dividends paid year on year.
involved in transactions similar to those in which the Results and dividend Company is involved.
The total return after taxation for the year, was 101,132,000 After retiring from banking he was corporate treasurer 2017: 128,409,000 of which the revenue return was of a global communications company.
He has led 13,665,000 2017: revenue return of 20,043,000. several large pension schemes, gaining experience of institutional asset management, including allocations Following payment of an interim dividend of 16 pence per to private markets.
Ordinary share in October 2018, the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 30 pence per Ordinary He has served for many years on the global advisory board share for the year ended 31 December 2018, making a total of VenCap International, a longestablished investor in of 46 pence 2017: 46 pence.
Subject to the approval of this earlystage venture investment, which provides him with dividend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, insights into emerging technologies and disruptive business it will be paid on 30 April 2019 to shareholders on the register models that inform consideration of the Companys of members at the close of business on 22 March 2019. investments in businesses ready for transformational change.
Roger is also a governmentappointed director of Risk Management and Objectives HS2 Limited and is a member of the Council of the London The Company is subject to various risks in pursuing its School of Economics.
He is aged 70 and has served on the objectives.
The nature of these risks and the controls and Board since 2004. policies in place used to minimise these risks are further detailed in the Strategic Report and in note 19 to the financial statements.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report continued Richard Brooman He also leads on regular reviews of all the Companys other Chairman of the Audit and Valuation Committee service providers.
He continues to be active in institutional fund management Richard Brooman chairs audit and risk committees in a number of companies and charities.
He qualified as a as a member of the investment committees of St Jamess Place plc and the Nuffield Foundation.
Peter also brings chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
He held senior operational and financial positions at Mars, going valuable experience of the investment trust sector as a director of the Murray International Trust plc.
on to be Chief Financial Officer of the global Consumer Healthcare business of SmithKline Beecham.
These roles He is aged 69 and has served as a Director since 2014. gave him comprehensive experience of financial and risk Anne West management in two leading global companies and of both Senior Independent Director acquisitions and disposals of businesses.
Moving to the Anne West joined the Companys Board following a long SME sector, he became Group Finance Director of VCI plc career as an equity investment manager, initially in Hong and subsequently CFO of Sherwood International plc, both Kong.
She spent 23 years at Cazenove Capital Management, midcapitalisation businesses listed on the London Stock one of the UKs largest wealth managers, rising to Chief Exchange: he is currently senior independent director of Investment Officer.
As manager of the investment teams, DiscoverIE Group plc, a listed manufacturer and distributor she was responsible for leading the firms strategy on asset of custom electronic components.
allocation, including diversification into private markets This career provides a strong basis for assessing, and where using listed vehicles such as the Company.
She was also appropriate challenging, the financial and risk management responsible for communication of investment views and framework not only of the Company but also of companies policy to the wealth managers and to clients and across a wide range of industries, including companies in introduced investment risk management tools to portfolio which we are invested.
As Chairman of the Audit and construction.
This experience provides the Board with Valuation Committee, he takes the lead in scrutinising the insights into the decisionmaking processes of many of the valuation of each company in the portfolio prepared by Hg.
Companys shareholders and potential investors.
Richard has long experience in the investment trust sector, Anne brings her experience of investing in emerging notably as Deputy Chairman of the Board, and Chairman of markets, especially in Asia, to the board of The Scottish the Audit & Valuation Committee, of Invesco Perpetual UK Oriental Smaller Companies Trust plc, and to the board of Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Together with his ScotGems plc, a Trust investing in small companies globally.
role as Chairman of this Companys Audit and Valuation She was previously a member of the investment committee Committee, his appointments ensure that he remains well for Oxford University Endowment Management which had briefed about accounting and regulatory issues affecting a large commitment to private equity.
Anne is aged 68 and was appointed to the Board in 2014.
Richard is aged 63 and has served on the Companys Board since 2007.
Jim Strang 10 10 44 Jim currently leads Hamilton Lanes business, covering the Peter Dunscombe EMEA region.
Hamilton Lane is a NASDAQ listed public Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee company and one of the largest investors and allocators of A career in the senior management of major pension funds private capital in the world, investing over 25 billion each provided Peter Dunscombe with long experience of asset year into over 200 private markets transactions.
As one of allocation and investment management in major Hamilton Lanes global Investment Committee members, institutions.
He was joint managing director of Imperial Jim participates in all such investment decisions.
Investments Ltd and the manager of the Imperial Tobacco In his daytoday role, Jim advises a variety of different pension fund.
Following this, he was Head of Pensions investors across the world on how to design, execute and Investments at the BBC Pension Trust, where he was implement their private markets investment strategies to responsible for allocating funds to a variety of private asset meet their stated goals.
He also represents Hamilton Lanes classes, including private equity.
He selected managers and interests on the investor Boards of several of the leading negotiated limited partnership interests in many private private equity managers based in Europe and was recently equity funds, including funds raised by Hg, experience that voted one the top 50 most influential individuals in informs his role as Chairman of the Companys European private equity.
He leads on the Jim has over 15 years of private markets investing Boards annual review of the performance, resources and strategy of Hg, to give the Board assurance that Hg remains experience, both as an investor and as an operator, gained well equipped to act as the Companys Manager.
within a private equity firm based in the UK.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Directors report continued In his career as an operating executive he has served as a He served as a member of the Panel on Takeovers and board member of a number of different businesses, both Mergers and as Chairman of the Association of Private in the UK and Europe.
He has also direct operating Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers now the experience of private equity investment trusts.
As over 40% of the share capital of the Companys shares are held by wealth Prior to his private markets investing career, Jim worked as managers and private investors this experience was of a strategy consultant at Bain and Company based in London great value to the Board in deciding how best to present where he provided a wide range of strategic advice to their the Company, considering the discount or premium at leading corporate clients across Europe.
He also spent which the shares trade, and on setting dividend policy.
significant time advising private equity managers in the Well known in investment markets, he was well placed region on their own business and investment strategies, to rehearse shareholders views at the Board, in his role as well as supporting them on numerous investments.
as the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Jim started his career as a public markets fund manager focusing on UK equities, latterly at Edinburgh Fund Powers of the Board of Directors Managers now part of Aberdeen Standard plc, a role he The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article combined with completing a Doctorate in Finance.
This Article provides that Jim is aged 47 and was appointed to the Board in March 2018. the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company, Guy Wakeley subject to any limitations imposed by applicable legislation, Guy Wakeley is chief executive of Equiniti Group plc, the Articles and any directions given by special resolution the FTSE 250 provider of processing, share dealing and of the shareholders of the Company.
payments platforms and services to the biggest businesses in the UK and the US.
Guy joined the Board of Equiniti in Directors Indemnity January 2014 and led its flotation on the main market of The Company has maintained appropriate directors the London Stock Exchange in October 2015.
He is an FCA liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Approved Person, with control function responsibilities for The Companys Articles of Association take advantage Equinitis regulated functions in the UK, and is President of of statutory provisions to indemnify the Directors against Equinitis US trust company bank.
Guys professional certain liabilities owed to third parties even where such interests lie in the harnessing of technology to transform liability arises from conduct amounting to negligence service delivery, and he has a particular specialism in the or breach of duty or breach of trust.
interplay between financial services, regulation and data In addition, under the terms of appointment of each security.
He brings to the Board relevant and recent Director, the Company has agreed, subject to the experience in international M&A, technology disruption, restrictions and limitations imposed by statute and by and large scale operational leadership and transformation.
the Companys Articles of Association, to indemnify each Guy holds an MA in Engineering Science from the Director against all costs, expenses, losses and liabilities University of Cambridge, and a PhD in applications of 10 10 55 incurred in execution of his or her office as Director or artificial intelligence to engineering design.
He is a otherwise in relation to such office.
Save for such indemnity Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Royal Institution of provisions in the Companys Articles of Association and in Chartered Surveyors, and is a member of the CBIs Public the Directors terms of appointment, there are no Services Strategy Board, promoting the role of business qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
in transforming the UKs public services.
Conflicts of interests Guy is aged 48 and was appointed to the Board in March 2018.
The Directors have declared any conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board, which has the authority Mark Powell to approve such situations.
A Register of the matters so formerly Senior Independent Director approved is maintained and reviewed at each meeting of After serving ten years on the Board, Mark Powell retired the Board.
The Directors advise the Board as soon as they in April 2018. become aware of any conflict of interest.
In the event that He brought extensive experience of the London Stock a Director has a relevant conflict of interest he would not Exchange to the Board.
He spent many years in investment be party to discussions or decisions on the matter on which management and, as Managing Director and later Chairman he or she is conflicted.
The Board can, however, confirm of Rathbone Brothers Plc, led one of the leading wealth that it has not been necessary to exclude any Director from management businesses in the UK serving private clients, the consideration of Board or Committee matters on such charities and smaller institutional investors.
a basis at any time during the year.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report continued Investment management and administration In 2018, the Companys assets were managed by Hg Pooled Management Limited Hg.
The Company pays a priority profit share in respect of either its commitments to or invested capital alongside Hg funds on the same terms as those payable by all institutional investors in these funds as listed below: Fund partnership Priority profit share % p. a. Hg Saturn 1.0% on invested capital commenced 19 March 2018 Transition Capital 1.25% on invested capital commenced 20 September 2018 1.75% on the fund commitment during the investment period Hg8 commenced 1 October 2017, stepping down to 1.5% on invested capital 1.75% on the fund commitment during the investment period Hg Mercury 2 commenced 1 October 2017, stepping down to 1.5% on invested capital 1.5% of original cost of investments in the fund less the original cost of investments Hg7 that have been realised or writtenoff.
1.5% of original cost of investments in the fund less the original cost of investments Hg Mercury 1 that have been realised or writtenoff.
1.5% of original cost of investments in the fund less the original cost of investments Hg6 and Hg6E that have been realised or writtenoff.
HGT 0.5% on the value of investments held in that fund, excluding coinvestments.
Asper RPP II 1.25% of lesser of value or cost of investments.
1.5% of original cost of investments in the fund, less the original cost of investments Asper RPP I that have been realised or writtenoff.
For the Companys investment alongside the Hg6, Hg Mercury 2 and Hg8 in excess of the Companys prorata Hg Mercury 1, Hg7, Hg Mercury 2 and Hg8 funds, the commitment.
Thus, the coinvestments made by the carried interest arrangements are identical to that which Company in P&I, Visma, Achilles, Sovos, CogitalGroup, applies to all limited partners in these funds.
Under these Mitratech, Commify and MediFox do not entitle Hg to any arrangements, carried interest is payable based on 20% of priority profit share or carried interest.
No compensation the aggregate profits, but only after the repayment to the would be due to Hg on termination of the agreement.
Company of its invested capital and a preferred return, Hg has also been appointed as administrator of the based on 8% p. a. calculated daily, on the aggregate of its Company for a fee equal to 0.1% p. a. of the NAV.
10 10 66 net cumulative cash flows in each fund and such preferred Link Company Matters Limited was appointed return amount that is capitalised annually.
Carried interest as Company Secretary on 13 May 2015. in HGT Transition Capital will be calculated in the same way.
For the Companys investment alongside the Hg Saturn Calculation of ongoing charges fund, carried interest is payable based on 12% of the For the year to 31 December 2018, the Companys aggregate profits, payable after the repayment to the ongoing charges were calculated as 1.9% 31 December Company of its invested capital and a preferred return 2017: 1.5%.
The calculation is based on the ongoing based on 8% p. a. or 20% of the aggregate profits, payable charges expressed as a percentage of the average after the repayment to the Company of its invested capital published monthly NAV over the relevant year.
The ongoing charges, in accordance with guidelines The previous incentive scheme introduced in May 2003 issued by The Association of Investment Companies AIC, remains in place but only in respect of the Companys are the annualised expenses that are operational and investments in HGT LP.
This arrangement allows for a recurring by nature and specifically exclude, amongst carried interest of 20% of the excess annual growth in others, the expenses and gains or losses relating to the average NAV over an 8% preferred return, based on a acquisition or disposal of investments, performance threeyear rolling average NAV, calculated halfyearly and related fees such as carried interest, taxation and aggregated with any dividends declared by the Company in financing charges.
respect of that financial year.
The Companys ongoing charges consist of its operating No priority profit share or carried interest will apply to any expenses and current year priority profit share payable, coinvestment made alongside Hg5, Hg6, Hg Mercury, Hg7, as described in notes 7 and 8 to the financial statements.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Directors report continued Stewardship In addition, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Our Manager, Hg, seeks to invest the Companys funds in Director are available to enter into dialogue and businesses that are well managed, with high standards of correspondence with shareholders regarding the progress corporate governance.
and performance of the Company.
The section of this Report, entitled Shareholder Information, provides The Directors of the Company believe this creates the information which may be useful to shareholders.
proper conditions to enhance longterm shareholder value and to achieve a high level of corporate performance.
Transfer of shares and voting rights The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of underlying investments lies with Hg.
securities in the Company: no special rights with regard Hg has a policy of active portfolio management and ensures to control attached to securities: no restrictions on voting that significant time and resource is dedicated to every rights: no agreements between holders of securities investment, with Hg executives and Operating Partners regarding their transfer known to the Company: and no typically being appointed to investee company boards, in agreements to which the Company is a party that might order to ensure the application of active, resultsorientated affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
Further information regarding the stewardship of investee companies by Hg can be found in Substantial interests their review on pages 19 to 72.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had received notice that the persons noted in the table below had interests in Greenhouse gas emissions 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have Ordinary % of voting responsibility for any other emissions producing 1 shares rights sources reportable under the Companies Act 2006 Schroders plc 4,866,530 13.04 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Prudential plc group of companies 3,682,396 9.86 Financial Instruments Oxfordshire County Council Pension Fund 1,934,000 5.2 The Company had no outstanding derivative contracts at 31 December 2018.
Note 19 to the financial statements describes the financial risk management objectives and As at 6 March 2019, being the latest practicable date the Companys exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
prior to the publication of this Report, the Company had Listing Rule Disclosure received notice that the persons noted in the table below had interests in 3% or more of the total voting rights of The Company confirms that there are no items which the Company.
require disclosure under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
10 10 77 Ordinary % of voting 1 shares rights Relations with shareholders All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, Schroders plc 4,866,530 13.04 in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM Prudential plc group of companies 3,682,396 9.86 which is sent out at least 20 working days in advance sets out Oxfordshire County Council the business of the meeting and any item, not of an entirely Pension Fund 1,934,000 5.2 routine nature, is explained below.
Separate resolutions are 1 Notifications are required where an investor reaches the 3% threshold proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
and for every 1% increase or decrease thereafter.
The above holdings The Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit may therefore not be wholly accurate statements of the actual investor holdings at 31 December 2018 and at 6 March 2019. and Valuation Committee and the Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee, together with representatives of Hg, are available to answer In addition to their direct holdings in Hg funds, the partners shareholders questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting figures and staff of Hg also hold shares in the Company.
are available to shareholders at the AGM.
As at 31 December 2018, the Partners and staff of Hg Hg holds regular discussions with major shareholders, owned 741,783 shares: 2.0% of the total voting rights the feedback from which is greatly valued by the Board.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors report continued Analysis of registered Ordinary shareholders as at 31 December 2018 Number % of total Number % of total By size of holding of shares 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 of holders 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 1 5,000 594,832 1.59 1.79 522 68.50 71.10 5,001 50,000 2,355,624 6.31 6.28 132 17.33 16.11 50,001 100,000 2,991,640 8.02 6.08 43 5.64 4.22 over 100,000 31,382,602 84.08 85.85 65 8.53 8.57 Total 37,324,698 100.00 100.00 762 100.00 100.00 Annual General Meeting AGM This resolution will authorise the Directors, until the date falling 15 months after the date of the passing of the The AGM of the Company, which will include a presentation resolution or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual by Hg, will be held at the offices of Hg, 2 More London general meeting of the Company, to issue Ordinary shares Riverside, London SE1 2AP on Tuesday 23 April 2019 at for cash, without preemption rights applying, of up to an 11.00 a. m. Light refreshments will be available from aggregate nominal value of 933,117, representing 10.30 a. m. Notice of the AGM is given on pages 132 to 138. approximately 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary share The Board is of the opinion that the passing of all resolutions capital as at the date of the Notice.
being put to the AGM would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Directors therefore No issuance of Ordinary shares without preemption rights recommend that shareholders vote in favour of resolutions will be made at a price less than the prevailing net asset 1 to 15, as set out in the Notice of Meeting.
value per Ordinary share at the time of issue.
This power will be exercised only if, in the opinion of the Authority of Directors to allot shares Directors, it would be in the best interests of shareholders A general authority to allot new shares or to grant rights as a whole.
over shares was given to the Directors at the Companys AGM in 2018.
Authority to buy back shares The authority gives the Directors, for the period until the The Directors authority to buy back shares was renewed at conclusion of the AGM in 2019, the necessary authority to last years AGM and will expire at the end of the AGM in 2019. allot securities up to a maximum nominal amount of Although no shares were bought back during the year, 3,110,391, or what was at 31 December 2017 approximately the Directors are proposing to renew the authority at the 33.33% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
forthcoming AGM as set out in Resolution 15 in the Notice The Directors are proposing to renew the general authority of AGM, and are seeking authority to purchase up to 10 10 88 to allot shares at the 2019 AGM.
14.99% of the issued share capital.
This authority, unless renewed, will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in The Board considers it appropriate that the Directors 2020 or 15 months from the passing of the resolution.
should be granted ongoing authority to allot shares in the The authority will be used where the Directors consider capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
of 3,110,391 representing approximately 33.33% of the Companys Ordinary share capital.
The power will last until Purchases of Ordinary shares will only be made through the conclusion of the AGM in 2020.
The Directors will the market for cash at prices below the prevailing NAV per consider a potential share issue, providing the market Ordinary share.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial conditions permit.
This power will be exercised only if, Conduct Authority, the maximum price that can be paid for in the opinion of the Directors, it would be in the best each Ordinary share is the higher of: a 105% of the average interests of shareholders as a whole.
of the midmarket quotations of the Ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date on which Disapplication of preemption rights such share is contracted to be purchased: and b the higher of A general power to disapply the preemption rights set out the price of the last independent trade and the highest current in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 was granted to independent bid for an Ordinary share.
The minimum price the Directors at the AGM in 2018. that may be paid will be the nominal value of such Ordinary share, being 0.025 pence if the Share Split is approved or The Directors are proposing a resolution to renew and 0.25 if such Share Split does not become effective.
extend, subject to the passing of the resolution to allot shares, the Directors authority to allot equity securities Any shares purchased under this authority will be either be for cash without preemption rights applying in cancelled or held in treasury at the discretion of the Board certain circumstances.
for future resale in appropriate market conditions.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Directors report continued Subdivision of shares the existing shares will be 24 May 2019 and the effective date for dealings to commence in New Shares will be on Over the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the price 28 May 2019. of the Companys existing shares of 25 pence each has risen to the point where the closing midmarket price on The Share Split will not itself give rise to any liability to UK 6 March 2019 being the latest practicable date prior to income tax or corporation tax on income for shareholders.
publication of this document was 20.
To assist existing For the purposes of UK capital gains tax and corporation shareholders and potential new investors and in order to tax on chargeable gains, the receipt of the New Shares from improve the liquidity of the Companys shares, the the Share Split will be a reorganisation of the share capital Directors believe that it is appropriate to propose the of the Company.
Accordingly, the shareholders holding of subdivision of each of the existing shares into 10 new New Shares will be treated as the same asset as the shares of 2.5 pence each the New Shares pursuant to shareholders holding of existing shares and as having been Resolution 13 at the Annual General Meeting the Share acquired at the same time, and for the same consideration, Split.
Following the Share Split, each shareholder will hold as that holding of existing shares.
10 New Shares for each existing share they held If Resolution 13 is passed, the Share Split will become immediately prior to the Share Split.
The Share Split will effective on admission of the New Shares to the Official increase the number of shares the Company has in issue, List, which is expected to be at 8.00am on 28 May 2019 or but it is expected that there will be a corresponding such later date as the Directors of the Company may in reduction in the net asset value and market price of each their absolute discretion determine.
New Share, reflecting the fact that Shareholders will own 10 times as many New Shares.
The Directors believe that Disclosure of information to Auditors this will benefit shareholders by improving the liquidity of Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of their investments and will attract more investors.
approval of this Report confirms that: The Share Split requires shareholder approval and, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit accordingly, Resolution 13 seeks such approval.
The Share information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Split is conditional on the New Shares being admitted to the the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to Official List of the UKLA and to trading on the London Stock have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself Exchanges market for listed securities.
The New Shares will aware of any relevant audit information and to establish rank pari passu with each other and will carry the same that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
rights and be subject to the same restrictions as the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in existing shares.
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the The Companys issued share capital as at 6 March 2019 Companies Act 2006. was 9,331,174.5 divided into 37,324,698 existing shares of 25 pence each.
If the Share Split is applied to the existing Donations share capital, the total value of the share capital will remain The Company made no political or charitable donations at 9,331,174.5 but will be divided into 373,246,980 New 10 10 99 during the year 2017: nil.
A holding of New Shares Post balance sheet events following the Share Split will represent the same proportion There were no post balance sheet events.
of the issued share capital of the Company as the corresponding holding of existing shares Currently in issue.
The New Shares may be held in certificated or On behalf of the Board uncertificated form.
Following the Share Split becoming Roger Mountford, Chairman effective, share certificates in respect of the existing shares 8 March 2019 will cease to be valid and will be cancelled.
New certificates in respect of the New Shares will be issued to those shareholders who hold their existing shares in certificated form, and are expected to be dispatched by 4 June 2019.
No temporary documents of title will be issued.
Transfers of New Shares between 28 May 2019 Note date of admission of New Shares and the dispatch of new certificates will be certified against the Companys register of members held by Computershare.
CREST accounts are expected to be credited on 28 May 2019.
Applications will be made for admission of the New Shares to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities.
If the applications are accepted, it is proposed that the last day of dealings in HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
