Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Top 20 investments representing 89% of the value of the Companys investments 49 49 Investments are held through limited partnerships, of which the Company is the sole limited partner.
The Company invests alongside other clients of Hg.
Typically, the Companys holding forms part of a much larger majority interest held by Hgs clients in buyout investments in companies with an enterprise value EV of between 50 million and more than 1 billion.
Hgs review generally refers to each transaction in its entirety, apart from the tables detailing the Companys participation, or where it specifically says otherwise.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 01 50 50 Why did we invest?
Visma was an early example of Hg partnering with a business with a high degree of recurring revenues, which related to serving a fragmented SME customer base Business description with businesscritical application software a focus which forms some of our key Visma is a leading provider of sweetspot investment criteria today.
At the time of acquisition, in 2006, we had businesscritical software to SMEs identified opportunities for Visma not only to grow its existing segments and acquire and the public sector in the Nordic new segments, but also to further transition the business to a SaaS focused model.
Headquartered How do we intend to create value?
in Oslo with significant revenues in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark Visma has consistently exceeded our investment plans.
In April 2014, following a and the Netherlands, the company decision by majority owner KKR to sell part of its original 2010 stake in Visma, Hg provides the following services to decided to sell its remaining stake, generating a total return between 2006 and its customer base of above 900,000 2014 of 5.2x original cost and a gross IRR of 33%.
Hg clients then reinvested enterprises: accounting: resource 409 million in the business for a 31% stake, via the Hg7 Fund and coinvestment, planning and payroll software: and as a colead investor, alongside KKR and Cinven.
This valued the business at a total transaction process outsourcing, EV of NOK 21 billion 2.1 billion.
In 2017, Hg announced a further investment such as debt collection and into Visma following the sale of KKRs stake valuing the business at NOK 45 billion procurement services.
In 2018, Hg made a further investment in Visma via Hg Saturn and in 2019 welcomed the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board CPPIB as an investor in the company valuing the business at NOK 61 billion 5.5 billion.
The continued Visma produces detailed reporting reinvestment in Visma reflects our conviction in the continuing strength of the on its website on a quarterly basis: business, backing a management team we know well with a strong track record of www.
com investorscreating value for investors.
relations results-figures overview What has been achieved?
Since 2006, Visma has acquired over 150 companies across the Nordic and For a full case study on Visma Benelux regions.
These transactions strengthened organic growth from please visit: innovation in new products, as well as driving margin improvement through a https: hgcapital.
com casereorganisation of Vismas internal processes.
Visma is now positioned as one of studies #overlay case 4393 the leading and largest SaaS companies in Europe, with more than 500 million of annualised recurring pureSaaS revenues.
Visma continues to see yearonyear strong doubledigit growth with revenue and The Companys investment through HGT 7 LP, HGT Saturn LP and EBITDA growth, including recent M&A, of 33% and 32% respectively over the last co-investment through HGT LP twelve months to 31 December 2018.
Following the investment in early 2019 by CPPIB, the increase in valuation has been fully reflected in this Annual Report.
com This led to the Companys valuation of its stake in Visma rising by 31.1 million over the course of the year.
Investment sector: Technology How will we crystallise value?
Cluster: Tax & Accounting Hg will continue to support Vismas next stage of development given a number of Location: Scandinavia attractive elements of the companys business model, strength of the management Investment date: Aug 2014 team, and upside potential from the SaaS transition.
Visma has a scale and growth Hg clients total equity: 44.5% profile which would make it an attractive candidate for an initial public offering IPO or a large private IPO, where multiple larger institutional or sovereign wealth Residual cost 000 : 65,921 investors could invest in the business without requiring its shares to be listed.
Unrealised value 000 : 153,636 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 02 51 51 Why did we invest?
Hgs technology team tracked Sovos previously Taxware for two years, as we identified the company as a scale specialist in tax compliance for enterprise customers.
We also saw the potential to expand the company outside the Business description US market.
Sovos is a leading global provider of Sovos sits right in the Hg sweetspot with a strong and predictable business tax compliance software solutions.
model, including: c. 95% contractually recurring revenue: a fragmented, loyal These solutions include sales, tax customer base: high margins: and robust cash conversion.
Sovos largest, core determination and filing, 1099 and products have achieved close to doubledigit organic revenue growth.
10 series tax information reporting, How do we intend to create value?
beverage alcohol compliance In addition to continuing to grow revenues organically, Sovos has a strong track reporting, VAT compliance record of acquiring and successfully integrating tax compliance software companies.
reporting, einvoice filing and The market remains fragmented and hence we believe there are many attractive reporting, and Automatic Exchange opportunities for Sovos to grow by acquisition.
There is additional potential of Information AEOI reporting through further margin improvement.
Sovos is headquartered in Boston, What has been achieved?
Massachusetts and also has a In June 2016, Sovos announced the acquisition of Invoiceware International, presence in Europe and Latin based in Atlanta and Sao Paulo.
This expanded the companys capabilities in Latin America.
The majority of revenue America and added the industrys only solution for handling electronic invoicing is generated from a US customer and fiscal reporting in multiple countries from a single platform.
A new Chairman base of c. 4,500, which are and CFO were also recruited.
In August 2017, Sovos announced the acquisition of predominantly large enterprises.
Paperless, based in Santiago, Chile, which complements Invoicewares product offering and provides Sovos with a sector leading solution for business to government reporting a form of regulatory compliance which has spread to more than 60 countries.
In July 2018, Sovos completed the acquisition of TrustWeaver, a leading provider of Cloud software that helps businesses authenticate and centrally archive electronic documents for VAT audit purposes.
Hg has supported the management team at Sovos in several initiatives across the business and helped to operationalise the customer success team, leading to increased customer loyalty.
The Companys investment through How is it performing?
HGT 7 LP and co-investment through Sovos has seen rapid growth since our investment in early 2016, driven by strong HGT LP organic growth in its core products.
We have also been successful in deploying material capital into M&A and see a significant number of additional opportunities website: www.
Investment sector: Technology The Company has benefited from an increase of 13.0 million in the Companys valuation of its stake over 2018.
Cluster: Tax & Accounting Location: North America How will we crystallise value?
We believe Sovos will be an attractive acquisition target for private equity buyers Investment date: Mar 2016 as it demonstrates high levels of organic revenue growth, high EBITDA margins Hg clients total equity: 98.5% and strong market positioning: however, we also see an IPO as a potential route to Residual cost 000 : 38,508 exit given the strong cash generation and increasingly global equity story.
Lastly, there are several potential trade buyers.
Unrealised value 000 : 84,737 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 03 52 52 Why did we invest?
IRIS is an early example of our focus on businesscritical software firms operating in attractive, predictable end markets: the original investment decision was based Business description on the potential for organic growth and acquisitionled consolidation opportunities.
IRIS Software Group is a leading IRIS operates a highly recurring business model with over 85% of revenues from UK provider of businesscritical software and managed service subscriptions, much of which is based on annual software solutions for compliance renewals paid in advance.
and regulatory driven industries, How do we intend to create value?
such as the accountancy, education, bookkeeping & human capital IRIS continues to deliver added value to its existing customers through regular management markets.
regulatory and feature updates, leading to high customer loyalty.
The strong level of reinvestment into new product development and outstanding customer Over the last decade, IRIS has support has continued to fuel outperformance vs. other providers.
Combined, become one of the most trusted this has delivered revenue growth of typically 10% p. a.
The UK accountancy and providers of businesscritical SME software markets remain fragmented, offering additional acquisition software & services to SMEs opportunities.
IRIS has always been at the forefront of providing the most in the UK today.
innovative products to its customers and will continue to invest in new technology Over 21,000 accountancy practices, to meet their needs.
We also think there is a substantial upside in developing or 10,000 schools academies and acquiring SaaS products to target adjacent sectors.
more than 80,000 SMEs, corporates and payroll bureaux rely on IRIS to What has been achieved?
run their businesses every day.
Hg and IRIS longstanding history started with the 2004 buyout led by Hg, followed by retaining a minority shareholding after the sale to Hellman & For a full case study on IRIS, Friedman in 2007.
In 2011, we again became the majority shareholder through please refer to pages 28 and 29. the Hg6 Fund.
In 2018, Hg6 completed the sale of IRIS to Hg Saturn and ICG in a joint control deal, representing an EV of 1.3 billion.
IRIS has been successful in expanding its offering, both by organic product development and by acquisition.
IRIS has also established a Cloud Division to sell SaaS products to UK accountants and SMEs.
In 2016, IRIS acquired Octopus HR and PS Financial, then SAAF Analytics, Results Squared and ParentMail in 2017.
This M&A momentum has continued in 2018 including the acquisitions of Contact Group, Taxfiler and STAR Payroll.
The Companys investment through IRIS has been able to maintain strong levels of revenue, EBITDA and cash flow HGT Saturn LP growth across market cycles.
For the past few years, revenues have seen high double digit growth rates year on year, and the annual EBITDA margin has website: www.
co. uk consistently been close to 50%, excluding the investment in the Cloud division.
In Investment sector: Technology 2018, the Companys valuation of its stake in IRIS saw an increase of 25.6 million.
Cluster: Tax & Accounting How will we crystallise value?
We believe IRIS will be an attractive software business acquisition target for Location: UK financial buyers as it demonstrates high levels of organic revenue growth, strong Investment date: Sept 2018 Net Recurring Revenue and high EBITDA margins coupled with a leading sector Hg clients total equity: 65.0% position: however, we also see an IPO as a potential route to exit given the strong cash generation.
Residual cost 000 : 36,380 Unrealised value 000 : 45,387 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 04 53 53 Why did we invest?
This investment builds on our prior experience in SME software, accounting and tax software as well as the HR and Payroll software space.
Hg has made multiple Business description investments in this space already HR and payroll: IRIS, P&I, Raet, Visma, SHL: With its portfolio spanning finance, accounting and tax: Cogital, Visma, TeamSystem, IRIS, ATC, Sovos.
Access HR, payroll, hospitality, recruitment, demonstrates many of the characteristics that Hg looks for in an investment health and social care, including: businesscritical software, a strong management team and potential manufacturing and distribution, for M&A.
education and not for profit How do we intend to create value?
sectors, The Access Group Access is a vendor of businesscritical The top priorities for the Board and management team currently include: business software to midmarket integration of recent acquisitions: acceleration in the pace of transition to organisations in the UK.
Access subscription sales: building out capabilities acquired through recent M&A: software helps over 12,000 UK successfully launching the Workspace user interface across multiple products: businesses to work efficiently with delivering on bookings growth in accordance with management plan: and expertise across numerous continuing to execute M&A in accordance with the M&A strategy.
In June 2018, Hg8 additional opportunities for margin improvement.
completed an investment in Access What has been achieved?
As part of Following the completion of Hgs investment, we have kicked off a number of the transaction, TA Associates workstreams with the business including: M&A support: evaluating the pace rolled over part of their stake in of transition to a fully SaaS and subscription sales model: and exploring a order to maintain a stake equal data analytics project and sales incentive refresh to support the companys to Hgs equity ownership in the crosssell efforts.
business, while management and How is it performing?
AlpInvest also rolled over as minority shareholders alongside Access is trading well and recently reported significant yearonyear growth in Hg and TA.
its 2018 fiscal year, with turnover rising 42% from 101.1 million to 143.1 million.
The company also announced its EBITDA had risen 71% from 27.9 million to 47.6 million yearonyear.
This growth was fuelled by a combination of strategic acquisitions and a rise in organic growth to 13%, with recurring revenue making up 70% of total revenue.
Whilst this is a new investment to the portfolio, strong trading has led to a small increase of 4.9 million in the Companys valuation of its stake over 2018.
The Companys investment through How will we crystallise value?
HGT 8 LP We believe Access will be an attractive acquisition target for private equity buyers as it demonstrates high levels of organic revenue growth, strong Net Recurring website: www.
com Revenue and high EBITDA margins: however, we also see an IPO as a potential Investment sector: Technology route to exit given the business growth profile and strong cash generation.
Cluster: ERP & Payroll Lastly, there are several potential trade buyers.
Location: UK Investment date: June 2018 Hg clients total equity: 32.1% Residual cost 000 : 30,491 Unrealised value 000 : 35,388 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 05 54 54 Why did we invest?
Cogital continues the Services teams record of investing in regulatory driven businesses within Hgs sweetspot business model focus.
We have been tracking the SME accountancy and advisory services sector for many years as it exhibits Business description several attractive criteria, including: a high share of repeatable revenue due to the CogitalGroup Cogital or the Group businesscritical nature of the services: high retention rates due to the trusted was launched in December 2016 nature of the adviser relationship: serving fragmented customer bases: through the acquisitions and fragmented competitive landscapes allowing for significant M&A opportunities: merger of Nordic based Azets and an opportunity for high margin improvement driven by the increased use formerly named Visma BPO and of technology, nearshoring and scale.
UK based firms Baldwins and Blick Rothenberg.
The Groups focus is How do we intend to create value?
the provision of critical business We are principally focused on three valuation creation levers: driving organic support, BPO and advisory services growth across the Group: pursuing the acquisitions of small accounting, to the entrepreneurial and private tax & payroll offices: and improving EBITDA margins through technology company business segments and nearshoring.
together with their owners and managers.
In total, the Group now What has been achieved?
has c. 90,000 customers with more Since Hg invested in December 2016, Cogital has completed over 45 acquisitions, than 6,000 employees operating successfully increased its acquisition facilities and rolled out a groupwide from 177 offices in the UK, Norway, incentive scheme.
The Group also has 700 employees based in Romania and Lithuania.
Cogital is trading in line with expectations, having seen strong doubledigit revenue and EBITDA growth over the last year.
Since the business launched in December 2016 it has seen a more than 60% increase in its sales and profits.
To view Cogitals Annual Review This strong trading has led to an increase in the Companys valuation of its stake 2018, please visit: https: cdn.
pdf How will we crystallise value?
We expect the business model characteristics of Cogital to be appealing to a wide range of financial sponsors at exit.
We also think an IPO is a possible exit strategy.
The Companys investment through HGT 7 LP and co-investment through HGT LP website: www.
com Investment sector: Services Cluster: Tax & Accounting Location: UK Investment date: Oct 2016 Hg clients total equity: 76.3% Residual cost 000 : 20,966 Unrealised value 000 : 33,090 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 06 55 55 Why did we invest?
This investment continues Hgs strategy to develop technologyenabled service providers in the automotive financing and distribution space and is the result of Business description considerable sector work undertaken in recent years.
This includes prior Mobility Holding MH is a investments in Zenith, Epyx, Eucon and Parts Alliance.
Mobility Holding sits in the Hg platform investment to develop a investment sweetspot, with a strong and predictable business model, recurring leading independent multichannel revenues and a loyal customer base.
The business has a strong management team provider of subscriptionbased, with significant experience in the German automotive leasing and online fullservice car leasing and flatrate distribution space.
Together, the Group will benefit from strong product synergies.
As part of this strategy, Hg8 initially acquired MeinAuto How do we intend to create value?
MA, a leading German online B2C The combination of MC, MA and ASS, will allow us to build a new online SME and platform for new car purchases in B2C subscription leasing product including subscriptionbased mobility offers.
Germany, from its founders in Our intention is to build the leading German tech enabled multichannel provider December 2017.
Subsequently, MH of fullservice leasing and car subscription solutions to B2C and SME customers acquired Mobility Concept MC, with a strong online focus.
a leading B2B leasing company in Germany, in a carveout from What has been achieved?
Unicredit at the end of May 2018.
As a result of the cooperation between MC and MA, the group successfully In September 2018, MH bought launched its new online SME and B2C subscription and leasing product.
Athletic Sport Sponsoring ASS, How is it performing?
a leading German provider of fullservice, automotive leasing MH is trading well and showed high single digit EBIT growth in the 2018 financial offers and mobility subscriptions year.
The groups online leasing and subscription offering is trading ahead of plan to members of closed user groups, and MH is on track to deliver its 2019 budget.
This investment is currently valued in a proprietary transaction.
MHs at slightly above its initial transaction value.
products range from vehicle How will we crystallise value?
purchasing and leasing to innovative We believe that a leading platform in online car distribution, specifically when flat rate subscription offers for SMEs, combined with a direct leasing and subscription offering, is of high relevance private consumers as well as large to strategic buyers in the mobility ecosystem as well as being attractive to commercial fleet customers.
The Companys investment through HGT 8 LP website: www.
fide Investment sector: Services Cluster: Automotive Location: Germany Investment date: May 2018 Hg clients total equity: 81.8% Residual cost 000 : 31,718 Unrealised value 000 : 32,248 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 07 56 56 Why did we invest?
The Genesis team identified the insurance broking subsector as attractive for potential investment in 2011, as it is characterised by businesses with high levels Business description of recurring revenues, providing a nondiscretionary purchase for customers, with strong cash generation and opportunities for bolton M&A.
APlan was identified APlan is a UKbased insurance as part of this market mapping exercise and had been tracked by the Genesis broker focused on team for three years, prior to our investment in the business in 2015. nondiscretionary B2C motor and APlan has a personal, serviceoriented approach leading to best in class levels of household insurance products.
customer satisfaction, driving high retention rates and low customer acquisition APlan also distributes commercial costs, due to a high referral rate.
lines insurance products and is active in a range of niches including How do we intend to create value?
high net worth individuals and Hg intends to support APlans experienced management through organic growth foreignspeaking customers.
APlan of its current business volumes in the existing branches and assisting with the focuses on high levels of customer rollout of new branches.
Additionally, there are potential opportunities for service and more complex cases further growth, through selective M&A and new product lines.
APlans local, hightouch model What has been achieved?
enables it to offer customers Hg is supporting APlan with ongoing and future projects, including: support on products at the same price as those M&A development: an upgrade of the legacy broking administration technology found on price comparison websites system: investment in the data and analytics team and infrastructure to use but with significantly higher levels of insight to drive new business growth and improve customer retention: and service and cover, whilst retaining improved group reporting.
In March 2017, the Genesis team completed a industry beating margins.
APlans refinancing of APlan, returning 52 million to clients including 5.2 million to the KPIs consistently outperform its Company 35% of the original investment made.
In March 2019, Hg completed peers, with sectorleading NPS another refinancing, with proceeds of 138 million, including 13.7 million to the scores, loss ratios and customer Company.
Following this refinancing, c. 1.3x original cost of the APlan investment retention which have enabled the will have been returned without any reduction in Hgs equity ownership.
business to demonstrate 25 years How is it performing?
APlan is performing well and is ahead of our original investment case on both a revenue and EBITDA basis, with growth over the last twelve months of 31% and 12% respectively.
New business policies are benefiting from the continued branch rollout and marketing initiatives to drive new business at existing branches.
The The Companys investment through HGT 7 LP inflation of premiums in motor insurance is slightly decreasing, but revenue per policy is staying stable given fee income is counterbalancing commission income.
co. uk Continued growth in equity value from consistent underlying trading growth has added 7.0 million to the Companys valuation of its interest in APlan over 2018.
Investment sector: Services Cluster: Insurance How will we crystallise value?
Location: UK APlan appeals to many buyer groups, including a trade or financial buyer.
The business could also be of interest to yield investors or, when it reaches critical Investment date: Apr 2015 size, an IPO might be feasible.
Hg clients total equity: 72.2% Residual cost 000 : 10,447 For a full case study on A-Plan, please visit: Unrealised value 000 : 29,463 https: hgcapital.
com case-studies #overlay case 343 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 08 57 57 Why did we invest?
Legal process and regulatory compliance software is a core Hg sector, and one we have invested in before and are currently invested in through STP, which Business description supports insolvency processes and midmarket practice management in the Mitratech is a leading global DACH region of Europe.
provider of Enterprise Legal Hgs Genesis team have looked at many targets in this fragmented sector.
Management ELM software However, Mitratech is one that is sufficiently large and attractive as a standalone to corporate legal departments.
investment and has a proven track record of performance backed by a strong The core product is Matter management team with a clear strategy to create value.
We see Mitratech Management software which acts as the bestplaced platform to drive a global sector rollup.
as the Enterprise Resource Planning ERP software at the heart of How do we intend to create value?
inhouse legal teams, and an Hg intends to support Mitratech through both continued organic growth of ebilling solution which provides the business and as the bestplaced platform in this sector to achieve global einvoicing capabilities between law scale through M&A.
The business has a strong management team with a department and external counsel bestinclass core product winning customers from fragmented competition with automatic invoice review.
Mitratech serves a wide customer What has been achieved?
base of c. 1,000 corporate customers across the world, Hg is supporting Mitratech to source further M&A opportunities following the including 40% of the Fortune 500. acquisition in April 2018 of ThinkSmart, the workflow automation platform that Over 650 law firms are using the fits well with Mitratechs core ELM product, TeamConnect.
Hgs Operations ebilling platform to transmit Innovation OI team is working with the management on proposition and invoices to clients, including all product development as well as several customer success initiatives to put new the AmLaw 200 and 99% of the systems and processes in place to enhance Mitratechs customer satisfaction Global 100 Law Firms.
is based in Austin, Texas with How is it performing?
further offices in the US, England, Performance in the 2019 financial year was slightly below expectations but Wales and Australia, employing delivered doubledigit growth in recurring revenue, revenue and EBITDA versus c. 400 people.
The business faces an increasingly intense competitive landscape for bookings in the core ELM segment but continues to display strong win rates.
We have been pleased with crossselling the newly acquired ThinkSmart The Companys investment through product to key TeamConnect customers.
Further, Mitratech has launched HGT 7 LP and co-investment through HGT LP new LegalHold GRC modules.
Early 2019 saw the launch of TeamConnect Essentials, the new Cloud platform website: www.
com built for smaller mediumsized corporate legal departments.
The early adoption programme with select customers has been successful and the business is looking Investment sector: Technology to significantly increase presence in this market segment over the next 12 months.
Cluster: Legal & Compliance How will we crystallise value?
Location: North America We believe Mitratech will present an attractive acquisition target to a number Investment date: Apr 2017 of trade acquirers in the Legal, Enterprise Content Management ECM and Hg clients total equity: 61.1% Governance Risk and Compliance GRC sectors where its position as the Residual cost 000 : 22,258 leading ELM vendor holds high strategic value.
Unrealised value 000 : 23,491 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 09 58 58 Why did we invest?
The A2P industry is operating in a fastgrowing market but remains fragmented in most geographies and the key bases of the investment hypothesis are: strong Business description organic growth in the A2P sector is expected to continue, driven by further use Commify Group Commify is a case expansion and increasing adoption across Europe: an opportunity for leading ApplicationtoPerson targeted M&A: and a wider portfolio of messaging technologies to provide A2P messaging service in customers with a channel agnostic platform to communicate with their Western Europe.
The customer customers and employees.
base is mainly SMEs and some larger enterprises who use How do we intend to create value?
Commifys services to communicate Our initiatives are targeted at scaling the business and maximising our strategic with their end customers through value to potential acquirers through building a robust panEuropean business.
messages, voice, and a number of Key initiatives are: M&A: building out the management team and supporting the other media.
The group is a integration of the existing businesses into a much larger business: and improved combination of four businesses: financial reporting through an integrated finance function.
Mobyt acquired in Q4 2016, What has been achieved?
SMS Envoi acquired by Mobyt We have built out the management team through hiring a new CFO, CTO and CCO, in June 2017, Esendex acquired to support the integration of the existing businesses and lay the platform for in June 2017 and SMS Publi further M&A.
The integration of the existing businesses is well underway with acquired by Esendex in June 2017. visible improvements across reporting and development of a cohesive Most messages are business panEuropean strategy.
We continue to support management through access critical, operational content such to Hgs network of technology executives from across the portfolio, as well as as appointment reminders and support from Hgs Operations Innovation team across a number of functions delivery notifications.
such as sales and marketing, and HR.
The business also supports marketing promotional messages How is it performing?
The business is performing well and current trading is strong with high teens EBITDA growth over 2018: a combination of organic growth and strong success in M&A with the acquisition of five businesses in 2018.
This performance has led to an uplift in value of 7.7 million in the Companys valuation of its interest in Commify at the end of the year.
HgCapital Mercury D LP and At the time of exit, we expect there to be significant interest in the business from co-investment through HGT LP trade buyers other consolidators in Europe and the US.
Historically, this has also been an active space in the US.
We also expect interest from capital markets given website: www.
com the long runway of organic growth as well as the availability of M&A targets Investment sector: Technology across Europe.
Cluster: SME Tech Services Location: UK Investment date: Jun 2017 Hg clients total equity: 82.6% Residual cost 000 : 12,548 Unrealised value 000 : 22,066 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 10 59 59 Why did we invest?
Hg had been tracking IT Relation since 2016, first identifying the business when we invested in Zitcom and continued to track it since then as we looked to invest Business description behind managed IT services to SMEs as a key investment theme.
This investment Founded in 2003, IT Relation is consistent with Hgs focus on SME Technology Services in Europe, with other provides services which allow SMEs activity in the sector including investments in Zitcom 2015 and DADA 2017, to move their IT infrastructure and both providers of online hosting services to SMEs.
Hg will support the operations into the Cloud, as well as management team to build a clear industry champion based on IT Relations providing end user support and excellent customer service and operating platform.
consulting as part of a fullservice IT offering.
The company has more How do we intend to create value?
than 450 employees supporting IT Relation has a strong track record of successfully executing this strategy, thousands of customers and tens of demonstrating strong net revenue retention metrics and the ability to drive high thousands of users in Denmark and organic growth rates from existing and new customers.
We expect this organic around the world.
growth engine to continue to drive value creation during Hgs ownership period.
In addition, IT Relation has been supplementing its organic growth through acquisitions, having acquired and successfully integrated six businesses in the last three years prior to Hgs ownership period and having acquired two additional businesses during Hgs ownership in 2018 Techbiz and Sotea : we expect further M&A to contribute material value creation going forward.
Hg is now focused on working on a number of workstreams with the IT Relation management team: increasing support for the management team at Board level and onboarding financial reporting: integration of the recently completed acquisitions: M&A support to source and assess more potential opportunities: increased operational scalability and automation.
IT Relation is continuing its trajectory of doubledigit organic revenue growth driven by strong new sales and upselling into the customer base.
This has been supplemented by M&A driven growth via four acquisitions completed this year: ITafdelingen, ACI, Techbiz and Sotea the last 2 acquired under Hg ownership.
Given IT Relation is a new investment, Hgs valuation of its stake in IT Relation The Companys investment through HGT 8 LP is currently held just above its initial investment value.
How will we crystallise value?
dk We believe IT Relation will be an attractive acquisition target for private equity Investment sector: Services buyers as it demonstrates high levels of organic revenue growth, strong net Cluster: SME Tech Services recurring revenue retention, high EBITDA margins and strong cash conversion with limited capex.
We see the exit environment as robust, with a range of Location: Scandinavia potential strategic as well as financial buyers.
Investment date: Aug 2018 Hg clients total equity: 75.6% Residual cost 000 : 16,037 Unrealised value 000 : 16,070 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 11 60 60 Why did we invest?
Hg had known Foundry for several years and this investment was in line with our sectorfocused approach of investing in leading global providers of vertical market Business description application software.
Foundry shares many of the characteristics that we look for, Foundry is a leading global providing an excellent platform for growth across a diversified client base and a developer of computer graphics, commitment to innovation.
highend visual effects VFX and Foundry is rich in intellectual property and positioned well against favourable 3D design software for the design, segment trends that could allow for an upside return to be achieved through a visualisation and entertainment number of new business initiatives.
We see potential from continuing to leverage industries.
The company was worldclass products in new segments.
founded in 1996 and is headquartered in London, How do we intend to create value?
with offices in Manchester, Hg is working closely with the management team to help the business accelerate Los Angeles and Austin.
It has more its high rate of organic growth, in particular the ongoing development of than 3,000 customers and 20,000 disruptive technologies driving creative control and production efficiency such as users in over 100 countries and Katana, a leading procedural lighting and look development product: Athera, a employs c. 300 people.
Cloud platform for the VFX segment: and the Digital Design division, where The firm has the fide facto standard Foundry is transforming workflows in the design industry.
We are also working in the film postproduction VFX with Foundry to identify value accretive M&A to support the business and its visual effects software space with management in building a global software champion.
its NUKE product range and a series What has been achieved?
Additionally, in 2012, the company acquired In December 2015, we appointed a new management team to lead the business in MODO, a 3D modelling product that its next phase of growth and supported them in refinancing the 50 million bridge gained the company access to the loan which was used to finance the initial purchase of Foundry.
Hg has worked with management to implement new pricing and business models, launch a number of specialist products in the 3D design sector and improve the organisation and processes of the sales function.
Over the last year, Foundry has seen strong doubledigit EBITDA growth primarily driven from growth in its core Media and Entertainment products NUKE and Katana and strong cost control.
HGT 7 LP Foundry has the potential to be the leading provider of software to professional website: www.
co. uk users in creative industries, both to the Media and Entertainment industry as well as Concept Design.
Both are significant global markets with longterm growth Investment sector: Technology potential.
Foundrys position in these markets, combined with the business Cluster: Other robust organic growth, high EBITDA margins and strong cash generation, should Location: UK attract interest from trade and financial buyers.
Investment date: May 2015 Hg clients total equity: 79.1% Residual cost 000 : 15,142 Unrealised value 000 : 15,726 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 12 61 61 Why did we invest?
The Mercury team had been following FE for a number of years as it displays a number of the business characteristics that Hg looks for, including a strong Business description position in the wealth management and asset management software and data Financial Express FE is a sector, a wellrecognised brand and businesscritical products.
This is a sector that UKbased provider of fund data to Hg knows well, having been previously invested in Intelliflo in 2013, a provider of IFAs, platforms, wealth managers SaaS financial adviser software into the same market.
In November 2018, FE announced that it would How do we intend to create value?
combine forces with two previous Over the next 12 to 18 months, Hg will be supporting the management of FE, Hg investments, fundinfo, a Swiss fundinfo and F2C with a number of initiatives.
The immediate plan is the provider of fund data publication integration of the three organisations: developing sales and marketing processes: and distribution services connecting assisting with senior executive recruitment: and implementation of KPI driven asset managers and wealth management tools and improved reporting.
We also expect to look at further managers, and F2C, a M&A opportunities in due course.
Luxembourgbased SaaS platform What has been achieved?
for the creation and dissemination of fund documents.
The three firms It is early in the life of FEs ownership under Hg.
The acquisition of FE and will integrate to create a single combination with fundinfo F2C completed in November 2018 and the focus business with an international is firmly on integrating the businesses and realising associated synergies.
reach, sectorleading products and The merger is expected to create one of the largest players in the fund data, services, a greater level of scale and software and information field.
This will create a platform for both geographic a continued focus on operational and product expansion.
Combined, the firm will serve The businesses are performing ahead of expectations and current trading is around 800 asset managers with strong across the group with doubledigit LTM revenue and EBITDA growth.
over 3,000 fund distributors, The Companys valuation of its stake in FE fundinfo has seen an increase of including wealth managers, 3.4 million over 2018, driven by product growth and high cash conversion.
platforms, private banks and financial advice firms.
There are few data assets of this scale and quality in the sector and we believe The Companys investment through that FE will be a key target for other large data vendors, fund platforms, and HgCapital Mercury D LP and HGT market infrastructure players.
We would also expect high financial buyer Mercury 2 LP interest at exit.
net Investment sector: Technology Cluster: Capital Markets & Wealth Management Location: UK Investment date: Nov 2018 Hg clients total equity: 55.6% Residual cost 000 : 11,407 Unrealised value 000 : 15,616 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 13 62 62 Why did we invest?
BrightPays business of Accounting and HR payroll software is a very familiar sector to Hg and represents our tenth investment in businesses within this space, Business description and the first structured as Transition Capital.
Based outside Dublin, BrightPay The founder and management team had built an excellent reputation in the provides payroll solutions to sector, with a highly satisfied customer base and awardwinning product set but SMEs and payroll bureaux in the saw an opportunity to accelerate growth with a supportive commercial partner.
BrightPays The business is well positioned to benefit from the Irish PAYE Modernisation, the software is used by over 220,000 most significant reform of the Irish payroll reporting system since its introduction employers across the UK and in 1960, which has required employers to report payroll in real time since January Ireland under two brands, 2019 and will lead to many small businesses adopting payroll software for the first BrightPay and Thesaurus Software.
BrightPay has invested significantly ahead of this change to support Irish SMEs through this transition.
How do we intend to create value?
We are partnering with the founder and team at BrightPay to support the business through its next phase of growth, as the business scales up in Ireland and internationally.
In the shortterm, we support BrightPay to be well positioned to win significant new customers adopting payroll software on the back of the new PAYE Modernisation payroll reform.
It is early days for Hgs investment in BrightPay, but several initiatives where Hg is supporting the management team are underway including refining customer outreach, improving the website and marketing strategy, especially ahead of Irish PAYE reform, addressing potential additional marketing channels and development of an outbound sales model, and updating the strategic plan.
The business is performing to plan with a positive outlook.
We should have good visibility on FY19 June year end financials by the end of April, as growth is linked to the start of the new tax years in Ireland January and the UK April.
In September 2018, the company won the highprofile AccountingWeb UK Payroll Software Product of the year award based on a survey of 13,000 accountants.
The Companys valuation of its stake in BrightPay is currently held at slightly above The Companys investment through its initial investment value.
HGT Transition Capital LP How will we crystallise value?
ie This structured equity investment has a term of 5 years.
The investment was Investment sector: Technology structured as redeemable preference shares, which have a minimum contracted Cluster: ERP & Payroll return and the Company may additionally receive an equity uplift upon redemption or sale.
Location: Ireland Investment date: Aug 2018 Residual cost 000 : 14,973 Unrealised value 000 : 15,477 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 14 63 63 Why did we invest?
Hg have extensive experience of investing in SMEfocused technology businesses and see an opportunity to continue to develop DADAs business in Italy and Business description across Europe both organically and through acquisitions.
DADA is one of the few remaining independently owned How do we intend to create value?
panEuropean mass hosting The completion of restructuring initiatives as well as a large amount of M&A companies and has a presence means the shape of the business is very different to what we initially acquired.
across several attractive European This has happened significantly earlier in our investment period than originally markets including Italy, UK, Spain, envisaged.
As a result, Hg is now working with the management team to formulate Portugal, and France.
DADA what could be achieved in the next three years to add further to the value that provides domains, website hosting has already been created.
We plan to support management more broadly in and email services to more than operational matters through introductions to Hgs network of executives and 650,000 customers.
The DADA involvement in the various events run by Hg throughout the year.
management team have built the business through extensive M&A What has been achieved?
since 2006, acquiring businesses Recent focus has been on supporting management to consolidate the six across Europe.
acquisitions the business made over the summer and realising the full benefits of this integration.
The acquisitions have primarily been founder owned and run businesses with less professional processes around sales and marketing, product development and systems.
Integrating these businesses fully into DADA will unlock both revenue and cost opportunities.
We are still early on in our investment period but, nevertheless, we have supported the business across a number of important initiatives including: recruiting a chair with local experience to help support the team at the Board level: and completing a refinancing of the business in July 2018 to help support acquisitions.
DADA has significantly outperformed the prior year, with very strong doubledigit sales and EBITDA, including the impact of M&A.
The Companys valuation of its stake in DADA has seen an increase over 2018, driven by continued strong trading.
HGT Mercury 2 LP We believe that DADA will have strategic value for large international website: www.
eu consolidators in the wider European hosting sector given its position in Italy, as well as in other European geographies.
Given the longer tail of M&A available in Investment sector: Technology some of DADAs geographies, we also expect the asset to be of interest to financial Cluster: SME Tech Services buyers interested in investing behind further buy and build opportunities.
Location: Italy Investment date: Nov 2017 Hg clients total equity: 80.0% Residual cost 000 : 3,800 Unrealised value 000 : 14,962 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 15 64 64 Why did we invest?
Allocate was previously owned by the Hg Mercury Fund which sold the business to Vista Equity Partners in April 2018.
When evaluating exit options for the Business description business in 2017, Hg felt there was still a substantial amount of nearterm value Allocate Software Allocate is creation in the UK business, as well as significant potential for international M&A a leading provider of workforce notably in the US and therefore, we were keen to participate in the next stage management software to the of Allocates growth.
healthcare sector and other Coownership with Vista, via Hg8, expands the opportunity to build Allocates complex regulated industries.
position in the US through M&A and strengthens the operational capabilities The core product is used for available to the business to help continue to improve its systems and processes.
workforce rostering, time and attendance management, and How do we intend to create value?
associated compliance workflows, The top priorities for the Board and management team are completing a systems such as monitoring and reporting replatforming exercise, implementing new ERP and CRM systems and on safe staffing levels.
The product modernising processes: driving the sales of new products CloudStaff and addresses a clear and increasingly Community and augmenting their offerings with the new acquisitions: investing pressing need for improved staff diligently in international markets to drive bookings in Germany, Australia and efficiency, regulatory compliance other markets: and executing M&A in accordance with M&A strategy.
and safety in the healthcare sector, and results in more effective What has been achieved?
The company In the second half of 2018, two strategic acquisitions were completed in the UK has a leading position in the UK, 247Time and Wambiz which provide contingent labour management and Sweden and Australia, and a very workforce engagement software, respectively.
247Time adds a software solution strong track record of renewals.
used by more than 40 NHS Trusts in order to manage efficiently their expenditure on agency workers.
The team plan to crosssell it into the Allocate customer base which should improve the longterm growth potential and increase the For a full case study on addressable market.
Allocate, please visit: https: hgcapital.
com caseHow is it performing?
studies #overlay case 4276 Allocate continues to see robust organic revenue and EBITDA growth, primarily driven by strong sales of the core product, Optima, in the UK Health segment.
We believe Allocate will be an attractive acquisition target for private equity The Companys investment through buyers as it has high levels of organic revenue growth, strong net revenue HGT 8 LP retention and high EBITDA margins.
There are also several potential trade buyers.
com Investment sector: Technology Cluster: Healthcare Location: UK Investment date: August 2018 Hg clients total equity: 50.0% Residual cost 000 : 13,959 Unrealised value 000 : 14,157 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 16 65 65 Why did we invest?
This investment represents a continuation of Hgs theme of investing in leading payroll and HRrelated businesses.
Raet demonstrates many of the business Business description model characteristics that Hg looks for, including: high levels of recurring revenue: Raet is a leading provider of high cash flow generation: strong customer loyalty: and a strong management Cloudbased payroll and Human team.
This investment is another example of the close cooperation between our Capital Management HCM teams, with the Genesis teams in London and Munich working closely together software and services.
Raets on the transaction, sharing resources and knowledge from prior transactions software is used by c. 10,000 clients in this space.
and supports HR processes for c. 3 million active users.
The How do we intend to create value?
business enjoys a strong historical Hg has supported the management team to accelerate growth in the Netherlands, base of customers in the with a greater focus on sales force effectiveness accelerating new wins and Netherlands where it is a leading improved customer engagement.
player in both the public and private There is an opportunity to deliver cash margin improvements through operating sectors, having expanded beyond leverage and efficiency gains available in R&D, service delivery and central its payroll heritage into a provider functions: and we see a significant opportunity to expand operations beyond the of a full suite of Cloudbased HCM core Netherlands market, both organically and through M&A and partnerships.
We see a substantial opportunity to leverage Raets expertise and technology In recent years, Raet has expanded across geographies and grow the scale of the addressable market.
its footprint internationally both organically and through M&A.
Hg has worked closely with Raet on the following initiatives: strengthening of the team, including a new CFO, Head of Marketing and other senior executives: a focus on cost and operations to deliver margin improvement: a drive to improve sales and marketing, sharing Hgs best practice from the Hg OI team: and support on M&A.
In 2018, Hg agreed the sale of the whole of Raets operations to Visma.
We strongly believe in the benefits of the integration and anticipated synergies.
The Raet holding structure remains, with the right to deferred consideration, of which the Companys share is 13.0 million.
The Companys Investment through HGT 7 LP website: www.
nl Investment sector: Technology Cluster: ERP & Payroll Location: The Netherlands Investment date: May 2016 Hg clients total equity: 100.0% Residual cost 000 : 15,419 Unrealised value 000 : 13,024 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 17 66 66 Why did we invest?
This investment, made from the Hg Mercury 2 Fund, recognises MediFoxs attractive business model characteristics, being a wellestablished player with Business description a strong position in a fragmented sector with structural fundamental growth for MediFox is a leading provider of the next decades, driven by the global mega trend of an ageing population.
software solutions to over 6,000 In addition, MediFox has a robust financial profile and a highly competent outpatient care services, elderly management team offering a businesscritical product.
We have followed the care homes and therapists in progress of MediFox for many years and recognise the strength of the business Germany.
It supports care providers and the opportunity for further growth, both organically and through acquisitions.
with key challenges including: Our expertise and focus on software and Healthcare IT, following previous resource and route planning, care investments in Allocate Software and Evaluate, along with our strong presence documentation, regulatory in Germany, means we are well placed to support management in taking the compliance and quality assurance business on to its next phase of growth.
of services provided, as well as invoicing, reimbursement and How do we intend to create value?
It is headquartered in We believe that the business has the ability to grow both organically and by Hildesheim, Germany and employs acquisition with current priorities for the Board and management team over the 275 people.
next 12 months including: review of existing product module priorities and planning processes: build up of digital demand generation engine: and looking to expand via inorganic growth.
For a full case study on Medifox, please visit: What has been achieved?
com caseThe investment in MediFox completed relatively recently in October 2018 but studies #overlay case 5115 there are a number of initiatives that Hg will support the management team over the next twelve months including: developing a fiveyear strategic plan to create a leading provider of software to the social economy in DACH, and potentially elsewhere in Europe, through doubledigit organic growth and M&A: and providing guidance and support from our OI team and external advisors for the various ongoing operational initiatives.
MediFox is seeing consistent doubledigit LTM sales and EBITDA growth.
The Companys valuation of its stake in MediFox is currently held slightly above The Companys investment through its initial investment value.
HGT Mercury 2 LP and co-investment through HGT LP How will we crystallise value?
MediFox is a highquality business with a strong financial profile and multiple website: www.
fide clearly identified growth paths: it is wellpositioned in a structural growth sector.
Investment sector: Technology As such, we expect MediFox to attract strong interest from both the financial and Cluster: Healthcare strategic investor communities.
With regard to trade buyers, there is a confirmed set of interested parties with whom we already have or seek to build a Location: Germany relationship ahead of the exit.
Investment date: Oct 2018 Hg clients total equity: 72.3% Residual cost 000 : 11,796 Unrealised value 000 : 12,926 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 18 67 67 Why did we invest?
Back in 2010, the TMT team sought to apply its experience of more mature markets Nordics, UK and Germany to the leader in a less developed market.
Business description The Italian business environment is characterised by high levels of frequently TeamSystem is a leading provider of changing regulation, and a high proportion of companies are SMEs.
businesscritical, regulatorydriven Also, the country has lower penetration of dedicatedpurpose software than Northern software products to accountants, Europe or the US.
These factors make Italy an attractive place to own a regulatory HR professionals and SMEs in Italy.
driven software business serving small professional services firms and SMEs.
Headquartered in Pesaro, the TeamSystem is highly predictable due to its businesscritical nature, strong company has a large and diversified customer loyalty and large, fragmented customer base.
It has 27 offices across Italy and employs How do we intend to create value?
In December 2015, Alongside organic growth, management has increased its cross selling of products Hg agreed to sell TeamSystem to to the existing client base through the use of addon modules such as reporting, Hellman and Friedman.
As part of analytics and payroll.
The potential to complete a number of bolton acquisitions the deal, Hg rolled over a small of complementary businesses in Italy was identified at acquisition.
minority stake in the business and retains a seat on the board.
Several improvement projects were identified post acquisition including: enhanced reporting and pricing, a revised product strategy, cash collection and TeamSystem produces detailed working capital improvement: investment in the M&A process: and sourcing new reporting on its website on a ways to grow the micro SME customer base.
quarterly basis: In 2013, TeamSystem completed its debt refinancing through the issue of a public https: investors.
bond, lowering borrowing costs and providing financial flexibility for M&A.
com quarterly reporting The focus on M&A led to the completion of eleven acquisitions, most recently in 2014, the acquisitions of ACG from IBM and Il Sole Software in a carveout from its parent company.
These acquisitions significantly increased TeamSystems presence in the SME and professional services markets.
TeamSystem saw improved momentum in 2018 which was mostly driven by stronger than expected Cloud sales, particularly in einvoicing, driven by a regulatory push.
Moreover, growth in onpremise products has been consistently The Companys investment through strong, sustained by increased software penetration among Italian SMEs.
HGT 6 LP Strong trading over the year has led to an increase of 1.5 million in the Companys valuation of its stake in TeamSystem.
com Investment sector: Technology How will we crystallise value?
In March 2016, Hg completed the sale of a majority interest in TeamSystem to Cluster: Tax & Accounting Hellman & Friedman.
This transaction resulted in cash proceeds to the Company Location: Italy of 39.0 million.
Since the initial acquisition, TeamSystem has returned 2.0x Investment date: Sep 2010 multiple on cost.
With the retained stake in the business, Hg look to benefit from the anticipated growth and drive a higher multiple of cost in due course.
Hg clients total equity: 7.4% TeamSystem will likely remain an attractive candidate for a financial buyer, Residual cost 000 : 144 or potentially for an IPO.
Unrealised value 000 : 12,211 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review 19 68 68 Why did we invest?
Achilles is a subscriptionbased network business model with significant recurring revenue streams.
It is a leading company in supply chain data, with stable growth Business description driven by the increasing need for risk management.
Achilles is a businesscritical DataasaService DaaS provider How do we intend to create value?
of supply chain information that With high levels of contracted revenue, Achilles position as a global, scalable allows global purchasing business model has considerable potential in revenue and margin growth, as well organisations in industries with as multiple opportunities for expansion into new geographies and industries.
complex regulatory requirements What has been achieved?
It is a technologyenabled business We have made a significant investment into the business, focusing on the model, whereby a network of development of their technology, processes and sales to support global growth buyers in a certain vertical industry which is now being evidenced.
e. g. UK utilities, Scandinavian How is it performing?
require We have completed the recruitment of a highquality management team who will their key suppliers to qualify to deliver a strong exit for Hgs investment.
The team have already made material a set of standardised information improvements to the cost base by restructuring lower contribution communities, in the Achilles DaaS platform.
and through the 2018 financial year have evidenced material new client wins As the network operator, Achilles buyer and supplier.
In addition, Achilles has unified its technology offering which provides value to both suppliers has enhanced delivery and margins.
and buyers and, for suppliers, it is 2019 financial performance will establish a base for an exit in the medium term.
often mandatory to join if they wish As we look towards exit, the companys core objectives are to continue organic to supply the buyer industry revenue growth, whilst defending and improving margins.
Both buyers and suppliers pay annual subscription fees for this How will we crystallise value?
There has been strong interest in Achilles from both strategic and private equity Achilles currently operates more buyers and the businesss recurring revenue base is likely to maintain this interest than 30 vertical market throughout the economic cycle.
The Companys investment and co-investment through HGT LP website: www.
com Investment sector: Technology Cluster: Legal & Compliance Location: UK Investment date: Jul 2008 Hg clients total equity: 63.0% Residual cost 000 : 17,298 Unrealised value 000 : 11,847 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information 20 69 69 Why did we invest?
Citation operates in the regulatorydriven compliance services sector for SMEs in the UK, which is structurally growing at high singledigit rates and is materially Business description underpenetrated.
Under the current management team, the business built out a The Citation Group provides strong sales and marketing function which has driven doubledigit organic growth.
longterm, subscriptionbased Citation is one of the highest quality and largest businesses in this sector, noted for compliance HR, employment law its high levels of customer satisfaction resulting in sectorleading retention rates.
and health & safety and quality ISO certification and supplier How do we intend to create value?
verification services to over 40,000 We believe that Citations role providing businesscritical solutions to customers, SMEs throughout the UK.
In doing backed up by industry leading customer satisfaction scores, provides the platform so, it helps SMEs navigate the to become a trusted partner to SMEs, which enables the group to provide further critical and complex regulatory adjacent solutions to deepen this relationship and accelerate growth further.
environment with which they need Over the next 12 months, Hg will be focused on supporting Citation to implement to comply through its proprietary this value creation plan through: developing new products to crosssell into the Atlas technology platform and by existing customer base: together with the OI team implementing a number of data providing 24 7 advice from analytics projects focused on lead scoring optimisation and unified group KPI highlyskilled and qualified experts.
reporting: as well as identifying further accretive M&A targets, building on the track record over the last three years.
For a full case study on What has been achieved?
Citation, please visit: The management team, with the support of Hg, have launched several initiatives https: hgcapital.
com casefocused on improving lead generation, developing new products and services studies #overlay case 3695 to sell to existing customers and improving financial reporting, budgeting and controls.
Five acquisitions have been completed since we first invested, including for example: EPM, a provider of HR compliance services for the UK education market: SMAS, a provider of supplier quality assessment subscription services and SolutionHost Group, a provider of H&S and HR compliance software for micro SMEs.
All acquisitions are highly complementary to Citation and provide significant opportunities for synergies and crosssell between the customer bases, by building out the groups range of services.
Citation continues to grow organically at double digit rates, with consistently The Companys investment through increasing net revenue retention and industryleading customer acquisition HGT 7 LP metrics.
Strong trading over 2018 has led to an increase of 4.4 million in the website: www.
co. uk Companys valuation of its stake in Citation.
Investment sector: Services How will we crystallise value?
Cluster: Legal & Compliance Citations regulatory driven services and longterm subscriptionbased revenue model, delivered to a fragmented customer base, will continue to attract private Location: UK equity interest at exit.
In addition, there are also a number of potential trade Investment date: Mar 2016 exit opportunities.
Hg clients total equity: 75.3% Residual cost 000 : 7,904 Unrealised value 000 : 11,564 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
