Hgs review Hgs review Other investments Many of our businesses outside the top 20 are also performing very well.
Many of these are within the Hg Mercury Funds, which invest in smaller technology companies with EVs of between 50 million and 250 million.
The Mercury investments are seeing strong doubledigit growth in both revenues and profits across its portfolio.
They also sit firmly in Hgs sweetspot, with a high level of recurring revenues, businesscritical products, fragmented customer and competitor bases and low exposure to economic cycles.
The vast majority of our investments have been into founderowned businesses, and we have a strong proprietary pipeline of investment opportunities.
70 70 21 P&I is a leading provider of integrated software solutions for Human Resources Management web: www.
com to the German and European Mittelstand.
The business delivers payroll, core HR, human capital management, time and attendance as well as analytics to 15,000 customers across Sector: Technology DACH and 11 further European countries via an integrated and highly automated private Cloudbased platform.
Hg took P&I private via a public takeover offer in 2013 and reinvested into the business in 2016 alongside Permira.
22 STP is a leading provider of insolvency and law practice software in Germany.
fide and headquartered in Karlsruhe, the business employs more than 100 people serving over 1,000 legal customers with critical software.
STPs core business provides software solutions Sector: Technology for insolvency law firms where it has a leading position in the German market.
In recent years, STP launched a legal practice management software suite which is growing strongly.
In addition, the company offers an online portal in the insolvency space and has a document management software product which it sells into both the insolvency market, as well as in combination with its practice management software.
In October, the Mercury team refinanced STP, returning 1.3 million to the Company.
STP continues to see positive performance.
23 In October, Hg completed the acquisition of majority ownership of Orion Healths Rhapsody web: www.
health business and an investment in Orion Healths Population Health business.
Healthcare technology is a core investment area for Hg, having completed a number of transactions Sector: Technology across the sector.
This investment was made from the Hg Mercury 2 Fund.
The combination of Rhapsodys global team and Hgs resources will extend Rhapsody as a leader in the interoperability platform space, building on both Rhapsodys worldclass technology and highly rated customer service.
24 Eucon consists of two business units: Automotive and Digital Services.
fide The Automotive division is a leading provider of automotive parts pricing and reference data Sector: Technology to vehicle and parts manufacturers globally.
Eucon collects, processes and supplies crucial data to support its customers in managing their parts and aftermarket operations.
The Digital Services division is a highly automated claims management service to insurers in Germany as well as data extraction tools for Real Estate clients.
In the insurance claims management business, Eucon assists insurers in achieving lasting reductions in claims expenditure through the sophisticated automation of claims processes and the application of structured data, for both car insurance and property insurance claims.
In addition to this, Digital Services helps Real Estate clients automate data extraction, leveraging AI and machine learning capabilities.
Eucon has c. 400 staff and is headquartered in Germany with an additional office in the USA.
The business serves nearly 250 clients operating in 40 countries.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Other investments continued 25 EidosMedia is a leading global provider of highvalue enterprise content management web: www.
com ECM solutions for the media and financial services industries.
Its Cloudenabled ECM platform, Mthode, is used daily by 30,000 content authors across more than 600 titles Sector: Technology globally to create and deliver content across mobile, web and print channels.
EidosMedias software enables real time, simultaneous creation and customisation of media text, financials, images and video, content management, and omnichannel distribution.
Headquartered in Milan, EidosMedia serves a global client base with a focus on Western Europe and the US with c. 90% of its revenues generated outside of Italy.
71 71 26 Evaluate is a leading provider of commercial data to the Life Science industry.
com supplies critical information for complex commercial decisions to pharmaceutical companies and their advisors.
Sector: Technology The core information includes historical and forecast revenue at a product, indication, or geographic level, enriched with clinical trial, patent, pricing, and patient data.
This is important for users in business development, licensing and corporate strategy.
Data is collected from c. 200 organisations directly and indirectly, reported financials, and government data sources, and Evaluate creates value by normalising, structuring and continuously updating this information into a single consistent dataset.
In December, the Mercury team completed a refinancing, returning 0.8 million to the Company.
During 2018, positive trading performance has led to a small uplift of 1.0 million in the valuation of the Companys stake in Evaluate.
27 Trace Ones Cloud solutions enable global retailers and suppliers to collaborate and develop web: www.
com highquality, trusted and compliant private label products.
The platform is critical for helping Sector: Technology retailers and suppliers to manage innovation, product safety, traceability and quality.
Trace One serves a blue chip customer base of more than 25 leading retailers, across Europe and North America, with data on 20,000 member manufacturers.
The business has a particularly strong footprint in France, serving seven of the top eight food retailers in the country.
In July, the Mercury team completed a refinancing, returning 5.7 million to the Company.
28 Noventic formerly QUNDIS supplies a full data management solution for the housing and web: www.
com utilities industries to collect, measure, and transmit consumption dependent data for heating and water usage on an apartment unit level.
Sector: Technology In May 2017, the Munich team completed the sale of QUNDIS to Noventic, retaining a minority position in the combined group.
29 Gentrack is a provider of businesscritical software including billing and CRM for utilities and web: www.
com management systems for airports.
Gentracks shares are listed on the NZX and ASX markets and Hg is the largest institutional shareholder in the business.
Gentrack focuses on utilities in Sector: Technology Australia, New Zealand and the UK and airports globally.
This investment is valued at its market price.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review Other investments continued 72 72 Renewable energy Asper has built a portfolio of highquality projects on time Website: http: asperim.
com and on budget and operational performance remains Investment sector: Renewable Energy ahead of the investment case across all platforms.
Location: Europe However, financial returns have been materially reduced by Residual cost 000 : 26,059 retroactive tariff changes in Spain and depressed power prices in Sweden between 20102013.
Since 2014 the Asper Unrealised value 000 : 22,032 team has been working on a value recovery plan centred on: The Company has investments in two renewable energy investments in and realisations from the portfolio assets funds: Asper RPP I and Asper RPP II.
These fund unaffected by the adverse events: investments continue to be overseen by the Manager but arbitration proceedings against Spain for the retroactive are managed by a specialist renewable energy team tariff changes: and formerly at Hg.
debt restructuring of distressed projects.
On 30 November 2017, the team transitioned to Asper, a The NAV has increased in 2018, thanks to positive newly formed independent investment management firm.
developments in the arbitrations against Spain, including This transition had been in preparation for close to two successful investor awards in similar claims.
years and is in line with the strategic plans of both Hg and The Asper team is hard at work to increase NAV further and the Asper team.
Asper uses private equity skills to identify, crystallise value.
acquire and build high quality European renewable energy projects.
Investment returns in this asset class are generated through a combination of yield during operation and capital gain at refinancing or exit.
By bringing individual investments together into platforms, Asper enhances value through economies of scale, shared expertise and aggregated generation capacity.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
