Hgs review Hgs review About Hg Years of Investment Funds under investing Staff professionals management 25 150 90 c. 10bn 20 20 Overview Hg began life as Mercury Private Equity, the private equity more than 100 highly regarded institutional investors.
arm of Mercury Asset Management plc.
Mercury Asset These include private and public pension funds, Management was acquired by Merrill Lynch in 1997. endowments, insurance companies and funds of funds, In December 2000, the executives of Mercury Private investing alongside the Company.
Equity negotiated independence from Merrill Lynch, We have progressively invested in and strengthened the and Hg was established as a fully independent partnership, business of Hg over the years, to establish a significant owned entirely by its Partners and employees.
Since then, Hg has worked hard to develop a unique culture The Company is the largest client of Hg, which has been and approach setting us apart from other investors.
contracted to manage the Companys assets since 1994 Were committed to building ambitious businesses across and offers investors a liquid investment vehicle, through the technology and services space.
which they can obtain exposure to Hgs diversified network With investment offices in London and Munich and over of unquoted investments with minimal administrative 150 employees, including more than 90 investment burdens, no longterm lock up or minimum size of professionals, further enhanced by the considerable investment, and with the benefit of an independent board experience of close to 20 Operating Partners, we have and associated corporate governance.
The Company is funds of close to 10 billion under management, serving committed to invest in parallel with all of Hgs current funds.
One strategy over four funds across the size range in technology and service businesses Fundraising activity has seen Hg close on c. 4.5 billion of institutional capital in the last two years, across four distinct funds.
The Company has made commitments to invest on the same financial terms as institutional investors in all of these Hg funds.
Team Year Focus Characteristics Fund size: 1.5 billion Largecap 2018 Typical hold: 400 million 500 million EVs focus: 1 billion Target number of investments: c. 4 Fund size: 2.5 billion 1 Midmarket 2018 Typical hold: 100 million 250 million EVs: 250 million 1 billion Target number of investments: c. 12 Fund size: 575 million Lower midmarket 2017 Typical hold: 30 million 60 million EVs: 50 million 250 million Target number of investments: c. 12 2 Fund size: 75 million Lower midmarket 2018 Typical hold: 15 million 30 million EVs: 50 million 250 million Target number of investments: c. 3 1 The Genesis team are currently working on investing the Hg8 fund.
2 The Company is the sole investor in this strategy.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information About Hg continued We focus our investments in technology and service businesses with specific business characteristics that we believe have the ability to grow across market cycles and are attractive to future buyers Nic Humphries, Senior Partner, Hg 21 21 Investment strategy Clear investment criteria Hg has a flexible approach to investing, primarily focused Hg applies a rigorous approach when evaluating all on defensive growth buyouts in technology and service investment opportunities.
Our objective is to invest in businesses in specific endmarket clusters with enterprise the most attractive businesses, rather than be constrained values EVs of 50 million to over 1 billion by a topdown asset allocation.
predominantly, but not exclusively, in the UK and We seek companies that share similar characteristics, Northern Europe.
such as: high levels of recurring or contracted revenues: These companies typically provide opportunities for a product or service that is businesscritical but typically strategic and operational improvement and offer multiple lowspend: low customer concentration: high customer exit options across market cycles, but with the scale and loyalty and low sensitivity to market cycles: and often potential to attract highquality management.
providing a platform for merger and acquisition M&A opportunities.
We believe these markets offer a high volume of investment opportunities with proven financial We believe that these companies have the potential performance and strong market positions.
The Hg Sweetspot business model A clear and robust business model focused on longterm consistent growth predominantly through investment in buyouts with a Northern European angle.
Hg business model Deep sector Focused on endsweet-spot attributes knowledge market clusters Tax & Accounting Business-critical need delivered as software, service or component ERP & Payroll Legal & Compliance Technology Subscription or repeat revenue model Automotive SWEETServices SME Tech Services SPOT Utilising years of accumulated IP high margins Healthcare Capital Markets & Wealth Management Fragmented customer base Insurance HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review About Hg continued Sector specialists in technology and services Our experience means we can recognise the specific challenges faced by management teams and the knowhow required to support them to deliver business success.
We specialise in investing in technology and service companies focused on eight core end markets or clusters, with enterprise values of between 50 million and more than 1 billion.
We offer a level of understanding, expertise and commercial drive you wont find anywhere else.
We invest primarily in two We primarily focus on eight core end Current 22 22 Exited main market sectors: markets to build deep knowhow Tax & Accounting ERP & Payroll Technology Technology is our largest sector of investment.
We focus on businesses providing B2B vertical market application software and data, regulatory software and fintech and internet infrastructure.
Legal & Compliance Automotive We have invested in highquality, market leaders which have strong and defensible sector positions, diverse customer bases, and which feature subscriptionbased business models generating predictable revenues and cash flows.
With more than 20 technology companies in our portfolio, we bring a unique set of networks and insights to help support value creation SME Tech Services Healthcare in our businesses.
Services Our services investments focus on companies with high levels of intellectual property, large fragmented customer bases, longterm and stable customer relationships, and businesses Capital Markets & Wealth Management Insurance which provide businesscritical services, preferably on a repeat or recurrent basis.
We target businesses with sector leading positions within a niche, and we aim to grow and scale these businesses, either organically within existing markets or through acquisitions.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information About Hg continued Hg Insight: The Transition to SaaS Transforming the software industry 23 23 SoftwareasaService SaaS is transforming the software By relieving its customers of much of the burden of installing, integrating and operating software, Vismas SaaS products industry.
Whilst pureplay newcomers receive considerable deliver a better proposition at a lower overall IT cost.
attention, the transformation of an existing franchise can be just as valuable.
Crucially, investors benefit from faster growth and higher multiples, as SaaS catalyses rapid adoption and new Visma is in a rare group of companies that have delivered revenue opportunities.
We show below Vismas swift such a transformation, leveraging a combination of organic evolution in this process, and also the profile at key US investment and M&A to pivot its business to a SaaSled listed peer Intuit, where a similar mix shift has coincided model, thus creating a Europeancentric SaaS provider that with a doubling of its EV:Sales valuation multiple.
to our knowledge is second only to SAP in terms of scale of SaaS revenue.
David Toms, Technology Research Director, Hg Visma SaaS revenue as % of all Intuit % SaaS revenue software revenue vs EV:Sales multiple 70% 50% 10 67% 60% 64% 40% 8 50% 53% 30% 6 40% 40% 30% 32% 20% 4 25% 20% 21% 17% 10% 2 10% Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: Hg analysis, company filings, Factset By relieving its customers of much of the burden of installing, integrating and operating software, Vismas SaaS products deliver a better proposition at a lower overall IT cost.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 % SaaS revenue 1-year fwd EV: Sales Hgs review Hgs review About Hg continued By continuing to invest in our people and our expertise, we are able to work with the best management teams in our target clusters and actively help them to build great businesses Steven Batchelor, Chief Operating Officer, Hg 24 24 Our team Positioning ourselves as a bestinclass recruiter Hgs recruitment and selection processes are rigorous Hg succeeds through the analysis and and agile which, along with our strong brand, leadership, understanding of new and emerging dynamics sector focus, fund performance and vibrant culture, allows in the clusters in which it invests.
This requires us to attract and hire the best talent in our industry.
profound knowledge of technology, markets and business practices.
To this end, we employ Improving our ability to identify talent exceptionally talented teams to identify and execute We have enhanced our talent processes so that we can investment opportunities and accelerate value identify and accelerate the development of our top creation during our ownership.
performers and high potential talent within the business.
We believe that this is the basis of effective This specialisation both in investment selection career and succession planning.
and portfolio management requires significant resources and we have built a business employing Employee engagement over 150 people, including over 90 investment and Our people are highly motivated by, and committed other professionals.
to, delivering outstanding value to the Company, our Our people come from a range of backgrounds and other institutional clients, and our portfolio company experience including private equity, consulting, leadership teams.
They are engaged by their work, investment banking, accounting and industry our values and the opportunity to grow to their full specialists.
Supporting these inhouse resources potential within Hg.
are Hgs Operating Partners, a group of senior Our values have evolved over many years and are individuals with many years of experience in embodied in our working culture: these are aligned operational and strategic roles, as well as individuals with our performance and reward structures.
with strong functional expertise in a variety of Hg works hard to ensure our employees are engaged.
In addition, they have all worked with Hg We use independent external benchmarks to gauge and other private equity firms over long periods.
levels of engagement and take appropriate actions Investing primarily in European businesses, many to ensure highest possible levels of engagement.
of which have a global footprint, requires time and We have a strong focus on career and development a deep understanding of local cultures.
Accordingly, and provide a range of development solutions to our people come from around the globe, including enable our talent to reach their full potential.
sixteen European countries and the USA.
Our Developing future leaders Partners have, on average, fifteen years experience in the management of private businesses.
We are explicit about the behaviours we wish to encourage at Hg and have aligned recruitment, training, coaching, performance and rewards to our A description of Hgs key staff is available at values for everybody across the organisation, www.
com meet-us including our leadership.
Level 20 is a notforprofit organisation that was started a few years ago with the aim of inspiring more women to join and succeed in the European private equity industry.
Nic Humphries, Senior Partner, Hg, is a member of the Level 20 Advisory Council.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information About Hg continued Working together By virtue of the fact that Hg repeatedly invests in specific functions through our Operating Partner relationships.
business models, our dedicated Operations Innovation In other instances, most of the support comes through OI Team has been able to tailor a differentiated approach introducing management teams to their counterparts in to driving value creation during our ownership.
Following other Hg companies, specifically those who have faced each investment, our OI team works with management to the same challenges.
focus on a set of operational levers that are key to One of the most powerful ways the OI team motivates performance in an Hg sweetspot business model: sales, change is through peertopeer collaboration.
In 2018, digital marketing, pricing, customer success, IT and data over 700 portfolio company executives attended 14 forums analytics.
For each of these levers, the OI team has codified hosted by Hg.
These executives spent days together sharing the Hg experience and bestpractices into set plays that and adopting each others best practices.
Across these Hg 25 25 are deployed together with management.
forums, Allocate explained how they achieved a tremendous Every company gets full access to the team upfront, step forward in Customer Success, Visma explained how to but the nature of support can take a variety of forms.
build inhouse capabilities to complete and integrate 20 Often, members of our OI team provide direct support, acquisitions a year and Sovos presented a methodology to taking on roles to help the company pursue growth more hire and retain the very best technology talent.
Other times, our experienced operators will mentor we also hosted a diversity forum, specifically focused on senior executives, helping them build more scalable rising female leaders in our portfolio companies.
This is not your grandmothers private equity.
Progressive PE firms like Hg are doing things differently, focusing on growth, playing a longer game and, most importantly, embracing the power of the portfolio to help each business acquire the knowledge and skills required to lead their market.
Im grateful to be part of it.
Eric Olson, Chief Marketing Officer of Sovos Collaboration To enable the continued collaboration across the portfolio, collaboration is unparalleled.
Individuals are able to pose Hg launched Hive, its online trusted environment, in 2018. questions, start discussions, share and collaborate on Hive far exceeds the capabilities that any other private content, and have access to best practice playbooks equity firm currently offers to its portfolio.
With 10 live from worldclass experts.
This is a clear differentiator communities and over 400 members, peertopeer in the market.
10 400 live active members communities and growing!
For further information, please visit hive.
com HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review About Hg continued Hg Insight: Customer success Building your customer capabilities to unlock value in your business 26 26 The idea is simple: successful customers are your best customers.
They adopt and use your product as it was intended when you developed it to solve one of their key business issues.
This, in turn, makes them more successful as a business This is one area that Hg can help with and many of our and they value this.
They renew their subscriptions and buy companies are now well underway on this journey.
more from you when you release additional products and Its a complex and crossfunctional problem but getting services.
They accept price changes as a product develops it right can unlock meaningful business value.
and recognise fair exchange of value.
They advocate you One of the underlying problems that weve identified is the amongst their peers and positively endorse your product lack of alignment across an organisation.
Functions operate and services helping you win new business.
in siloes, because thats a good way of organising As a result, your revenue grows not just when you add individuals with different skillsets.
But customer outcomes new customers but because you lose less revenue from and customer experiences are created through many customers who would otherwise leave you or downgrade.
touchpoints and over a period of time.
Product technology You also generate more expansion revenue, e. g. from upsell isnt geared up to deliver insights on whether customers and crosssell.
Business IT systems and the data within them are created and maintained with individual, Of course, its easier said than done.
Products arent always functional users in mind.
Traditional management built with the user in mind.
Expectations about what your information does not tell you much about the quality of the product or service will do arent always set clearly in the initial endtoend experience your customers are receiving, or marketing and sales process.
Onboarding and professional whether they are achieving their business outcomes.
services dont always lead to good adoption.
Customers Which makes it hard for you to manage as well.
dont always get the support they need along the way.
When you are providing compliance services solutions to other businesses, you are providing something that is absolutely critical for that company.
As such, customer satisfaction and trust are crucial.
Once you have established trust, customers often see what other services you can help them with and what other problems you can help solve.
Chris Morris, CEO of Citation For further insights from Hg, please refer to www.
com our-thinking HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information About Hg continued Together.
At this years Hg Customer Success Forum, 38 executives from across Hgs portfolio, as well as a number of external experts and practitioners, came together to share tangible knowledge and experience and to commit to specific actions to build their customerfocused business capabilities and realise results.
Speakers from Allocate Software and Access Group shared perspectives on their customer success journey to date.
We also heard from independent advisers David Jackson, Jason Noble and the Customer Success leader at ATRAQT software, Jonathan Schradi.
Make sure your customers realise value from your product or service, and in turn, create 27 27 Its all business value through growing customer revenue by optimising sales and pricing.
A key metric for the latter is net revenue retention NRR and the goal is to drive this above the inflection point about value.
of 100%, which will meaningfully change the value of your customer base and your business.
If you dont This is true for both customer outcomes and experience, as well as realising your business value.
measure it, you Metrics are key they allow you to prioritise activity, demonstrate impact and further your career as an executive.
Everyone in the company has a role to play in and a responsibility for customer success.
Its a If you have a customer success function, they can help break down siloes and make connections team sport.
but you will fail if they are the only ones thinking about the customer.
Its a journey It is best to prioritise.
For example, start first with Net Promoter Score NPS, then customer get started health scoring for churn prediction, then up crosssell propensity etc.
Chop off the tip of the iceberg, then deal with the next section that subsequently emerges.
Be ready for the Once you start listening to your customers, be prepared to get some uncomfortable news.
worms once you But remember, critics make you stronger!
It is worth investing in and safeguarding.
Creating a single view of the customer and starting Customer to generate insight might seem complex, but its a challenge you can overcome!
data is an Whether its using Excel, embarking on a data engineering project, or on IT systems changes important asset.
there is something you can start doing today.
Ultimately, Thats what your customers are buying in the first place.
Make sure you continuously leverage its all about insights from increased customer intimacy to improve your product or service making it easier your product for customers to adopt, use and obtain value.
Can you create a driverless experience to obtain or service.
We work with executive and sales teams across our portfolio to encourage Customer Success as a strategy and a business practice.
From using detailed analytics to understand the causes of customer loss, through to creating processes to monitor customer health, taking proactive action to manage both highrisk and healthy customers, as well as addressing the root causes of existing customer issues, we provide handson support and genuine expertise, thereby bringing the value of Customer Success to the businesses we partner with.
Joachim Kiefer, Hg Operations Innovation team HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review About Hg continued Case study: Building one of the UKs most trusted providers of businesscritical software Hg first invested in IRIS in 2004, backing a longterm thesis on the growth of software for small and medium sized enterprises SMEs and for professionals.
Since then, Hg has worked with IRIS to invest in Cloud technology and transition the business to a SoftwareasaService SaaS model.
28 28 IRIS Software Group is a leading UK provider of businesscritical software website: www.
co. uk solutions for compliance and regulatory driven industries, such as the Investment sector: Technology accountancy, education, bookkeeping and Human Capital Management markets.
Cluster: Tax & Accounting Over the last decade, IRIS has become one of the most trusted providers of businesscritical software and services to SMEs and accounting professionals Location: United Kingdom in the UK today.
Over 21,000 accountancy practices, 10,000 schools academies and more than 80,000 SMEs, corporates and payroll bureaux rely on IRIS to run their businesses every day.
Whilst partnering with Hg, IRIS has shown strong, consistent growth of 17% p. a. over 17 years and completed over 15 acquisitions.
IRIS EV has grown from Both revenue 102 million in 2004 to over 1.4 billion today nearly 14x.
and EBITDA CAGR A 15year partnership in value creation Creating a UK software champion in regulatory and compliance software IRIS is one of the earliest examples of Hgs focus on businesscritical software 17% firms operating in attractive, predictable end markets.
IRIS is a UK software since 2002 champion, operating a business model with over 85% of revenues coming from subscriptions.
High customer retention rates are driven by consistent regulatory updates and new additional features delivered as part of the annual subscription.
By understanding the fundamental characteristics of IRIS and its market, Hg formed a longterm thesis on the secular growth of software for the Tax & Growth Accounting sector and developed a cluster investment strategy to make of EV multiple investments into different companies in this sector.
Hg has invested in 11 platform companies in this cluster and made more than 200 acquisitions in this space over the last 15 years.
We own businesses worth over $9bn in this sector including IRIS, Visma and Sovos, all growing faster than their quoted 1,000% peer group.
This clustered investment focus gives us unique insights and experience 102m to 1.4bn which benefit the companies we back, their customers and their employees.
IRIS and Hg working together IRIS started life providing software only to accounting practices.
Management and Hg realised that they could grow their own business, and help their core Increase in customers, by also providing software to their customers SMEs that were employee served by the accounting practices.
Through several strategic acquisitions in numbers bookkeeping, payroll, HR and education Hg helped IRIS to realise this ambition and expand its addressable market by 600%.
Through its experience with other software businesses, and its US West Coast 200% contact network, Hg understood the potential of SaaS and Cloud technology earlier than most European investors.
As early as 2007, Hg pushed IRIS 500 to 1,500 both to develop Cloud products and to buy others.
Today, the majority of IRIS customers have access to Cloud products, with over three million individual users and 30% of group revenues being derived from these products.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information About Hg continued Transitioning to one of the UKs largest SaaS companies 15 years of strong performance By continually being ahead of technology trends, and being prepared to reconsider and refocus IRIS every few years, management and Hg have delivered 15 years of consistently strong performance.
Over this time, revenues and EBITDA have grown organically at over 10% p. a.
Total growth including M&A has averaged 17% p. a. organic revenue and, over this fifteen year period, IRIS has grown every single year, including through the Global Financial Crisis it has never had a negative growth quarter in any of that time.
2004 201 1 2012 2017 2018 onwards Reinforcing a  to SaaS Future ambitions 29 29 based model, introducing and further Repeating the new products and M&A accretive M&A Growth Playbook Hg recognises the value of highly Hgs decision to reinvest in IRIS in IRIS has applied a repeatable growth recurring, businesscritical, 2011 was driven by a belief that the playbook into new sectors, providing subscription software.
business could continue to deliver core regulatory and compliance During the initial phase of Hgs over 10% p. a. revenue and EBITDA products at the heart of a customers investment, the aim was to increase growth by using its very high business operations, consistently for the percentage of subscription customer engagement to deliver over 20 years.
IRIS benefits from a renewals and sector share in IRISs more new products and services via trusted position driving the adoption core accounting practice business.
of new functionality and modules to As well as maintaining this solid existing clients: it remains IRIS expanded into new areas for revenue growth, Hg helped IRIS to wellpositioned to continue this core accounting practice customers sellthrough additional products and growth for many years to come, e. g. website management, online services into the existing practice accelerated by Cloud technologies.
client portals, Cloud document client base, providing clients with both storage and also further penetrated IRIS scale allows it to invest in state the best core product in its market the SME market growing IRIS SME oftheart infrastructure, including and a wider choice of other modules payroll base and developing new Cloud IT and related analytics.
and functionality than any competitor.
propositions in both Cloud Artificial intelligence AI embedded In addition to developing new bookkeeping and HR.
into customer products is enhancing products, Hg also supported a series customer experience and the ability to Transitioning to a SaaS model was a of M&A transactions, focusing on analyse and understand their pools of key part of this, with many of these strategically complementary products data, IRIS internal use of AI is newer products developed internally for SME customers payroll, HRM and improving operational efficiency and as Cloudbased, complemented by bookkeeping.
From an organisational enriching customer service experiences.
point of view, by dividing IRIS into clearly AI and Cloud will be the fundamentals defined units with different management that drive the next wave of growth for teams focused on accounting practices m IRIS for the next 510 years.
and SMEs Hg was able to achieve tight 160 SalesEBITDA customer focus and intimacy, which drove superior performance.
140 140.0 120 Hg is Europes leading 113.7 software investor, that means 100 they truly understand our 98.1 80 business.
They have enabled 85.5 us to develop bestinclass 60 64.0 67.4 products, continuously improve 60.2 55.2 customer service and extend 52.1 50.9 40 47.4 45.2 our product portfolio, through 40.5 34.5 30.8 20 29.5 29.9 strategic acquisitions in new 27.3 and existing markets.
