Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Reports from the Committees of the Board These Reports from the Committees of the Board form part of the Corporate Governance Statement.
Board committees and as part of the annual evaluation process and it was felt The Board has delegated a number of areas of that it was appropriate that every nonexecutive Director responsibility to its committees.
should be a member of all committees.
During the period under review, all the Directors of the After the final Audit and Valuation Committee meeting in Company were nonexecutive and served on each committee 2018, the Company has entered the FTSE 250 index.
Each Director is considered independent of considered appropriate that the Chairman of the Company Hg, having had no previous or current connection with the continues to be a member of the Committee, in particular investment management of the Company, other than in in light of the Committees responsibility for reviewing the their capacity as a Director of the Company, and are further valuations of the Companys investments.
considered to be independent in mind and judgement.
With a relatively small Board, it was deemed both The composition of the Boards standing committees was proportionate and practical to involve all the independent considered by the Nomination Committee during the year Directors in each committee.
Audit and Valuation Committee report Chairman: Richard Brooman Key responsibilities: 1 Considering and scrutinising the halfyearly and annual valuations as prepared by the Manager: 2 Reviewing the Companys risk management systems and internal controls: 3 Monitoring compliance with regulations: 4 Reviewing the integrity and content of the Financial Statements, including the ongoing viability of the Company: 5 Assessing external auditor objectivity and independence: and 6 Reviewing the performance and remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee has continued to support the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing the financial reporting process, the system of internal control and management of risk, the audit process and the procedures for 11 11 55 monitoring compliance.
Membership of the Audit and Valuation Committee During 2018, all of the Directors of the Company have been members of this Committee enabling them to be kept fully informed of any issues that may arise and to participate fully in discussions on portfolio valuation.
After the final Committee meeting in 2018, the Company has entered the FTSE 250 index.
During the year, the composition of the Committee has been considered by the Nomination Committee.
Having regard to the AIC Codes recommendations as they affect large investment companies, it was deemed appropriate that the Chairman of the Company continued to be a member of the Committee, recognising the value brought with his continuity and experience, in particular with respect of the biannual review of the proposed valuations of the Companys investments.
All of the members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience across a broad range of sectors and areas of practice and the Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to private equity investment.
The external auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton, is invited to attend and present at Audit and Valuation Committee meetings and meets several times each year with the Committee and its Chairman, without representatives of Hg being present.
Valuations The Committee considers carefully the methodology and the integrity of the recommended valuations of each of the Companys investments prepared by Hg and reviews analytical and performance data, as well as the valuation process.
The valuations are carried out in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Reports from the Committees of the Board continued Risk management and internal controls The Committee is responsible for reasonably satisfying itself that: the Companys risk management system remains appropriate and effective: the assessment of the principal risks facing the Company undertaken annually is robust and includes those risks that would threaten the Companys business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the accounting and internal control systems of the Company, Hg, the Depositary and other service providers are adequate: Hg sets the appropriate control culture by communicating the importance of internal control and risk management both internally and across its portfolio and ensures that all relevant employees have an understanding of their roles and responsibilities: the systems put in place by Hg specifically accounting and internal control systems meet legal and regulatory requirements, initiating further investigations as it sees fit to assess the effectiveness of the systems of control: and matters of compliance are under proper review: the Directors regularly review the relevant policies and have direct access to the Compliance Officer at Hg and receive a report on a biannual basis, confirming that the Companys affairs have been conducted in compliance with the applicable regulations.
The Committee regularly reviews the suitability of the Companys processes for mapping and monitoring risks and an ongoing process has been established, in conjunction with Hg and Link, for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys significant risks.
Throughout the year, the Committee received updates from Hg in respect of possible risks and opportunities arising from Brexit, including potential effects on the Company, Hg and portfolio businesses.
Controls relating to the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, are embedded in the operations of Hg, Link and other outsourced service providers.
There is a monitoring and reporting process to review controls put in place to track risks identified, carried out by the Compliance function within Hg and the auditors of the other organisations.
Hg reports to the Committee on its review of internal controls formally on a semiannual basis and verbal updates are provided at each Committee meeting.
During the year, the Company has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems.
The Board reviews the whistle blowing procedures and antibribery and corruption policies of Hg on a regular basis.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee also annually considers whether an internal audit function should be established.
Taking into account that the Company is an investment company with no employees, the Committee concluded that it remained appropriate for the Company to rely on the internal controls implemented by Hg and other thirdparty providers and not have an internal audit function.
Financial reporting The Committees key focus in its work on the Annual Report and Accounts is to determine that the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys 11 11 66 position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considers in detail the annual and interim statements.
It engages with Hg to facilitate any significant financial reporting judgements and also considers industry practice amongst its peers.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Financial Statements and it did not identify any significant issues, although particular attention is paid to all aspects of the biannual valuation of unquoted investments, especially matters of judgement and estimation, as well as any areas identified by the Committee or the external auditor as presenting significant risk.
The Manager confirmed that the valuations had been performed consistently with prior years and in accordance with published industry guidelines, taking into account the latest available information about investee companies and current market data.
The Committee also advises the Board on how, taking into account the Companys position and principal risks, the Companys prospects have been assessed, over what period and why the period is regarded as appropriate.
The Committee advises the Board on whether there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the said period, drawing attention to any qualifications or assumptions as necessary.
External audit Grant Thornton was appointed by shareholders as the independent Auditor to the Company at the 2017 AGM, following a full audit tender process.
The Committee expects to repeat a tender process in 2026 in respect of the audit for the year ending 31 December 2027.
In accordance with professional guidelines, the senior statutory auditor, currently Marcus Swales, is rotated after at most five years.
The current senior statutory auditor started working with the Company in 2017.
Accordingly, the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Reports from the Committees of the Board continued During the year, the Committee reviewed its nonaudit service policy that serves to ensure that the Auditors independence and objectivity were not impaired.
The Committee carefully considered the independence of Grant Thornton and was satisfied that there was a clear division between audit and nonaudit services and the implementation of this policy ensures this division is maintained.
No nonaudit services were provided by Grant Thornton during the year.
Details of the remuneration for services provided by the Auditor are contained in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has met with the audit team and assessed Grant Thorntons performance to date, including a review of the Auditors engagement letter and audit plan and an examination of the Auditors remuneration, quality of work undertaken, including the audit report, the quality of the audit team and the resources available to it and the identification of audit risk.
Following this review of the effectiveness of the audit, the Committee was satisfied that Grant Thornton had carried out its duties in a diligent and professional manner and provided a high level of service.
The Committee considers the impact of significant legal or regulatory issues it becomes aware of concerning audit quality by the incumbent firm or indeed, likely future tender participants.
Having done so, a resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Richard Brooman Chairman, Audit and Valuation Committee 8 March 2019 Management Engagement Committee report Chairman: Peter Dunscombe Key responsibilities: 1 Monitor the performance of the Manager: 2 Review the terms of the Management Agreement, including the remuneration of the Manager: and 3 Monitor compliance of other service providers with the terms of their respective agreements.
The Committee continues to support the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, primarily through its comprehensive review of the Managers performance and compliance with the Companys investment policy.
In considering Hgs performance with respect to the provision of investment management and other services to 11 11 77 the Company, due regard was given to the quality and continuity of Hgs personnel, succession planning, sector and geographic coverage, investment processes and the results achieved to date.
This included a consideration of Hgs work on assessing the possible impacts of Brexit and any potential risks to the business model.
The Committee also evaluates the level and method of remuneration arrangements, including the methodology of the annual management and performance fee.
In addition, Hgs ongoing commitment to the promotion of the Companys shares and its engagement with the Companys key stakeholders are also evaluated by the Committee.
Alongside the performance review, the Committee completed an appraisal of the terms of the investment management contract to ensure the terms remained competitive and in the interest of shareholders.
Following the review, the Committee has recommended Hgs continued appointment to be in the best interests of all shareholders.
The Committee also has the responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the Companys other key service providers.
To that end, in depth reviews are undertaken through a mix of completion of a scorecard and face to face meetings of all of the third party providers on a fiveyearly cycle.
Following consideration of the evaluation outcomes, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board in respect of these appointments.
During 2018, the Committee market tested the services of the Company Secretary, Link Company Matters, and recommended to the Board that Link Company Matters be reappointed subject to updating the terms of the contract.
The Committee also reviewed the Companys legal advisors, Dickson Minto, and the Companys Depositary, Ipes.
The Committee agreed that no changes to these appointments were required.
Peter Dunscombe Chairman, Management Engagement Committee 8 March 2019 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Corporate governance Reports from the Committees of the Board continued Nomination Committee report Chairman: Roger Mountford Number of meetings attended eligible to attend Key responsibilities: Audit and Management 1 Review the composition of the Board and its Committees: Director Board Valuation Engagement Nomination 2 Consider succession plans for Directors and the Chairman: Richard Brooman 6 6 5 5 2 2 1 1 3 Identify and nominate the appointment of additional Peter Dunscombe 6 6 5 5 2 2 1 1 Directors as and when considered appropriate: and 4 Roger Mountford 6 6 5 5 2 2 1 1 Consider the resolutions relating to the election and reelection of Directors.
1 Mark Powell 3 3 3 3 N A 1 1 2 Attendance record Jim Strang 4 4 2 2 2 2 N A 2 The table to the right summarises the Directors attendance Guy Wakeley 4 4 2 2 2 2 N A at meetings of the Board and its Committees, held in the Anne West 6 6 5 5 2 2 1 1 year to 31 December 2018, compared with the number 1 2 they were eligible to attend.
Retired in April 2018 Appointed in March 2018 During the year, Mark Powell retired as a Director and the Board welcomed two new Directors, Jim Strang and Guy Wakeley, who were appointed as a direct result of the Committees 2017 review of the mix of skills, experience, diversity and knowledge which the Board should have in future.
Jim and Guys experience and knowledge have complemented those of existing Directors: as a result, against a background of increasing complexity and continuing growth, the Board has enhanced its ability to oversee the Manager, monitor the strategy of investing in technology and service businesses, and assess and challenge valuations of the businesses in which we are invested.
The increased diversity in the experience and professional training of the Directors has resulted in greater cognitive diversity, enriching discussions at the Board and broadening the dialogue we have with the Manager concerning their operations and the businesses in which we are invested.
The search for suitable candidates commenced at the end of 2017 and was conducted by an independent external recruitment agency, Nurole.
Further details of the search and appointment process were included in the Nomination Committee Report in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In 2018, the Committee considered the composition, tenure and succession plans of the enlarged Board and concluded that, as a whole, the Board comprises an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and 11 11 88 knowledge.
With the appointment of Jim and Guy, the Committee has recognised the value of regular refreshing of the Boards composition: however, the value brought through continuity and experience of Directors with longer periods of service is, in the Committees opinion, not only desirable, but key for an investment company which makes large commitments to invest across a cycle of  that extends over periods of up to eight years or longer.
With an objective to deliver longterm returns to the shareholders it is important that the Board is also able to maintain its longterm perspective.
The Committee also considered the time spent by each Director during the year on matters related to the Company, including a review of other commitments each Director has outside their involvement with the Company.
It was agreed that each Director had demonstrated sufficient commitment to discharging his or her duties and dedicated appropriate time to Company matters.
The Committee considers that the performance of all of the Directors submitting themselves for reelection continues to be effective and that they have all demonstrated commitment to their role.
Consequently, the Board believes it is in the best interests of shareholders that each of the Directors be reelected.
During 2019 the Committee will review the Boards composition, tenure and succession plans in light of the Companys entry to the FTSE 250 index, the revised 2019 AIC Code and wider developments in governance and applicable law, to ensure that the Board as a whole remains best placed to deliver shareholder value and returns in the longterm.
Roger Mountford Chairman, Nomination Committee 8 March 2019 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
