Strategic report Strategic report Investment objective and investment policy The objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with consistent 14 14 longterm returns in excess of the FTSE AllShare Index by investing predominantly in unquoted companies where value can be created through strategic and operational change.
Investment policy Hedging Part of the Companys portfolio is located outside the UK, The policy of the Company is to invest, directly or indirectly, predominantly in Northern Europe, and a further part in in a portfolio of unlisted companies where Hg believes it businesses that operate in US dollars.
The Company may can add value through organic growth, operational therefore hold investments valued in currencies other than improvements, margin expansion, reorganisation or by sterling.
From time to time, the Company may put in place acquisition to achieve scale.
The Company seeks to hedging arrangements with the objective of protecting the maximise its opportunities and reduce investment risk sterling translation of a valuation in another currency.
by holding a spread of businesses diversified by sector, Derivatives are also used to protect the sterling value of market and geography.
the cost of investment made or proceeds from realising Risk management investments in other currencies, between the exchange The Company has adopted formal policies to control of contracts and the completion of a transaction.
risk arising through excessive leverage or concentration.
Overcommitment The Companys maximum exposure to unlisted investments The Company may be overcommitted at times in order is 100% of the gross assets of the Company from time to ensure that it is more fully invested in the future.
On the date of first investment, no investment The level of overcommitment is regularly reviewed by in a single business will exceed a maximum of 20% of the Board and Hg.
The Company may invest in other listed closedended investment funds up to a maximum at the Liquid funds time of investment of 15% of gross assets.
The Company maintains a level of liquidity to ensure, so far as can be forecast, that it can participate in all investments Sectors and markets made by Hg throughout the  cycle.
As the Companys policy is to invest in businesses in which Hg can play an active role in supporting management, At certain points in the  cycle the Hg primarily invests in companies whose operations are Company may hold substantial cash awaiting investment.
headquartered or substantially based in Europe.
These The Company may invest its liquid funds in government or companies operate in a range of countries, but there is corporate debt securities, or in bank deposits, in each case no policy of making allocations to specific countries or with an investment grade rating, or in managed liquidity markets.
Investments are made across a range of sectors funds that hold investments of a similar quality.
where Hg believes that its skills can add value, but there If there is surplus capital and conditions for new investment is no policy of making allocations to sectors.
appear to be unfavourable, the Board will consider The Company may, from time to time, invest directly in returning capital to shareholders, probably through the private equity funds managed by Hg where it is more market purchase of shares.
economical and practical so to do.
Any material change to the Companys investment objective and policy will be made only with the approval Gearing of shareholders in a general meeting.
Each underlying investment is usually leveraged but no more than its own cash flow can support, in order to enhance value creation: it is impractical to set a maximum for such gearing across the portfolio as a whole.
The Company commits to invest in new opportunities in order to maintain the proportion of gross assets that are invested at any time, but monitors such commitments carefully against projected cash flows.
The Company has the power to borrow and to charge its assets as security.
The Articles restrict the Companys ability without shareholder approval to borrow no more than twice the Companys share capital and reserves, allowing for the deduction of debit balances on any reserves.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
