Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Hgs outlook Strong trading from the unrealised portfolio, realisations at uplifts to book value, refinancing activity and ongoing support of the management teams we back should continue to drive value for shareholders in HgCapital Trust plc.
Realisations Current Portfolio It has been a very active year for Hg in realising capital for The portfolio is in good health and growing strongly.
We have completed twelve full exits and six Trading over 2018 has continued to generate doubledigit refinancings over 2018 and the Company is now invested sales and EBITDA growth across almost all the businesses.
in a relatively young portfolio, with an average age since Given their defensive growth characteristics and our focus acquisition of just under two years.
on protected business models, we believe our current investments are well positioned to continue to create value This exit activity has continued to demonstrate the on both an absolute and relative basis going forward, even attractiveness of Hgs sweetspot business model investments 47 47 if macroeconomic conditions deteriorate.
to both trade and financial buyers, as most recently evidenced by a partial sale of Visma to Canada Pension Plan Our belief in these defensive qualities is reinforced by our Investment Board CPPIB, announced in January 2019. historic portfolios performance during the Global Financial Crisis from 2008 to 2010, when our businesses in aggregate Going forward we will continue to focus on opportunities to continued to grow revenues and EBITDA, without a down crystallise value across our portfolio, with further exit and year.
We believe our current portfolio is of better quality refinancing processes already underway.
The current and than the one we held during the financial crisis.
planned level of realisations should be broadly commensurate with our levels of liquidity generation since the start of 2017.
Prospects Investments The scale and reach of Hgs network within the global technology and service sectors is now broader and deeper We have an active pipeline for investments in 2019 and than ever before.
believe that, in the current market environment, the clarity and distinctive focus of our strategy provides us with several We continue to consider the UKs forthcoming exit from clear advantages as a cautious and disciplined investor.
the EU and our prognosis remains that this will have a relatively limited impact on our current portfolio given the Despite a focus on realisations, Hg has continued to invest characteristics of these businesses, their geographic profile selectively, capitalising on situations where we have a and their relatively protected nature.
Hgs panEuropean specific angle and have built many years of knowledge of focus and our office in Germany also offer flexibility in the business and its endmarket cluster, and strong terms of the breadth of our focus, regulatory regime and relationships with the founders and management teams.
Indeed, the relative derisking of our existing portfolio gives our investment teams more time and space to consider The drive for operational improvements in our investments, attractive new investments in our core areas of focus, aligned with the efforts of our dedicated Operations Group, across our funds and the size spectrum.
means that we believe we can continue to generate significant longterm value across the portfolio on a Specifically, we will continue to concentrate on companies repeatable basis, irrespective of the challenges of the that provide a businesscritical product or service, to a broader macroenvironment.
From pricing analysis and fragmented customer base, and which benefit from strong customer success, to cybersecurity and bolton M&A: contracted or recurring revenues.
This should enable us these initiatives will continue to remain an area of real to identify opportunities that will generate strong, risk focus going forward.
adjusted returns for our clients.
We remain confident in our strong group of businesses Despite the heat of the current market, we do continue with resilient, recurring growth characteristics that are to see attractive investment opportunities in our target benefiting from the wealth of expertise in the areas in clusters, just as we did in the closing stages of the last which we invest and the scale to continue to be one of period of high valuations, in 2005 to 2008.
This has led to the largest software investors in Europe.
eight new investments and further capital deployed into businesses we know well, with Transporeon, announced in January 2019, being the most recent example.
A significant number of realisations in 2018 reflected a strong market for exits.
This leaves us with a young, focused portfolio where we are very active in driving further capital growth through trading performance, business improvement initiatives and accretive M&A.
Matthew Brockman, Managing Partner, Hg HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
