Hgs review Hgs review Investments and realisations Investments 2018 Over the course of the year, Hg has invested a total of 1.4 billion on behalf of its clients, with the Companys share being 187 million.
The vast majority of our investments are generated by establishing and developing relationships with companies in our chosen segments over the longer term and typically pursuing opportunities where we have a strong relationship with a founder or management team.
By doing this, we believe that we can invest in the very best businesses within our chosen sectors and clusters.
We continue to look for businesses that share similar underlying business model characteristics, such as: high levels of recurring revenues: a product or service that is business critical but typically low spend: low customer concentration: and low sensitivity to market cycles.
This is a theme that runs through many of our new investments and we believe companies with these characteristics will remain in high demand.
40 40 Over 2018, the Company has invested 4.4 million in MediFox by way of coinvestment, in addition to its commitment to invest alongside Hg Mercury 2.
This is an attractive way to invest more funds, when available, with no fees or carried interest being payable.
New investments IRIS IRIS is a leading provider of businesscritical software and services to the UK accountancy, education and business market.
Hg and IRIS have had a longstanding joint history since 2004 and, in September, Hg Saturn completed a joint investment into IRIS with Intermediate Capital Group 36m invested on behalf of the Company ICG, representing an EV of 1.3 billion.
The Access Group Access Access is a provider of fully integrated, businesscritical business management software to UK midmarket organisations.
Its portfolio spans finance, HR, payroll, hospitality, recruitment, heath & social care, manufacturing & distribution, education and 30m invested on behalf notforprofit sectors.
of the Company Access has a strong management team focused on delivering an everexpanding portfolio of businesscritical software to a growing base of loyal customers demonstrating many of the business characteristics that Hg looks for.
This investment has been made alongside TA Associates.
IT Relation IT Relation is a leading Danish supplier of managed IT services to small and medium sized enterprises SMEs.
This investment is consistent with Hgs focus on SME Technology 16m invested on behalf Services in Europe, with other activity in this sector including investments in Zitcom 2015 and of the Company DADA 2017, both providers of online hosting services to SMEs.
Hg will support the management team to build a clear industry champion based on IT Relations excellent customer service and operating platform.
Further detail on investments as at 31 December 2018 can be found on pages 50 to 72.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Investments and realisations continued BrightPay Based near Dublin, BrightPay provides easytouse and cuttingedge software solutions to enable SMEs to manage payroll, supported by excellent customer service.
BrightPays software 15m invested on behalf is used by over 120,000 employers across the UK and Ireland under two brands, BrightPay and of the Company Thesaurus Software.
This represents the first investment of Transition Capital, a structured minority investment strategy and is within a cluster where Hg has invested for many years.
Payroll in Ireland is undergoing significant change since January 2019, as Ireland rolls out PAYE modernisation, which will require employers to report PAYE in real time to the Irish Revenue Commissioners.
BrightPay has invested significantly ahead of this change to prepare to support Irish SMEs through this transition.
Allocate Software Hg initially invested in Allocate, a leading international provider of workforce 41 41 management software to the healthcare, defence and maritime sectors, via Mercury 1 at the 14m invested on behalf end of 2014.
Hg sold the company to Vista Equity Partners, a leading US investor in technology, of the Company in April 2018.
In August 2018, Hg completed the acquisition of a cocontrolling stake in Allocate in order to develop Allocate in line with a strategy agreed with Vista with the benefit of both firms expertise.
MediFox MediFox is a provider of software solutions to outpatient and inpatient care providers and therapy practices in Germany.
The investment from the Hg Mercury 2 Fund, recognises MediFoxs attractive business model characteristics, being a wellestablished player with a strong position in a fragmented sector, showing a positive underlying growth trajectory whilst also having a compelling product offering, a robust financial profile and a highly competent 12m invested on behalf of the Company management team.
FE Financial Express FE supplies investment data, research and software to the financial services industry in the UK and operates a proprietary database of complete retail funds data with global coverage and history, built up over 20 years.
Trusted by thousands of investors, advisers, asset managers and platforms who use FE data, software and investment advice every day, FE is a 7m invested on behalf leading player in supporting the UK fund industry.
FE has a number of business characteristics that of the Company Hg looks for, including a strong position in the wealth asset management software and data sector, a wellrecognised brand, businesscritical products, and a strong management team.
Rhapsody In October, Hg completed the acquisition of the majority ownership of Orion Healths Rhapsody business and investment in Orion Healths Population Health business.
Healthcare technology is a core investment area for Hg, having recently completed a number of transactions across the sector.
This investment was made from the Hg Mercury 2 Fund.
The combination of Rhapsodys global team and Hgs resources will extend Rhapsody as a leader 7m invested on behalf in the interoperability platform space, building on both Rhapsodys worldclass technology and of the Company highly rated customer service.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review Investments and realisations Further investments Investments continued Mobility Concept Holding Mobility Concept is a leading B2B fleet leasing company, headquartered 25m invested on behalf in Germany.
The business sits in the Hg investment sweetspot, with a strong and predictable of the Company business model, including recurring revenues and a loyal customer base and continues Hgs strategy to develop technologyenabled service providers in the automotive financing space.
Mobility Concept is the result of considerable sector work undertaken in recent years and will, together with MeinAuto.
fide a leading B2C online platform for new car purchases, be part of Mobility Holding, a platform setup by Hg to acquire businesses in the automotive distribution and financing space.
42 42 Visma In March, Hg made a further investment in Visma, a leading provider of businesscritical business software to SMEs in the Nordic region via the Hg Saturn Fund.
In 2002, Hg identified 21m invested on behalf regulatorydriven, subscriptionbased software as an attractive subsector with scope for of the Company considerable growth over the following decade and initially invested in Visma in 2006.
Since this time the business has consistently exceeded our investment plans, having acquired more than 140 companies over our ownership to become one of todays leading and largest SaaS companies in Europe, with more than NOK 4 billion of pure SaaS revenues.
DADA DADA is a key provider of online hosting services to SMEs in Italy, the UK and other regions across Europe.
Following the initial acquisition made in October 2017, Hg announced in February 2018 that it had successfully completed a tender offer for the remaining Ordinary shares and would 1m invested on behalf of complete a publictoprivate transaction of DADA from the Italian Stock Exchange.
the Company This represents the first investment by the Hg Mercury 2 Fund and Hg has extensive experience of investing in SMEfocused technology businesses and is well placed to partner with DADA for the next phase of their growth.
Further investments since the yearend Transporeon In January, Hg announced that it had invested in Transporeon Group Transporeon, one of the worlds leading Cloudbased logistics platforms, via the Hg8 Fund.
Founded in 2000 and headquartered in Ulm, Germany, Transporeon is a Cloudbased logistics platform with strong An estimated 41m network effects, connecting a global network of over 1,000 shippers and almost 90,000 carriers, invested on behalf of enabling them to source, communicate, collaborate and transact more efficiently, whilst also the Company, including 6m in coinvestment helping to lower CO emissions.
This investment represents another example of Hgs focus on 2 Cloudbased software and network companies, providing SaaS solutions to the business community.
Combell In March, Hg completed an investment in Combell Group Combell, a leader in mass hosting services for SMEs across Europe, via the Hg8 Fund, subject to regulatory approval.
22m invested on behalf Established in 1999, Combell is a leading mass hosting player in Belgium and Denmark, with of the Company growing positions in the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland.
Combell has over 800,000 SME and Small Office Home Office SoHo customers and is a onestop partner for web hosting, domains, ecommerce and application solutions.
This represents Hgs 8th investment in the technology services sector, with other recent hosting investments including Zitcom 2015, DADA 2017 and most recently, IT Relation 2018.
Combell shows similar characteristics to these businesses, having consistently delivered strong organic revenue growth, bestinclass customer satisfaction metrics and an exceptional M&A track record.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Investments and realisations continued Realisations 2018 Over the course of the year, Hg has returned a total of 1.9 billion to its clients, including 272 million to the Company.
2018 was a very active year for realisations.
We have made several references to frothy markets over the past year and this has helped inform our approach to selling investments, whilst also carefully considering our appetite for selling versus the benefits of remaining invested in selected businesses for longer.
We have also taken advantage of buoyant debt markets during the period by refinancing investments where we have good visibility of their future earnings, returning cash proceeds to our clients, including the Company, and we will continue to assess further opportunities here.
43 43 Exits IRIS In September, Hg completed the sale of and reinvestment into IRIS, a leading provider of businesscritical software and services to the UK accountancy, education and business market, representing the largest UK and third largest European private equity software buyout ever.
93m returned Hg6 originally invested in IRIS in December 2011 and, over the course of the Funds investment, to the Company the business has experienced strong revenue, EBITDA and cash flow growth, across market cycles.
At an exit valuation of 1.3 billion, the business has more than trebled in size over the last six years.
This transaction delivered a 4.2x investment multiple and a 26% gross IRR over the investment period.
The sale of IRIS resulted in an uplift of 22% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
JLA In August, Hg completed the sale of JLA, a UK leader for criticalasset solutions in the commercial laundry, catering, heating and fire safety markets, to Cinven.
Hgs Genesis team invested in JLA at the beginning of 2010, identifying JLA as a hidden champion services business.
38m returned JLA displays bestinclass services characteristics: stable and predictable revenue streams, growth to the Company from both existing and new customers, and a wide customer base with high customer satisfaction levels.
This transaction delivered a 4.9x investment multiple and a 26% gross IRR over the investment period.
The sale of JLA resulted in an uplift of 26% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
Ullink In February, the Genesis team completed the sale of Ullink, a leading global provider of electronic trading and connectivity solutions to the financial community to Itiviti, a company backed by Nordic Capital.
Hg initially invested in Ullink in 2014 and has been working with the management 24m returned of the company since 2014 to build a leading Financial Information Exchange FIX based trading to the Company community through strong organic growth and the acquisitions of NYFIX and Metabit.
This transaction delivered a 3.0x investment multiple and a 35% gross IRR over the investment period.
The sale of Ullink resulted in an uplift of 27% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
Allocate Software In April, the Mercury team announced the sale of Allocate Software Allocate, an international provider of healthcare workforce management software, to Vista Equity Partners.
20m returned Hg initially invested in Allocate at the end of 2014, completing a publictoprivate transaction from to the Company the London Stock Exchange.
Since then, Hg has worked with management to materially enhance the capabilities of Allocates software suite, achieved greater customer engagement and supported a substantial increase in employment and skills development.
This transaction delivered a 3.6x investment multiple and a 50% IRR.
The sale resulted in a 47% uplift to the carrying value of the investment as at 31 December 2017.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review Investments and realisations continued Exits continued Radius In April, the Genesis team completed the sale of Radius, which provides tailored solutions for fast growing companies that are looking to expand into international markets, to Vistra, one 18m returned of the worlds leading providers of corporate service to international corporations and to trust to the Company fiduciaries and fund administrators.
This transaction delivered a 1.0x investment multiple.
The sale resulted in an 18% uplift to the carrying value of the investment as at 31 December 2017.
Intelliflo In June, the Mercury team completed the sale of Intelliflo, a UK provider of front and back office software solutions to financial intermediaries, including IFAs, wealth managers, adviser networks, insurance life companies and brokers.
It was sold to Invesco, the Atlantabased global 44 44 investment management company.
Over the past five years, Hg has supported the business to 17m returned implement bestinclass SaaS practices in development, operations, sales and marketing.
to the Company This transaction delivered a 4.7x investment multiple and a 39% gross IRR over the investment period.
The sale of Intelliflo resulted in an uplift of 66% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
Teufel In June, Hg completed the sale of Teufel, a European directtoconsumer online brand for audio solutions, based in Germany, to Naxicap Partners, one of Frances leading private equity companies.
Since Hg partnered with Teufel in 2010, it has supported the successful transition from 15m returned a traditional loudspeaker company to a highquality brand for stateoftheart audio solutions, to the Company through the introduction of new categories and technologies, including wireless streaming, headphones and portables.
This transaction delivered a 1.4x investment multiple.
The sale resulted in a 56% uplift to the carrying value of the investment as at 31 December 2017.
Atlas In November, Hg completed the sale of Atlas, a specialist Learning Technology Services business, offering learning solutions to safety critical industries, to Mintra Group, a leading provider of elearning and HR related solutions to the global oil and gas, maritime, construction and renewables 10m returned market, and a portfolio company of The Riverside Company, a global private equity firm.
This to the Company transaction resulted in an uplift of 60% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
Kinapse In August, Hg completed the realisation of Kinapse, a leading international provider of advisory, capability building and operational services to the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, to Syneos Health, a Nasdaqlisted, fully integrated, biopharmaceutical solutions 7m returned organisation.
The sale of Kinapse has resulted in an uplift of c. 39% over the carrying value to the Company of the business at 31 December 2017.
Raet In May, Hg agreed the sale to Visma of Raets HR solutions operations.
This transaction followed a competitive sales process, commenced earlier in the year by the Hg7 Fund.
We strongly believe in the benefits of the integration and anticipated synergies.
The Raet holding structure 2m returned remains, owning the right to deferred consideration from the sale, of which the Companys share is to the Company 13.0 million.
This transaction has delivered a 1.6x investment multiple and a 20% gross IRR over the investment period to date.
The sale of Raets operations resulted in an uplift of 25% over the carrying value of the business at 31 December 2017.
Lumesse In October, Hg agreed the sale of Lumesse, a provider of strategic HR software to medium and large sized enterprises, to Saba Software Inc. a global leader in talent development solutions, and a portfolio company of Vector Capital, a leading global technology private equity 2m returned to the Company firm based in San Francisco.
Frsunda In February, Hg agreed the sale of Frsunda, a care home business based in Sweden, to Norlandia.
The sale of Frsunda was largely based on deferred consideration which will be 0.5m returned to the Company determined by future earnings.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Investments and realisations continued Further realisations since the yearend Visma In January 2019, Hg announced the partrealisation of Visma, a leading provider of businesscritical software to private and public enterprises in the Nordic, Baltic and Benelux An estimated regions, from the Hg7 Fund, to the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board CPPIB.
Following 22m returned completion of this transaction, Hg will remain the lead investor in Visma alongside some of the to the Company worlds largest institutional investors.
Together, Visma and its strong investor base will continue to reinforce Vismas position as a leading SaaS business in Europe and one of the worlds most successful SaaS companies.
45 45 Refinancings Trace One In July, the Mercury team completed the refinancing of Trace One, a business that enables global retailers and suppliers to collaborate and develop highquality compliant private 6m returned to the Company label products.
Foundry In May, the Genesis team completed the refinancing of Foundry, a UK headquartered 4m returned to the Company global developer of computer graphics, highend visual effects and 3D design software.
DADA S. p. A In July, the Mercury team completed the refinancing of DADA, an international 4m returned to the Company leader in digital services for professionals and SMEs.
Citation In November, the Genesis team completed the refinancing of Citation, a provider of longterm, subscriptionbased Compliance HR Employment Law, Health & Safety and Quality 3m returned to the Company ISO certification, supplier verification services to over 35,000 SMEs throughout the UK.
STP In October, the Mercury team refinanced STP, a provider of insolvency and law practice 1m returned to the Company software in Germany.
Evaluate In December, the Mercury team completed the refinancing of Evaluate, a platform 1m returned to the Company that provides commercial data to the life sciences industry.
Further refinancings since the yearend APlan In January, the Genesis announced the refinancing of APlan, a leading independent An estimated highstreet insurance broker in the UK.
APlan has now returned 1.4x the original investment 14m returned to the Company made in April 2015 to the Hg7 fund.
This transaction is expected to complete later in March.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Hgs review Hgs review Investments and realisations continued Summary of investment and realisation activity Investments made during the year Company Sector Geography Activity Cost 000 IRIS Technology UK Software and services to the UK accountancy market 36,380 The Access Group Technology UK Businessmanagement software 30,491 IT Relation Services Scandinavia Managed IT services to SMEs 16,037 BrightPay Technology Ireland Accounting and payroll software to SMEs 15,344 Allocate Software Technology UK Software to the healthcare sector 13,959 MediFox Technology Germany Software to the healthcare sector 11,796 46 46 Financial Express Technology UK Investment data and research software to the finance sector 7,387 Rhapsody Technology North America Software to the healthcare sector 6,689 New investments 138,083 Mobility Holding Services Germany Automotive distribution and financing platform 24,998 Visma Technology Scandinavia Provider of business software to SMEs 20,555 Other 3,702 Further investments 49,255 Total investments on behalf of the Company 187,338 Realisations made during the year 1 Company Sector Exit route Proceeds 000 IRIS Technology Secondary sale 93,113 JLA Services Secondary sale 38,254 Ullink Technology Trade sale 24,357 Allocate Software Technology Secondary sale 19,920 Radius Services Trade sale 18,312 Intelliflo Technology Trade sale 16,801 Teufel Industrial Technology Secondary sale 15,106 Atlas Services Trade sale 9,996 Kinapse Services Trade sale 6,812 2 Raet Technology Trade sale 2,367 Lumesse Technology Trade sale 1,573 Frsunda Healthcare Trade sale 487 Full realisations 247,098 TraceOne Technology Refinancing 5,677 HgCapital 6 E LP Fund Technology and Services Distribution received 5,495 Foundry Technology Refinancing 3,795 DADA Technology Refinancing 3,733 Citation Services Refinancing 3,345 STP Technology Refinancing 1,320 Evaluate Technology Refinancing 762 Other 596 Partial realisations 24,723 Total proceeds from realisations 271,821 Carried interest paid to the Manager 55,023 Total proceeds from realisations received by the Company 216,798 1 Includes gross revenue received during the year ended 31 December 2018.
2 Sale of operations to Visma.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
