Delivering our brand promise By creating high-quality products, and making them accessible to those who need them, we are helping to shape a healthier world that enriches all of our communities.
Delivering for stakeholders For more than 40 years, we have been dedicated to transforming peoples lives by providing the medicine and support that they need every day.
We are committed to delivering our brand promise for the stakeholders we come into contact with the patients who use our medicines, healthcare professionals, our customers, our employees and the wider community.
Patients We are committed to making high-quality medicines more accessible.
We have a broad and growing product portfolio across multiple therapeutic categories, including anti-infectives, cardiovascular, diabetes, central nervous system, respiratory and oncology.
We are continuously investing to expand our capabilities and capacity to meet the growing demand for our products and to ensure our customers and patients receive the products they need, when they need them.
Healthcare professionals By continuously working to better understand the needs of doctors, nurses, clinicians and pharmacists, we are ensuring we develop a pipeline of products and technologies that meet the future needs of patients.
In MENA, we have around 2,000 sales representatives that meet with doctors on a daily basis and support them in improving the healthcare available to their patients.
We regularly provide a forum for bringing together key opinion leaders, doctors and global research institutes to share knowledge and raise awareness.
To see more from our stakeholders see pages 22, 28 and 34 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Delivering our brand promise We are committed to ensuring our customers and patients have the products they need, when they need them.
We are proud to work for a business that positively impacts the lives of millions of people every day.
Our people It is the passion and commitment of our people that make it possible for our business to positively impact the lives of millions of people every day.
Across our organisation, our teams are building strong and trusted relationships with patients, healthcare professionals and our customers.
Our people are proud to work for Hikma and to enrich the communities in which we operate.
We continuously invest in important partnerships globally, including Direct Relief and The Princes Trust, that provide unique volunteering opportunities for our people and enable us to give back to our community.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 11
