Board of Directors Said Darwazah, 61 Siggi Olafsson, 50 Mazen Darwazah, 60 Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, President of MENA Appointed: 1 July 2007 | Joined Hikma: 1981 Appointed: 20 February 2018 | Joined Hikma: 2018 Appointed: 8 September 2005 | Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Icelandic Nationality: Jordanian Board experience: Board experience: Board experience: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: None Experience: Said served as Chief Executive from Experience: Siggi has a wealth of international Experience: Mazen has led and expanded the MENA July 2007 to February 2018 and has served as Chair experience in the pharmaceutical industry, having region at Hikma.
Since listing, he has Group level since May 2014.
Said has over 37 years of experience held senior roles with Actavis Pharma Inc. Pfizer Inc. responsibility in his role as Executive Vice Chairman.
in numerous leadership roles at Hikma.
Under Saids and Omega Farma.
Siggi served as President and Since 2014, he became responsible for the Groups leadership, Hikma has expanded into the US and CEO of Global Generic Medicines at Teva expansion into emerging markets.
become a leading player in injectables and the Pharmaceuticals.
Qualifications: BA in Business Administration from MENA region.
Qualifications: M. S. in Pharmacy Cand Pharm the Lebanese American University, AMP from Qualifications: Industrial Engineering degree from from the University of Iceland, Reykjavik.
Purdue University, MBA from INSEAD.
Other appointments: Independent Director Other appointments: Vice Chairman of the Other appointments: Chairman of the Queen of Pfenex Inc. a biologics company listed on the Capital Bank of Jordan.
Trustee of the St. Louis Rania Foundation and Royal Jordanian Airlines.
Trustee of the AmericanCollege of Pharmacy, Birzeit University and Kings Director of the Central Bank of Jordan and Dash Scandinavian foundation.
Member of the HM King Abdullah Ventures Limited.
Robert Pickering, 59 Ali Al-Husry, 61 Patrick Butler, 58 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 September 2011 | Joined Hikma: 2011 Appointed: 14 October 2005 | Joined Hikma: 1981 Appointed: 1 April 2014 | Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: British Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Irish Board experience: Board experience: Board experience: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: None C C Experience: Ali held various management and Experience: Robert became Senior Independent Experience: Pat was Senior Director at McKinsey leadership roles within Hikma before stepping into an Director in May 2014.
Robert was Chief Executive of & Co. During 25 years at McKinsey, he focused on advisory role in 1995, when he founded Capital Bank Cazenove Group PLC and subsequently J. P. Morgan strategic, financial and structuring advice to large of Jordan, focusing on commercial and investment Cazenove until 2008.
During 23 years at Cazenove corporations.
Pat qualified in the audit and tax banking.
Ali served as Chief Executive of Capital and Co. he acquired extensive experience of the practice of Arthur Andersen.
Bank until 2007. corporate and investment environment.
First-class Qualifications: Mechanical Engineering degree Qualifications: Qualified solicitor with a law degree honours degree in Commerce, postgraduate from the University of Southern California, MBA from Lincoln College, Oxford.
diploma in Accounting and Corporate Finance from INSEAD.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Trustees at Other appointments: Director of Endeavour Jordan, Lincoln College Oxford 2027 Trust.
Director at Itau Other appointments: Chairman of Aldermore PLC.
Microfund for Women, Capital Bank of Jordan, and BBA International PLC, the investment bank of the Director of The Ardonagh Group and Res Media DASH Ventures Limited.
Governor of the British Film Institute.
Trustee of the Resolution Foundation.
66 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Board of Directors Dr Pamela Kirby, 65 Dr Jochen Gann, 54 John Castellani, 68 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 December 2014 | Joined Hikma: 2014 Appointed: 29 February 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Appointed: 1 March 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: British Nationality: German Nationality: American Board experience: Board experience: Board experience: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: None C C Experience: Dr Kirby was Chief Executive of Experience: Dr Gann is Global Head of Corporate Experience: John was President and Chief Quintiles Transnational Corp and held senior Finance M&A and Corporate Vice President at Executive Officer of Pharmaceutical Research and executive positions at F Hoffmann-La Roche and Boehringer Ingelheim.
Dr Gann leads Boehringer Manufacturers of America PhRMA and Business AstraZeneca.
Previously, Dr Kirby chaired Scynexis, Ingelheims mergers and acquisitions activities Roundtable.
During his career John has also held was Senior Independent Director of Informa and across all businesses.
senior positions with Burson-Marsteller, Tenneco, held non-executive positions with Smith & Nephew and General Electric.
Qualifications: Doctorate Degree in International and Novo Nordisk.
Finance from the University of Hohenheim.
Masters Qualifications: BSc in Biology from Union College Qualifications: First-class BSc degree in Degree in Business Administration and Science from Schenectady, New York.
Pharmacology, and Clinical Pharmacology PhD from Other appointments: Director of 5th Port.
Trustee the University of London.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Finance of The John Hopkins Medical System Sibley Memorial Other appointments: Director of DCC PLC, Reckitt Committee at Verband Der Chemischen Industrie Hospital, Washington, DC.
Benckiser Group PLC and Victrex PLC.
Advisory Board Member at KfW Board Member of Akzo Nobel NV.
Peter Speirs Board experience: Company Secretary Business ethics Manufacturing and integrity Appointed: 2 April 2012 | Joined Hikma: 2010 Pharmaceutical Nationality: British Commercial Regulatory Role: Peter is responsible for advising on Finance and political governance, executive remuneration, and listing related matters.
Peter joined Hikma as Deputy Governance Sales Secretary and previously held roles with Barclays and Pool Re.
Human resources Strategy and risk Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Listed environment Secretaries and Administrators.
Law degree from the Nina Henderson, 68 University of East Anglia.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 October 2016 | Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: American Committees: Board experience: Audit Committee C ompliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Committee membership: Nomination and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee Experience: Nina assumed Board-level responsibility for employee engagement in January C Chair 2019.
Nina was Corporate VP of Bestfoods and President of Bestfoods Grocery prior to its acquisition by Unilever.
During a 30-year career with Bestfoods, and its predecessor company CPC International, she held a wide variety of Global and North American executive general management and For detailed Directors biographies go online: marketing positions.
Nina has served as a director of www.
com about leadership Royal Dutch Shell, AXA Financial, The Equitable Companies, DelMonte, Pactiv and Walter Energy.
Qualifications: Honours graduate and BSc from Drexel University.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of CNO Financial Group Inc and IWG PLC, Vice Chair of the Board of Drexel University, Director of the Foreign Policy Association and Visiting Nurse Service of New Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 67 York, Inc.
