Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our Business Segments in 2018 Number of subsidiaries Revenue 190.4m 5 Underlying operating profit 37.6m Number of employees 1,571 Underlying operating margin 19.7% Market drivers Ongoing high levels of activity in transport infrastructure, utilities, security, construction, agriculture and other sectors in our chosen geographies Imposition of tariffs on imported fabricated steel products, and Executive Order to Buy American on all infrastructure projects with federal financial assistance, driving US volumes UK market consolidating, presenting opportunities to further strengthen market leadership.
Strategy Differentiation through high service levels and competitive pricing, enabled by well invested facilities and strategically located plant networks Increasing focus on lower-volume but higher-margin work Provide high level of support to, and thereby increase competitiveness of, Groups Infrastructure business segments Continue process of geographic infill in UK, North East USA and France, through acquisition of competitors and greenfield investment.
Geographical spread UK 10 sites USA 6 sites in north east USA and one in the south France 10 sites Images: Above: Galvanized walkways inside a water tower on the Ariane 6 space project.
Facing page Top: A stature of Queen Aethelflaed, Lady of the Mercians, being galvanized at Joseph Ash Ltds Bilston plant.
Facing page Middle: Galvanized temporary bridge structures at Joseph Ash Ltds Telford plant.
Facing page Bottom: Galvanized barrier on the Mersey Gateway Bridge.
16 Stock Code HILS Galvanizing Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Locations Employees UK 675 UK 10 USA 416 USA 7 France 480 France 10 Progress UK performance benefited from strategic decision to focus on lower volume but higher margin work from smaller, jobbing customers US business well ahead driven by strong day-to-activity across a range of sectors, and despite absence of large one-off projects Volumes up in France and an improved market share.
Expansion Commenced greenfield development of a new galvanizing plant in the State of New York, due to be operational in Q4, 2019.
This provides further filling out of our geographic footprint in North East USA.
Revenue and returns Revenue up 4% 2017: 182.3m Underlying margin of 19.7%.
2017: 22.4% business segment target range 18% - 21% ROIC of 18.5% Group target ROIC: 20% hsholdings.
