Corporate governance | Directors report Directors report Report of the Directors to shareholders Hikmas net sales, gross profit and operating profit are shown by and stakeholders business segment in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements The Directors submit their report together with the audited financial on pages 133 and 134. statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
This report forms the management report for the purposes of the Disclosure and Results Transparency Rules.
Readers are asked to cross refer to the other Hikmas reported profit for the year in 2018 was $285 million sections of the Annual Report to the extent necessary to meet Hikmas 2017: loss of $839 million.
reporting obligations as follows statements that are not applicable have been excluded : Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 26 cents per share Likely future developments of Hikma: Strategic report, pages 2 to 61 approximately 20 pence per share 2017: 23 cents per share bringing Long-term incentive schemes: Directors remuneration report, the total dividend for the full year to 38 cents per share approximately pages 90 to 100 29 pence per share 2017: 34 cents per share, approximately 24 pence Related party transactions: Note 40 to the financial statements, per share.
The proposed dividend will be paid on 22 May 2019 to page 162 eligible shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 April Going concern statement: Risk management report, page 61 2019, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2019.
Names and biographical details of the Directors: corporate governance report, pages 66 and 67 Creditor payment policy Independence of Non-Executive Directors: corporate governance Hikmas policy, which is also applied by all subsidiaries and will continue report, page 69 in respect of the 2019 financial year, is to settle terms of payment with Directors share interests: Directors remuneration report, pages all suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to ensure 101 and 102 that suppliers are made aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
Greenhouse gas emissions: Sustainability report, pages 52 and 53 Trade creditors of Hikma at 31 December 2018 were equivalent to 94 Financial instruments and risk: Note 31 to the financial statements, days purchases 2017: 82 days, based on the average daily amount pages 150 to 155 invoiced by suppliers during the year.
For the purposes of listing Rule 9.8.
4, shareholders are directed in Donations accordance with the following table: During the year Hikma made charitable donations of approximately $2.6 million 2017: $3.2 million : Item Reference Amount Amount Interest capitalised and associated tax relief This page donated in donated in Type of donation 2017 $ 2018 $ Publication of unaudited financial information None Local charities serving communities in which Hikma operates 1,441,861 1,209,550 See Note 38 on pages 158 Details of long-term incentive schemes to 161 Medical donations in kind 1,780,625 1,398,738 Waiver of emoluments by Directors None Political donations and expenditure nil nil Allotment of securities for cash, including by Total 3,222,486 2,608,288 major subsidiaries None Parent undertakings of Hikma None Hikmas policy prohibits the payment of political donations and expenditure within the meaning of the Act.
Contracts of significance with a material interest of a director or controlling Research and development shareholders None Hikmas investment in research and development R&D during 2018 Services provided to Hikma by controlling represented 5.7% of Group revenue 2017: 6.3%.
Further details on shareholders None Hikmas R&D activities can be found on page 39.
Arrangements by which shareholders have See Note 35 on page 157 Interest agreed to current or future waive dividends The interest capitalised during the year under review was $0.1 million Controlling shareholder agreements and Hikma does not have any 2017: $0.1 million.
The tax impact related to the capitalised interest associated obligations controlling shareholders was $nil 2017: $nil.
within the meaning of the Listing Rules Significant contracts Due to the nature of Hikmas business, members of Hikma are party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change Principal activity of control of Hikma following a takeover.
However, none of these The principal activities of Hikma are the development, manufacture agreements is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its and marketing of a broad range of generic, branded and in-licensed potential impact on the business of Hikma taken as a whole.
Hikmas pharmaceutical operations are The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Hikma and conducted through three business segments: Injectables, Generics, its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of and Branded.
The majority of Hikmas operations are in the MENA office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Hikma does not have overseas branches within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
There are no persons, with whom Hikma has contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business of Hikma.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 105 Directors report continued Directors Other than the shareholder agreement between Boehringer Ingelheim It is the Boards policy that all Directors should retire and, should BI and Hikma the Agreement, the Directors are not aware of any the Director wish to continue in office, seek election or re-election agreements between holders of Hikmas shares that may have on an annual basis.
Accordingly, Said Darwazah, Siggi Olafsson, resulted in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Mazen Darwazah, Robert Pickering, Ali Al-Husry, Patrick Butler, The Agreement restricts BIs voting rights to 28,500,000 shares as Dr Pamela Kirby, Dr Jochen Gann, John Castellani and Nina Henderson long as it holds shares in excess of this level and the onward transfer will seek re-election at the AGM.
of shares, as disclosed in the combined Prospectus and Circular posted to shareholders on 21 January 2016.
No person has any special rights Indemnities and insurance with regard to the control of Hikmas share capital and all issued shares Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers are fully paid.
Hikma has not placed any Shares into treasury during the insurance.
The Directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnities period under review.
made by Hikma that were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation Share buy-back to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 May 2018, shareholders the course of the performance of their duties.
gave the Directors authority to purchase shares from the market up to an amount equal to 10% of Hikmas issued share capital at that time.
Auditors This authority expires at the earlier of 30 June 2019 or the 2019 AGM, Each person who was a Director of Hikma at the date when this report which is scheduled for 17 May 2019.
The Directors have not used this was approved confirms that: authority during the year, but are proposing to renew this authority at the 2019 AGM.
Additionally, at the Extraordinary General Meeting held so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information on 19 February 2016, shareholders gave the Directors authority to of which Hikmas auditors are unaware re-purchase Shares from BI that were issued in respect of the the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Columbus acquisition.
This authority expires on 22 January 2021. taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Hikmas auditors are aware Share issuance of that information At the AGM on 18 May 2018, the Directors were authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,023,630 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance and to be empowered to allot equity securities for cash on a non with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,203,394 at any time up to the earlier of the date of the 2019 AGM or 30 June Employment 2019.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at the 2019 AGM During the year, Hikma continued to operate its existing employee for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Hikmas engagement mechanisms which include Intra-Group communications, obligations to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various social networking, an open door policy for legitimate union share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have no present representatives and the operation of share incentive arrangements.
intention of issuing any additional share capital of Hikma.
During 2019, Nina Henderson will undertake employee engagement activities as described on page 70.
Hikma does not discriminate against Details of the employee share schemes are set out in Note 38 a potential employee on grounds of disability and will make reasonable to the financial statements on pages 160 and 161.
Shares are also held adjustments to employ and develop disabled people.
by the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Employee Benefit Trust EBT and are detailed in Note 35 to the financial statements on page 157.
The EBT has Equity waived its right to vote on the shares it holds and also to its entitlement Capital structure to a dividend.
No other shareholder has waived the right to a dividend.
Details of the issued share capital, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year, can be found in Note 33 to the Annual General Meeting financial statements on page 156.
Hikma has one class of Ordinary The AGM of Hikma will be held at Sofitel St James, 6 Waterloo Place, Shares of 10 pence each Shares which carries no right to fixed income.
London SW1Y 4AN on Friday, 17 May 2019, starting at 10.00 am Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Hikma.
The Notice convening the meeting is given in a separate document accompanying this document, and includes a commentary on the As at 31 December 2018: business of the AGM, and notes to help shareholders exercise their rights at the meeting.
Issued during Type Nominal value In issue the year Hikma provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll rather than Shares 10 pence 241,455,394 776,500 by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
During 2018, Hikma issued Ordinary Shares solely pursuant to the The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is projected onto a exercise of options under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan, 2009 screen as each resolution is put to the meeting.
A vote withheld Management Incentive Plan and 2014 Executive Incentive Plan.
explanation is included on the proxy cards.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the The powers of the Directors are determined by the Articles, the UK transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provision Code and other relevant UK legislation.
The Articles give the Directors Hikmas Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
the power to appoint and remove Directors.
The power to issue and allot shares contained in the Articles is subject to shareholder approval at each AGM.
The Articles, which are available on the website, may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
106 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Directors report Substantial shareholdings make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable As at the date of this document, Hikma had been notified pursuant to and prudent sections 89A to 89L of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA of it is inappropriate to presume that the group and company will the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the share capital continue in business of Hikma: The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Name of shareholder Number of shares Percentage held group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 1 Darhold Limited 60,000,000 24.9% prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
2 Boehringer Ingelheim 40,000,000 16.6% The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Capital Group International 23,275,396 9.6% that are sufficient to show and explain the group and companys Fidelity International 9,791,950 4.1% transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and company and enable them to ensure Vanguard Healthcare Fund 7,284,981 3.0% that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 1.
Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah and Ali Al-Husry, each being a Director and shareholder of Hikma, are shareholders and non-executive directors of Darhold Limited.
See page 101 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
for details of their holdings in Darhold Limited 2.
Dr Jochen Gann is a Director of Hikma and a senior executive of Boehringer Ingelheim The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the There have been no changes in substantial shareholdings notified to preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Hikma since the year-end.
Pre-emptive issue of shares We confirm to the best of our knowledge: During the year under review, and in the period since the date of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Hikmas Initial Public Offering on 1 November 2005, Hikma did not issue Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, any shares pursuant to an authority given by shareholders at an AGM to liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Hikma and issue shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis, other than in respect the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole of the placing undertaken on 17 January 2008. the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Hikma and the Post balance sheet events undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Since the year end, a litigation matter with an external party was together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties determined in Hikmas favour resulting in a payment of $32million that they face becoming due to Hikma.
Additionally, the acquisition of a facility in the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, Vietnam was completed for total consideration that is not expected are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information to exceed $17 million.
necessary for shareholders to assess Hikmas performance, business model and strategy Directors responsibility statement Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
On behalf of the Board Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Said Darwazah company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Executive Chairman Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting 12 March 2019 Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law.
In preparing the group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Sigurdur Olafsson group and company and of the profit or loss of the group and company Chief Executive Officer for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are 12 March 2019 required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 107 Financial statements We deliver accurate, high-quality and timely information to all stakeholders with the utmost integrity and efficiency.
109 Independent auditors report 116 Consolidated financial statements 168 Company financial statements 170 Notes to the Company financial statements 108 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
