Executive Committee The full biographies of Hikmas Executive Committee can be found on the Hikma website: www.
com about leadership Khalid Nabilsi Mazen Darwazah Siggi Olafsson Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice Chairman, President of MENA Chief Executive Officer Joined: 2001 Joined: 1985 Joined: 2018 Nationality: Icelandic Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian For further biographical details please see page 66.
Role: Khalid is responsible for Group finance, For further biographical details please see page 66. including reporting and capital management.
Khalid has held several financial positions during 18 years with Hikma, including VP Finance.
MBA from the University of Hull.
Brian Hoffmann Bassam Kanaan Majda Labadi President, US Generics EVP, Corporate Development and M&A EVP, Organisational Development Joined: 2009 Joined: 2001 Joined: 1985 Nationality: American Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Role: Brian is responsible for all aspects of the Role: Bassam has Group level responsibility for Role: Majda has Group level responsibility for Generics division in the US.
Brian has significant strategic development, acquisitions and alliances.
Majda has held several executive strategic and operational experience from leadership Bassam has held several executive positions during positions during 33 years with Hikma, including roles at Hikma and prior consulting roles.
18 years with Hikma, including Chief Financial Officer.
VP Injectables and VP MENA Operations.
Qualifications: BA in Business Administration Qualifications: US Certified Public Accountant and Qualifications: BA from the American University from Boston University.
MBA from the University Chartered Financial Analyst.
BA from Claremont of Beirut.
Masters degree from Hochschule of Chicago.
International Executive MBA from Kellogg Fur Okonomie, Germany.
Advanced Management Recanati Schools of Management.
Susan Ringdal Riad Mishlawi Henriette Nielsen EVP, Strategic Planning and Global Affairs President, Injectables EVP, Business Operations Joined: 2005 Joined: 1990 Joined: 2018 Nationality: Lebanese Nationality: Danish Nationality: American Role: Riad is responsible for all aspects of the Role: Henriette leads the Groups legal, compliance, Role: Susan is responsible for strategic planning, Injectables division globally.
Riad has significant risk, IT, business improvement, pharmacovigilance investor relations, corporate affairs and business pharmaceutical and operational experience from and digital functions.
Prior to joining Hikma, Susan worked leadership roles at Hikma and Watson for Alliance Unichem and Morgan Stanley.
Qualifications: Law Degree from the University Pharmaceuticals.
Master of Laws from the University Qualifications: BA in History from Cornell University.
Qualifications: BSc in Engineering and a Masters of Edinburgh.
MBA from London Business School.
in Engineering and Management from George Washington University.
68 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
