Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Directors Report other statutory information Principal activities and strategic report The Company acts as a holding company to all the Groups subsidiaries.
During 2018 the principal activities of the Group comprised the manufacture and supply of: Infrastructure Products Roads and Utilities : and Galvanizing Services Pages 1 to 49 contain further details of these areas of the business and the principal subsidiaries operating within them are set out on pages 166 to 168.
The Chairmans Statement and the Directors Strategic Report include: An analysis of the development and performance of the Companys business during the financial year: Key performance indicators used to measure the Groups performance: The position of the Companys business at the end of the financial year: A description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business.
Future development An indication of likely future developments in the Group is given in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49.
Statement on corporate governance The Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 comprises sections of the Annual Report referred to under Strategic Report, and Governance Report, which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
Results The Group profit before taxation for the year amounted to 59.8m 2017: 70.2m.
Group revenue at 637.9m was 9% higher than the prior year.
Operating profit at 65.2m was 12% down on the previous year 2017: 74.1m.
Share capital summary Exchange trade The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange Class Single class of ordinary shares of 25p each Issued share capital 1 January 2018 78,697,103 Total new ordinary shares issued during the year 315,161 Issued share capital 31 December 2018 79,012,264 Rights and obligations All issued shares rank equally.
Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Further details can be found in note 21 on pages 139 and 140 of the Group Financial Statements.
Details of the results for the year are shown on the Consolidated Income Statement on page 99 and the business segment information is given on pages 113 to 115.
Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 21.8p per ordinary share 2017: 20.6p per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.0p per ordinary share 2017: 9.4p per ordinary share paid on 4 January 2019, makes a total distribution for the year of 31.8p per ordinary share 2017: 30.0p per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2019 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 May 2019.
The latest date for receipt of Dividend Re-investment Plan elections is 10 June 2019.
Share capital There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company provided they are fully paid up and the Company does not hold any lien over them and as the shares rank equally none of them carry any special rights with regards to control of the Company.
Such equal rights apply to shares acquired through any of the Companys employee share schemes and those shares so acquired carry no lesser or greater rights than shares acquired in the Company in any other way.
Accordingly there are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to any shares, whether relating to the level of shareholding or otherwise.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders of the Company that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights.
In relation to the purchase by the Company of its own shares, the rules relating thereto are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which state that the Directors powers to authorise such purchase by the Company are subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and hsholdings.
com 87 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Directors Report continued also the UK Listing Authority requirements, as the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
At the date of this report no shares were held in treasury.
Articles of Association The rules relating to amendment of the Companys Articles of Association are that any change must be authorised by a special resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
Accordingly the following resolutions are to be put to the members of the Company at the Companys AGM each year: The authority for making market purchases of shares greater than 5% of the Companys then issued share capital is limited by the resolution of the 2018 AGM and will be limited by the resolution to be put to the 2019 AGM.
The prices to be paid for such purchases must be a minimum price of 25 pence per ordinary share the nominal value and a maximum price of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for ordinary shares derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which any such purchase takes place.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 provide that a company can reduce the notice period for calling meetings to the shorter period of 14 clear days on two conditions: firstly that the company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means and secondly that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving such reduction in the required minimum notice period.
Approval to the calling of general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice was approved at the AGM on 17 May 2018 to assist the Company in conducting its business and subject to any necessary matters being put to shareholders promptly.
This approval remains effective until the earlier of the Companys next following AGM or 17 August 2019.
Substantial shareholdings As at 21 February 2019, the Company had been notified in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following voting rights of the Company: Shareholder Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Aberdeen Standard Investments Standard Life 4,678,845 5.92 Canaccord Genuity Wealth Mgt 4,292,937 5.43 Mondrian Investment Partners 3,214,302 4.06 AXA Investment Mgrs 3,180,589 4.02 Legal and General Investment Mgt 2,966,489 3.75 Charles Stanley 2,902,089 3.67 Royal London Asset Mgt 2,872,676 3.63 Directors The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout the year, including brief biographies, are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors in the share capital of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC as at 31 December 2018 are set out on pages 78 and 79.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
Directors can be appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting or by the Board.
If a Director is appointed by the Board, such Director will hold office until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election at that meeting.
Conflicts Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, the Board is required to consider potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has established formal procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such conflict matters by the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation annually.
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting after his or her appointment.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interests are operating effectively.
Directors and officers liability The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance whereby Directors are indemnified against liabilities to third parties to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies are detailed in note 20 on pages 133 to 138.
Research and development During the year, the Group spent a total of 1.2m 2017: 1.6m on research and development.
88 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Political and charitable donations Charitable donations amounting to 30,000 2017: 34,000 were made in the year principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
There were no political contributions.
Employment policies Details of the Groups employment policies are available on the Companys website.
Change of control significant agreements There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a change of control, other than revised notice periods and termination payments for D W Muir and M Pegler set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 81.
The Group has a multi-currency revolving credit facility which includes a change of control provision.
Under this provision, a change in ownership control of the Company could result in withdrawal of these facilities.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to materially influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its values.
Furthermore, there are no contracts of significance subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking and a controlling shareholder or in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and has established that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Events since 31 December 2018 On 10 January 2019, the Group completed an amendment to its principal UK revolving credit facility, extending the term to January 2024 and increasing the size of the facility by 50m to c. 280m.
On 22 February 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Cobaco holdings Limited, the parent company of ATG Access Limited ATG for a cash consideration of 22.5m.
Based in the UK and exporting to over 30 countries, ATG specialises in the development, manufacture and installation of hostile vehicle mitigation perimeter security solutions including bollards, road blockers, barriers and gates Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 16 May 2019 at The Village Hotel, The Green Business Park, Shirley, Solihull, B90 4GW.
Notice is sent to shareholders separately with this Report, together with an explanation of the special business to be considered at the meeting and is also available on the Companys website at www.
Other important dates can be found in the Financial Calendar on page 164.
Alex Henderson Company Secretary 6 March 2019 hsholdings.
