Our markets Our strategic priorities are influenced by the key industry trends shaping our markets.
The global context Geopolitical tension around the Growing population Chronic diseases world is contributing to economic uncertainty.
Despite this, demand for healthcare continues to grow, 1 billion 50% By 2030, there will be an additional of global healthcare expenditure will be driven by demographic shifts and one billion people around the world directed at three therapeutic areas in 2020 changes in lifestyle.
Over the next five years, the global pharmaceutical A growing population is leading to increased Changes in lifestyle are driving demand for market is expected to grow at a demand for healthcare.
Worldwide obesity has nearly compound annual growth rate 2016, global average life expectancy increased tripled over the last 40 years, leading to 3 1 by around six years, the fastest increase since asignificant growth in related diseases.
The United Nations predicts that By2020, it is expected that 50% of global by 2030, there will be an additional one billion healthcare expenditure will be directed 4 people around the world.
atjustthree therapeutic areas cancer, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.
Global generic pharmaceutical 2 market size 2020 2016 Our strategic response: Our strategic response: $225 Across our three core geographies, We regularly meet with key stakeholders to wecontinue to invest in our manufacturing identify unmetdemand.
Our R&D teams use billion $184 capacity and capabilities to enable us this information to help select products for our tomeetcurrent and future demand.
We are focused on providing patients billion Wearecommitted to improving access with the products that they need.
IQVIA, The global use of medicine in 2019 and outlook to 2023, 2019 2.
UBS, Longer term investments, Generics, 2017 3.
United Nations, World population prospects, 2017 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Our markets Population growth and increased prevalence of chronic diseases are driving demand for better, more accessible healthcare.
Hikma is well-positioned to respond to this growing demand.
Key industry trends Pricing and access Drug shortages Competition Government regulations 50% 110 90% #5 drop in price when two generic products remain on of all US retail generics were largest pharmaceutical products enter the market the US shortage list sold to three customers company in MENA The increased demand for Over the past six years, the The generics industry is highly Many governments in MENA healthcare is putting pressure on number of new drug shortages in competitive.
In the US, have introduced regulation to government budgets.
As a result, the US has declined significantly consolidation has reduced the protect local companies and governments around the world from 251 newly-reported shortages number of buyers so that 90% of promote local manufacturing.
are looking for ways to lower the in2011 to 35 in2017.
Despite this all retail generics are sold to three Some regulations restrict the 7 cost of medicines.
improvement, around 110 products buying consortia.
At the same importation of products when remain onthe shortage list and time, the number of competitors is there is a local manufacturer.
In the US, the price of medicines drug shortages continue to have increasing and the FDA is approving Local manufacturers may also hasbecome a prominent public a significant impact on patients.
be given preferential treatment issue, with political campaigns Manufacturing issues are the in government tenders or faster 6 and media attention directed at primary cause of shortages.
In Europe, governments approval times for new products.
pharmaceutical companies and haveintroduced tendering to their approaches to drug pricing.
Outside the US, shortages are encourage competitive bidding.
In this environment, companies also presenting challenges in Across MENA, there has been an are under significant pressure Europe and MENA.
increase in local pharmaceutical tomaintain or lower drug prices.
companies, as well as an influx of generic manufacturers from Asia.
Our strategic response: Our strategic response: Our strategic response: Our strategic response: Generics are part of the solution We are committed to helping To offset price erosion, it is Our focus is on strengthening to lower drug pricing.
Our focused alleviate drug shortages.
In the critical that we have a steady our presence in our core MENA investment in R&D enables us to last two years, we have launched stream ofnew launches.
Our local management, continuously bring new generic 15 injectable products into invest 6-7% of revenue in core operations and sales teams are products to market.
R&D and are focused on experienced in navigating developing differentiated challenging market conditions.
When two generic products enter Wecontinue to invest in our products, which we expect We have invested in local a branded market, the price manufacturing capabilities and will have limited competition.
manufacturing facilities in MENA typically drops by around 50%.
capacity, enabling us to ramp markets, including FDA-inspected The discount accelerates as upproduction of products as While price is very important to plants in Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
more generic products enter required.
We also continue to our customers, there are other 5 the market.
growour broad product portfolio factors which impact purchasing to ensure we have the products decisions.
We continue to focus that patients need.
on strengthening our relationships with customers by demonstrating that we are a reliable partner.
FDA, 2017, available at https: www.
FDA drug shortages, 2018, available at https: www.
Association for Accessible Medicines, Ensuring the future of accessible medicines in the U. S. 2018 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 13
