Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Business Model Our Purpose Our Culture Our Markets Our purpose is to deliver We encourage a high degree of entrepreneurialism Our businesses serve a wide range of industries, innovative solutions in at business unit level, supported by the resources including road, rail, utilities, power generation and infrastructure products and of a larger group and within a disciplined framework construction, supplying infrastructure products galvanizing services, for the of clear strategic priorities, whilst at the same as well as corrosion protection services.
Our benefit of our shareholders, time applying the appropriate level of corporate largest markets are the UK and US, but we also customers and employees.
have businesses in Scandinavia, France, India and Australia.
For more information see pages 12 to 17. Business Segments Product areas Infrastructure Infrastructure Roads Roads Our Roads businesses design, manufacture and supply products including permanent road safety barriers and other vehicle restraint solutions, temporary work zone protection products, hostile vehicle mitigation products, street lighting For more columns, car park and bridge parapets, and variable road information see 12 message systems.
Infrastructure Infrastructure Utilities Our Utilities businesses design, manufacture and supply Utilities products and services for the power generation, liquefied natural gas, renewables, utilities, construction and other industrial sectors.
These include pipe supports, electricity transmission For more structures, energy components, liquid storage and water information see management solutions, perimeter security, industrial flooring and 14 page 14. access systems, and GRP composite products.
Galvanizing Services Galvanizing The Galvanizing Services division provides corrosion Services protection services, in the form of hot dip zinc galvanizing and other coatings, for metal products used in a wide range of infrastructure and other industrial applications.
It serves external customers, as well as the Groups infrastructure product For more companies, through a network of facilities in the UK, France and information see 16 the North East region of the USA.
For shareholders For customers A focused and well balanced A highly customer-focused group of businesses, group capable of generating Creating Value committed to operational excellence and sustainable profitable growth delivering innovative solutions, superior and superior total shareholder manufacturing capability and the highest quality returns.
8 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our Strategy Our Governance Our strategy is to deliver sustainable profitable growth through product The Board is collectively responsible for upholding high standards development, innovation and international expansion.
We target of corporate governance and leadership, and we place a high geographies with high levels of infrastructure investment driven either priority on meeting our environmental and social responsibilities, by regulation, health & safety, security or environmental concerns, or by whilst continuing to deliver value to shareholders.
Effective risk emerging economic growth, or both.
Growth is achieved organically and management is critical to the achievement of our strategy, and through acquisition, and we actively manage our business portfolio.
our risk management processes are integrated into daily business activities.
For more information see pages 32 to 39 and 52 to 82.
Growth strategy Outcome Revenue Growth and Targeted Returns The Board ensures that revenue growth is achieved at each individual business unit alongside appropriate targets for margins, return on invested capital and debt, which in turn flows through to sustainable profitable growth at Group level.
The Groups targets are as follows: ROIC of 20%: underlying margin of 12% - 15%: net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5 - 2.0x.
A strong track record, over many years, of profitable growth, cash generation and increasing Geographical Expansion dividends.
We have a major presence in the UK and the US.
From that strong base, we target further geographies where infrastructure is either being upgraded or is being invested in, where our existing A balanced portfolio of responsibly solutions can readily and profitably be introduced, and where managed businesses today, with businesses can be acquired to enhance our market position.
leading niche positions in growth markets.
Entrepreneurial Culture A growth strategy, management culture and financial profile that We require and incentivise our individual business units to exercise create a strong platform for agility and entrepreneurialism, and we allow them room to do so.
This further sustained, superior Total approach ensures that decisions are made close to the market and Shareholder Returns over time.
that our businesses can respond rapidly both to opportunities and to changes in their competitive environment.
Portfolio Management We manage our business portfolio proactively.
We supplement organic growth with acquisitions that complement our existing activities and create new growth opportunities, but we also closely monitor all our businesses to ensure that they are capable of contributing to the attainment of the Groups overall growth targets.
Where this is not the case prompt action is taken, whether through restructuring or divestment.
For employees As an employer committed to providing the right environment in which to work we insist that people connected with the Group can work safely, are trained correctly, behave in the right way, and comply with all local legal and regulatory requirements, thus ensuring the sustainability of the business as well as the environment and the communities in which we operate.
We do this by implementing the correct policies and procedures relating to our people and the environment, by successfully delivering an effective health & safety system, and by encouraging our businesses to interact with their local communities.
See pages 42 to 43 for more information.
