Corporate governance | Committees | Audit Audit Committee Letter from the Chair Raising capabilities and improving resilience Pat Butler 2018 Highlights Dear Shareholders Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk management This report, summarises the work of the Committee over the last year, programmes, and suggested changes to priorities and processes including the matters that we have found most challenging, where Requested the attendance of the CEO to better understanding the careful judgement has been required.
operational context and management focus Assessed the impact of new accounting standards Commentary The 2018 year has been successful for the Audit Committee.
The Re-assessed our medium-term projections and longer-term prospects and finance team has been strengthened over the year with several new asset valuations, and assessed potential for impairments and writebacks senior appointments in areas, such as forecasting and leadership of Assessed managements progress on improving financial and operational the US where circa 62% of our business is based.
The team is well processes positioned to grow and develop with the business and is continuing to strengthen the accounting platforms and processes.
As a result, 2019 Priorities the recent year-end financial reporting process has been smooth.
Considering and assessing the impacts of the change in operational structure on reporting Following the impairment at the 2017 year end, the Committee reviewed managements 2018 reassessment and is pleased to report that each Improving the strategic information from the risk management programme cash generating unit business division has appropriate headroom.
Overseeing the strengthening of information technology platforms We also considered the impact of the impairment on distributable Enhancing the financial reporting, processing and forecasting capabilities reserves and concurred with managements assessment that Hikma has sufficient reserves for its dividend programme.
Allocation of time The Committee received and reviewed regular capital expenditure Corporate governance 7% and treasury reports from management and projected investment External audit 15% requirements of Hikma.
During the year, Hikma has reduced its overall Financial reporting 31% debt using free cash flow, whilst ensuring that sufficient facilities are Forecasts 20% available to fund future capital projects.
Internal audit 14% Risk 13% We reviewed the progress of the Chief Information Officers programme to improve cyber resilience.
We will continue to monitor this programme, as well wider programmes associated with business continuity.
The Committee oversees the work of Hikmas risk function, which Members and attendance is reported on pages 55 to 61.
The Board undertook a robust Member Meetings Attendance assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties during the year, 1 Pat Butler Chair 9 9 100% as detailed on pages 58 to 60 and reviewed Hikmas risk appetite, 2 as detailed on page 56.
Dr Ronald Goode 5 5 100% Robert Pickering 9 9 100% The Enterprise Risk Management process, has become well embedded in the organisation.
In 2018 the organisation made particularly good Dr Pamela Kirby 9 9 100% progress in developing quantitative risk indicators.
John Castellani 9 9 100% Nina Henderson 9 9 100% The Committee was delighted that Siggi Olafsson accepted the request to attend meetings where appropriate, to provide greater operational 1.
Pat Butler, the Independent Chair has extensive experience of financing, accounting, risk and internal control matters and is therefore considered to have recent and relevant context to the reports received in the discharge of the Committees financial experience.
All members are independent and when considered as a whole, responsibilities.
Siggis involvement has particularly helped in have competence relevant to the sector in which Hikma is operating.
Dr Ronald Goode, responding to internal audit recommendations and clarifying ownership Dr Pamela Kirby and John Castellani all have extensive pharmaceutical experience of principal risks.
Dr Ronald Goode retired following the 2018 May AGM 3.
Cynthia Schwalm is to join the Committee on 1 June 2019 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 73 Audit Committee continued Significant judgements Going concern: The Committee assessed the going concern position The Audit Committee considered and discussed the following when preparing the annual and half-yearly financial statements.
important financial matters: The Committee took into account Hikmas forecasts and budget, borrowing facilities, contingent liabilities, medium and long-term Impairment: The Committee asked management to assess the plans, and financial and operational risk management.
See page 61. impairment position early in the audit process and to develop Viability: The Committee reviewed the medium-term business a policy for impairment reversal.
The Committee reviewed and projections and considered the scenarios that could impact those challenged the estimate of the fair value of assets and liabilities.
projects and the ability of Hikma to remain viable.
Following the impairment incurred last year, the changes to managements medium-term expectations for Hikma were not External audit significant and led to an impairment of $9million 2017: $1,084million.
The policy for impairment reversal has been agreed in principle and The external audit was undertaken by  LLP its application will be further developed during 2019.
PwC as it has been since their appointment in May 2016, following a Exceptional items: The major exceptional items for Hikma were competitive tender process.
Mr Mark Gill was appointed as the senior related to product development clinical studies, acquisition related statutory auditor in May 2017. costs and software.
The Committee reviewed the treatment of these items and managements assessment of their impact.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the work of PwC and Legal matters: The Committee reviewed managements conclusions concluded that they provide an effective audit and have constructive regarding the appropriate accounting treatment for the settlement of relationships with the relevant parties.
As part of this review the legal claims in Hikmas favour.
Hikma has claims against other parties, Committee examined the following areas: claims from third parties against Hikma, and formal information requests from regulatory authorities relating to a wide range of Audit quality and technical capabilities: The Committee considered matters that are in the normal course of business for a generic that the auditors undertook an effective and in-depth assessment pharmaceutical company.
and verification exercise and that the level of expertise PwC brought Investment in subsidiaries and distributable reserves: Hikmas fixed to bear was high.
and intangible assets are held in various subsidiaries.
As the 2017 Independence: The Committee regularly reviews the independence impairment was applied across Hikma, the value of the assets in safeguards of the auditors and remains satisfied that auditor those subsidiaries was re-assessed.
The Committee reviewed the independence has not been compromised.
re-assessment exercise and the resulting implications for Non-audit fees: The Committees policy is that the external auditors distributable reserves of the holding company.
The Group continues should not undertake any work outside the scope of their annual to have sufficient distributable reserves.
The Committee has discretion to grant exceptions to this Accounting standards: Management reviewed the application of policy where it considers that exceptional circumstances exist and new accounting standards related to revenue recognition IFRS 15, that independence can be maintained.
The Committees approval the measurement of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 9, and is required to instruct PwCs services.
the treatment of leases IFRS 16.
The Committee considered and challenged managements assessments.
The impact of these The Committee provides feedback on the auditors performance as changes is detailed in note 44 of the financial statements.
part of the regular meetings with them without management present, Revenue recognition: The Committee reviewed the Groups policies takes into account the reports and analysis of the Financial Reporting for revenue recognition and the application by management of those Council, and believes that there is an open and appropriately policies in relation to significant products where the potential for challenging relationship between the audit leadership team, the Audit returns and rebates was high.
The Committee assessed the reports Committee and management.
on the processing of chargebacks and rebates in the US.
This is a judgemental area and applies to a significant proportion of Group The Committee confirms that the statutory audit services for the revenue.
In response to recommendations by the internal auditors financial year under review were conducted in compliance with the that were endorsed by the Committee, management has enhanced Competition and Markets Authority Order, and a competitive audit the control environment.
The Committee considered modelling tender process was undertaken in 2015. environment and the appropriateness of associated provisions.
Taxation: Hikmas worldwide operations are highly integrated and involve a number of cross-border supply chains, which results in Auditors fee $m judgement being required to estimate the potential tax liabilities in some jurisdictions.
The Committee took advice from professional services firms and management in this regard, and considered the $2.6m resulting impact on the effective tax rate and the deferred tax assets in key markets.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of PwC the disclosures in the Annual Report, and reviewed and approved Groups tax strategy statement, which is available on the website.
100% $2.6m 1 Jan The Committee reviewed managements proposals to deliver 31 Dec 2018 0% 100% $0.0m sufficient financial resources for certain subsidiaries.
$2.4m 100% 1 Jan 31 Dec 2017 0% $0.0m Non-audit related fees Audit related fees Tax services Other non-audit services 74 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Committees | Audit Internal control Payroll and salary review processes have been segregated, except The Board confirms that it is ultimately responsible for ensuring for those at very small facilities where it is not practical to do so that Hikmas systems of internal controls and risk management A group level CFO has been assigned to oversee the financial remain effective.
aspects of R&D and each project is now segregated and monitored independently The key elements of our internal control framework are as follows: During the year, the Board reviewed and approved managements A documented and disseminated reporting structure with clear plans for making these enhancements which will take place during policies, procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties 2019 and 2020. and delegated authorities Written policies and procedures for material functional areas with Internal audit specific responsibility allocated to individual managers The internal audit of Hikma is performed by EY, who report directly A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes to the Chair of the Committee.
EY assess each Hikma facility and regular comparison of results against budget and forecast and all relevant processes over a three-year period.
For major sites, a review of KPIs, each informed by management commentary assessments are more frequent.
Management is required to respond An established process for reviewing the financial performance to findings within a short period and, where necessary, complete all and providing support to Hikma companies and associates together process improvements within two years, with 80% of high-risk items with direct support from Hikmas finance function being completed within six months.
There is a regular programme Annual budgets, updated forecasts and long-term business plans of interaction between EY and the Committee.
for Hikma that identify risks and opportunities and that are reviewed and approved by the Board During the year EY identified the following key areas for strengthening A defined process for controlling capital expenditure which is of controls which the Committee considers are being appropriately detailed in the governance framework progressed by management: Updating fixed registers more frequently The Board is satisfied that Hikmas systems for internal control accord Implementing further improvements to the IT and access with the FRCs guidance, and have been in place throughout the year environment and associated operational procedures under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In making this assessment, the Board takes into account: Key internal audit events Risk: The principal risks and uncertainties and risk management During the year, the Committee reviewed the controls for ensuring report, detailed on pages 53 to 61, that forms a fundamental part the independence of the internal auditors as part of its review of the of Hikmas approach to designing and implementing new and effectiveness of the programme and assessment of EYs interaction enhancements to existing controls with the business.
The Committee concluded that EY maintained their Internal audit: The Committee receives regular reports from the independence and conducted an effective internal audit programme.
internal auditors who assess Hikmas processes, identify areas for improvement, monitor progress, and undertake their own May July assessment of the risks facing Hikma The Committee Chair meets EY EY report their initial findings to Financial performance: Hikmas financial performance and in order to undertake a thorough the full Committee.
The forecasting reports are reviewed by the Board to aid the review of the internal audit Committee meets with EY without understanding of the underlying performance of the business, findings to date and the management present deviations from expectations and managements operational management responses challenges and responses Ethics: The business integrity and ethics procedures and controls November December that are led by the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee The Committee Chair has a further EY report their full-year findings, Governance: The Board and group-level controls and processes that meeting with EY to undertake an risk assessment and plan for the make up our approach to governance that is led by the Nomination in-depth review of the full-year following year to the Committee.
and Governance Committee and includes all appropriate financial audit findings, review the results The Committee meets with EY controls and matters reserved of the priority areas that are without management present External auditor: The regular and confidential dialogue with the identified in conjunction with external auditor management and consider the plan for the following year The Board monitors the ongoing effectiveness of the internal control systems and encourages continuous improvement.
In the Committees 2017 report to shareholders, we identified five areas for improvement which are not considered significant, and have since been addressed: The Committee receives regular updates on managements upgrades to the financial systems in accordance with a project plan with clear milestones The changes to the finance department are reported in the Chairs letter on page 73 Significant improvements have been made processing returns and rebates following leadership change Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 75 Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosure and seeks to continuously improve the clarity of its reporting.
At the request of the Siggis involvement has particularly Board, the Audit Committee considers whether Hikmas Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that the narrative section of helped in responding to internal audit the report is consistent with the financial information.
The Committees recommendations and clarifying ownership assessment is underpinned by a comprehensive review conducted by the Reporting Committee, which consists of the leads for finance, of principal risks.
investor relations, risk, communications and governance, and is supported by divisional and functional heads, as required.
The Reporting Committees activities include: Additional information Initiating the review process for the Annual Report significantly Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at Hikmas before the year end, considering external developments, issuing registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting guidance to contributors and identifying areas for improvement cosec@hikma.
Obtaining input from external advisers, including the auditors, Alternatively, please visit our website for more information of the below.
designers, brokers and public relations advisers Appointing a project manager to ensure liaison between Calendar of events departments and delivery to the agreed plan Internal and external advisers Undertaking several multi-functional offsite reviews of the Responsibilities and terms of reference disclosures as a whole prior to the publication of the Annual Report www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees Overseeing a verification process to ensure the accuracy of audit-committee disclosures Each member of the Audit Committee and the Reporting Committee was satisfied that the 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and recommended the adoption of the report and accounts to the Board.
Board of Directors going concern statement The Directors considered the going concern position as detailed on page 61.
The Directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business and financing risks successfully despite current uncertainties.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence: therefore, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Board of Directors viability statement The Directors, having considered the longer-term viability position as detailed on page 61, confirm that theyhave a reasonable expectation that Hikma will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities over the viability period which ends on 31 December 2021.
As ever, if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Pat Butler Chair of the Audit Committee 12 March 2019 76 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Committees | Nomination and Governance Nomination and Governance Committee Letter from the Chair Enhancing leadership and strengthening governance Robert Pickering 2018 Highlights Dear Shareholders Initiated an extensive search process for an additional Independent Director During the year, the Nomination and Governance Committee has Developed a new succession plan for Independent Directors continued to lead succession planning for Independent Directors Implemented an appropriate response to forthcoming changes to the UK and executive management, governance, board structure and Governance Code board effectiveness.
Enhanced the controls related to defence and the delegation of authority Executive succession to the CEO As reported last year, in February 2018 the Committee completed its search for a new Chief Executive Officer CEO.
This resulted in Siggi 2019 Priorities Olafsson joining Hikma, becoming the first non-family CEO of Hikma.
In late 2018, Siggi made some adjustments to the Executive Committee.
Developing a new plan for the succession of the Executive Directors As the changes become fully embedded and new team members and Executive Committee Members become more established in their roles, the Committee will develop Complete the appointment and induction of an additional Independent a new executive succession plan later in 2019, which will include the Director Executive Directors.
Consider succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and Committee Chair Independent succession With the retirement of Dr Ronald Goode in May 2018, Hikma completed the 2014 succession plan which related to Independent Directors who Allocation of time joined when the Group listed.
During 2018, the Committee developed Corporate governance 29% new arrangements for the succession of the current Independent Diversity 14% Directors and considered candidates for additional appointments, with Independence 14% a particular emphasis on gaining additional US healthcare experience, Skills and experience 17% as well as enhancing gender diversity.
This process led to the Succession 25% appointment of Cynthia Schwalm as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2019.
The Committee is committed to ensuring an independent majority on the Board and enhancing diversity.
The Company Secretary has developed a tailored induction programme for Cynthia, including presentations and advice from Members and attendance external experts.
During 2019, the Committee will further develop the Member Meetings Attendance plans for medium-term succession for the Independent Directors.
This will include consideration of my roles, being the positions of Senior Robert Pickering Chair 6 6 100% Independent Director and Chair of this Committee.
Mazen Darwazah 6 6 100% 1 The Committees policy on tenure is that the Independent NonPat Butler 5 6 83% Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for a period of up Nina Henderson 6 6 100% to nine years.
Their appointments are formally reviewed after three 1.
Pat Butler was unable to attend one meeting due to timing change made by Hikma years and at six years a more rigorous review process is undertaken.
Cynthia Schwalm is to join the Committee on 1 June 2019 Experience and training The Committee continues to believe that a longer induction period is desirable for new Independent Directors to allow for building understanding of the business and, where succession for a Committee Chair is taking place, the transfer of knowledge and relationships associated with the particular committee.
Additionally, the Board believes it is important for all directors to have significant international experience at an executive level, a challenging yet consensual style, and the highest level of integrity.
The Committee regularly considers Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 77 Nomination and Governance Committee continued whether there may be gaps in fulfilling the specific and in-depth experiences that the Board requires as a whole, which focuses on the following areas: The Committee is committed to ensuring an business environment in both the US and the MENA independent majority on the Board pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution and enhancing diversity.
development of new generic pharmaceutical capabilities listing regulation, investor perceptions and governance Hikma supports Directors in their continued development.
As the Directors are highly experienced, their training needs tend to engaging talented people, irrespective of their race, colour, religious be related to either ensuring awareness of changes in the business, creed, age, sex, marital status, national origin, present or past history political and regulatory environment, or bespoke training and of mental or physical disability and any other factors not related to a mentoring on a particular area for development.
Therefore, Hikma persons ability to perform a role.
Since its founding, Hikma has actively financially supports specific training requests and ensures that promoted gender diversity across its operations and continues to have Directors are briefed by internal and external advisers on a regular excellent diversity in terms of culture, age, background, skills and basis.
Additionally, the Chair of this Committee and Company Secretary experience.
Hikma has successful empowerment and talent arranged briefings for directors during the year on matters such as development programmes to help all employees make the most of their global politics, the pharmaceutical regulatory and competitive potential.
This diversity policy has been included in our updated Code environment, capital markets and listing related developments.
of Conduct and communicated to all employees.
Further detail on employee diversity is provided in the Sustainability report on page 51.
Commitment and interests The Committee considers the commitment of all directors both in terms The Committee was pleased to be able to improve gender diversity of dedication to the role and their time availability.
In order to ensure over the past few years, including the recent appointment of Cynthia an appropriate balance of skills and diversity across the boardroom, Schwalm.
The Committee considers that the current level of gender the Committee has made accommodations to the board calendar diversity needs to at least be maintained, if not enhanced please see to maximise availability and has acknowledged that there are times the gender diversity information on page 65.
The Board has not set when this may mean that full attendance may not be achieved.
specific, measurable diversity objectives because it needs flexibility The Committee considers that Hikma gains more from high-quality to recruit the right candidates.
The Board considers that it has directors, than occasional situations where full attendance cannot demonstrated strong ethnic diversity since the formation of Hikma be achieved.
Having reviewed commitment and attendance during and that this diversity continues to be evident today.
the year, the Committee has concluded that all directors are fully dedicated, commit an appropriate amount of time to their roles, As Senior Independent Director, I am available at any time to discuss and are readily available at short notice.
with shareholders any matter of concern.
The Committee monitors the external appointments of directors from For and on behalf of the Nomination and Governance Committee both an availability and conflict of interest perspective, whilst noting that experiences with other organisations can enhance a Directors ability to perform the role.
Governance As part of the Committees responsibilities, it regularly reviews the Robert Pickering internal governance and control processes and keeps abreast of Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee external governance developments.
The Committee reviews Hikmas 12 March 2019 entire governance arrangements on an annual basis.
This year, the Committee focused on enhancing the defence procedures and the matters reserved to the Board, reflecting the separation of the Executive Chairman and CEO roles, and the forthcoming changes Additional information to the UK Governance Code.
Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at Hikmas registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting Re-election cosec@hikma.
Each member of the Board will stand for election or re-election at the 2019 AGM.
The position of each Board member was closely Alternatively, please visit our website for more information of the below.
reviewed during the year as part of the consideration of succession Director recruitment process arrangements, independence issues, the Board and Committee Calendar of events evaluation processes and the ongoing dialogue between the Executive Internal and external advisers Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Responsibilities and terms of reference www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees Diversity  Hikmas diversity policy applies to the whole Company, including the Board.
Hikmas inclusive workplace welcomes different cultures, perspectives, and experiences from across the globe.
Hikma welcomes variety and treats all employees equally regardless of any actual or perceived characteristic.
Hikma is committed to employing and 78 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance | Committees | Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Letter from the Chair Building on our commitment to integrity and quality John Castellani 2018 Highlights Dear Shareholders Completed an independent risk re-assessment of US ABC programme The Committee has had another busy year advancing our commitment Appointed an Executive Committee member with overall responsibility to integrity and the communities in which we operate.
This year we for all ABC, trade sanctions and compliance related matters welcomed Siggi Olafsson, Chief Executive Officer CEO, and Nina Achieved independent confirmation that the main Jordanian entities Henderson, who has board-level responsibility for overseeing employee ABC programme is in compliance with international guidelines engagement, to the Committee.
They significantly strengthen the Committee, particularly due to their direct relationship with our people.
Advanced Hikmas approach to data protection through a risk assessment and cross-functional process enhancement exercise During the year, Henriette Nielsen became EVP, Business Operations, assuming overall responsibility for all Anti-Bribery and Corruption 2019 Priorities ABC, trade sanctions and legal issues at an Executive Committee level.
The Committee considers that the coordination of these efforts under Consolidate Hikmas extensive sustainability activities under one one highly experienced individual greatly enhances our capabilities.
global strategy Further develop our assessment of our suppliers and service providers This report focuses on the matters that the Committee addressed compliance programmes during the year.
Further details related to the structure of our ABC Implement and test the ABC enhancements from recent assessments compliance and integrity programme are available on our website.
Commitment to integrity Allocation of time The Committee is very proud of Hikmas commitment to high standards ABC 27% of business integrity, which is one of the four pillars of our values.
It Anti-trust and trade sanctions 15% includes the Boards long-standing zero-tolerance of bribery and Corporate governance 25% corruption which has been demonstrated by being a founding member Sustainability 33% of the World Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative.
Hikma operates in some markets that are considered higher risk by ABC advisers, however: the Committee is pleased that Hikmas performance and leadership on business integrity has been recognised by several of our customers and suppliers in these jurisdictions.
The Committee is pleased to report that at several points during the Members and attendance year, the CEO highlighted the importance of the ABC programme to Member Meetings Attendance our people at events, via Hikmas intranet, and at the Global Leadership Conference.
John Castellani Chair 7 7 100% 1 Siggi Olafsson 2 2 100% ABC programme 2 Due to the top-down commitment of our senior management and Mazen Darwazah 6 7 86% the effectiveness of our compliance team, our ABC programme is now 3 Pat Butler 6 7 86% well embedded into the organisation.
The Committee receives regular 4 Dr Ronald Goode 3 3 100% reports on issues arising and oversees the continued improvement of the programme.
Dr Pamela Kirby 7 7 100% 1 Nina Henderson 2 2 100% Good Corporation have continued their independent risk assessment of our ABC procedures.
This year, they re-assessed our Generics and 1.
Siggi Olafsson and Nina Henderson became members of the Committee on Injectables operations in the US.
The report detailed certain 7November2018 enhancements that are being implemented by the EVP, Business 2.
Mazen Darwazah was unable to attend one meeting due to illness Operations during 2019 and will be re-assessed later in the year.
Pat Butler was unable to attend one meeting due to a timing change made by Hikma 4.
Dr Ronald Goode retired following the May 2018 AGM Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 79 Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee continued During the year, we instructed Kroll Associates to undertake an independent assessment of our ABC practices of our main Jordanian entities as part of our global ABC programme.
The Committee is The CEO highlighted the importance of the pleased to report that the assessment was successful and the areas identified for improvement will be addressed over the course of 2019.
ABC programme to our people at events, via Hikmas intranet, and at the Global Code of Conduct The Committee continues to oversee the development and promotion Leadership Conference.
of Hikmas Code of Conduct, which embodies the important moral and ethical values that Hikma promotes.
The Code guides all the Committees activities and is the key reference point for all our employees.
Sustainability The Committee has overseen, encouraged and supported the Training Sustainability programme which is so clearly linked to our founders Hikma undertakes direct integrity training programmes for its sales and desire to improve lives, particularly through educational and marketing employees.
Additionally, it has an online ABC training module development opportunities for the least privileged.
Our Sustainability that has been integrated with our HR on-boarding activities.
The Board report is contained on pages 42 to 54.
For 2019, the Committee has has fully supported the training programme, which all directors, officers requested that management further consolidate Hikmas sustainability and executive committee members have completed.
activities into a global programme that supports a small group of strategic objectives linked to the direction and history of Hikma.
Speak-up The Committee remains satisfied that the procedures, which include Ethical issues a committee of senior Group employees that undertake proportionate The Committee oversaw Hikmas response to ethical issues arising investigations and implements corrective action, are appropriate and during the year, including the potential misuse of products effective.
The Committee continued to receive regular reports on issues by Departments of Corrections in the US.
identified through the Group-wide speak-up arrangements, which include confidential reporting lines that report directly to the I am available at any time to discuss with shareholders any matter Investigations Committee.
Anti-trust and trade sanctions For and on behalf of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics The General Counsel oversees Hikmas compliance with the anti-trust, Committee and trade sanctions legislation and reports to the Committee in this regard.
Hikma has established extensive policies and procedures to ensure compliance, which have been reviewed by management during the year.
During the year, the General Counsel provided advice to the Committee on the changing sanctions landscape and how this affects Hikmas operations and strategy.
Furthermore, the legal team John Castellani undertook a Group-wide training programme on anti-trust and trade Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee sanctions, and finalised an online training tool during the year.
12 March 2019 Compliance with Criminal Finances Act The Committee has overseen the implementation of processes in Additional information response to the prevention of tax evasion legislation from the UK Copies on the work and policies of the Committee are available at Hikmas Government.
Hikmas processes and procedures are proportionate registered office, 1 New Burlington Place, London W1S 2HR or by contacting to its risk of failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
steadfast in applying the principles of the UK tax evasion legislation across all its businesses within Hikma and will continue to oversee Alternatively, please visit our website for more information of the below.
Calendar of events Internal and external advisers Modern slavery Responsibilities and terms of reference Hikma is committed to ensuring that modern slavery in the form of www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking does not take place in any of its businesses or supply chains across the globe.
Key measures in support of this goal include: Commitment to integrity www.
com sustainability global-frameworks training Hikma staff on labour standards and how to recognise and respond to any incidences of modern slavery Code of Conduct undertaking periodic analysis and management of any modern www.
com about  code-of-conduct slavery risk in Hikmas businesses or supply chains carrying out appropriate due diligence engaging on the issue with supply chain partners 80 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
