y t i l a u q n i a t n i a m d n a e r u t c a f u n a M M a r k e t a c r o s Our business model We operate in a competitive, highly-regulated industry, across many markets.
Our diversified business model enables us to respond to the many opportunities and challenges we face, whilst delivering value for our customers, patients, employees, shareholders and our wider communities.
Our inputs Our strategy For a full explanation of our strategy see page 16 Deliver more from a Financial strong foundation Investment in R&D, manufacturing facilities and M&A enables us to expand our product portfolio, technical capabilities and manufacturing capacity.
People We have a highly skilled, diverse and effective workforce.
Through Our activities continuous training of our people and by hiring new talent, we secure our future development.
Our activities are diversified across our business segments and markets and are aligned with our purpose to make high-quality medicines accessible to the people who need them.
Values We are committed to conducting business ethically and strive to achieve high-quality standards.
This approach helps ensure our business is sustainable.
Relationships Strong relationships with regulators Our promise and health authorities across all our Better health.
markets, and successful collaborations Within reach.
with industry partners, enable us to Every day.
Capabilities We have extensive manufacturing capabilities across our global markets focused on operational excellence and efficiency.
Our business segments: Injectables Generics Branded 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 s g e o g r a p h i e s e t a v o n n i d n a p o l e v e D Strategic report | Our business model Find out more about our key performance indicators see page 18 Find out more about how we are managing risk see page 55 The value we create Build a portfolio that Inspire and enable Patient benefits anticipates future our people We provide our patients with access health needs to high-quality medicines.
650 Compounds Employee engagement By focusing on the empowerment and development of our people, we provide long and rewarding Develop and innovate careers for our talented and diverse workforce.
We are developing broad and differentiated portfolios of generic, branded generic and in-licensed patented products through 69% internal R&D, co-development partnerships, licensing agreements Employee engagement score and acquisitions.
6% Group revenue invested in core R&D 2017: 6% Shareholder returns Manufacture and maintain quality We have a long history of creating value We are committed to maintaining high-quality standards in all for our shareholders.
We have 30 plants across the Group that supply our global markets with a broad range of injectable and 53% non-injectable products, including 11 US FDA-inspected plants Total shareholder return over last five years and 11 EMA-inspected plants.
30 11 11 manufacturing US FDA-inspected EMA-inspected plants plants plants Sustainable business By acting responsibly and with integrity, we are Market across geographies benefitting the communities in which we operate.
We actively promote, sell and distribute our products in our markets through experienced sales and marketing teams.
In the MENA region, Partnership with Direct Relief around 2,000 representatives market our brands to doctors and pharmacists, while our sales teams in the US and Europe are selling Patron of The Princes Trust to a broad range of customers, including the leading wholesalers, pharmacy chains, governments and hospital purchasing organisations.
c. 2,000 sales representatives market our products across MENA Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 15
