Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our Values At the heart of everything we do, our values underpin the behaviours of our people and of our businesses across the Group.
Protecting people and our communities Acting with integrity Innovating and developing Operational excellence Accountability 10 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 This means that we: We practise the highest standards of health and do not cut corners in pursuit of lowering cost or increasing efficiency, if it safety, promote wellbeing prejudices the health and safety or wellbeing of our colleagues and customers: for our people, both inside understand that all employees have a duty to each other to keep ourselves safe and outside of work, and from harm or injury: seek to offer protection to the communities in which we abide by our own safety policies and procedures: and work through our products will consider the impact of our actions on the community, our customers and and services.
We do the right thing, for people, our customers and This means that we: all stakeholders.
We do what we say we will do, treat our colleagues and customers with respect, even in challenging situations: expect the same of each deliver solutions which meet the exacting requirements of our customers: other and speak up when do what we say we will do, when we say it and, if we cant, we will communicate there is a problem.
We place in good time: importance on relationships internally and externally, raise our concerns with senior management if we suspect wrongdoing: and treating everyone we come in care for our colleagues and the communities in which we work.
to contact with, with respect, honesty, openness and care.
We encourage collaboration This means that we: both internally across the will always seek to meet our customers needs: worldwide Hill & Smith Group and externally with will continue to work in partnership with our customers, to develop our regulators and customers to understanding of the markets in which we both operate: deliver the right solutions to will take risks that are within our approved risk appetite in order to develop the protect our communities.
We business: are committed to developing understand we all have a shared responsibility to develop ourselves and others: our people to ensure that our and businesses have the right develop in-house talent in order to support both the business and the career skills and talents for now and aspirations of our employees.
We work alongside our customers, stakeholders and This means that we: partners to deliver solutions, continually ask ourselves is this what our customers want?
: which add value, increase efficiency and solve their treat all our customers and their products with respect: problems, whilst offering act ethically in everything we do: the highest standards continually review our manufacturing processes to ensure they are as efficient of customer service and and as environmentally considerate as possible: and behaviours, utilising superior invest in customer service training for staff in order to ensure they deliver a firstmanufacturing capabilities class experience.
and a well-trained and knowledgeable workforce.
This means that we: We take accountability for respond to changing circumstances with agility and make decisions quickly and our own work.
We take the with accuracy: initiative, seek clarity and communicate our decisions to colleagues and customers with clarity: transparency and demand achieve what we set out to achieve and learn from our mistakes: high standards from ourselves, our colleagues actively seek out opportunities for continuous development: and and our leaders.
foster a culture where our employees feel able to challenge our leadership.
com 11 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our Business Segments in 2018 Number of subsidiaries Revenue 208.5m 11 Underlying operating profit 24.2m Number of employees 927 Underlying operating margin 11.6% Market drivers Government road investment initiatives in the UK and the US: Next phase of UK Road Investment Strategy announced, with increased funding through to 2025 and with Smart Motorways at its core Implementation of US Administrations Fixing Americas Surface Transportation FAST Act through to 2021 Ongoing heightened terror threat driving demand for hostile vehicle mitigation systems for buildings and areas at risk of attack.
Strategic priorities Maintaining market-leading positions in vehicle restraint systems VRS and other road safety traffic products, sign posts and lighting columns Developing and delivering new industry-leading barrier and hostile vehicle mitigation systems through market analysis and technical development Aligning our businesses as key and sustainable supply chain partners with our clients Continuing to investigate the horizontal market integration of our manufacturing capabilities Identifying further acquisition opportunities to extend product offer and further strengthen our market positions.
Geographical spread UK 9 sites USA 5 sites in 4 states France 1 site Scandinavia 10 sites Images: Australia 1 site Above: VecuStop attached to Variguard temporary steel barrier on the M6, junctions 12 to 15, Stafford.
Facing page Top: Permanent precast concrete barrier installed on the A1M between Leeming and Thirsk, North Yorkshire.
Facing page Middle: Rebloc barrier installed in Stockholm, Sweden, by ATA.
Facing page Bottom: A Wayne County, Indiana bridge replacement project utilising Hill & Smith Incs Zoneguard rental fleet for temporary traffic control.
12 Stock Code HILS Infrastructure Roads Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Locations Employees UK 9 UK 544 International 17 International 364 Progress Growing international acceptance of temporary steel barrier safety products: major new distribution agreement with nationwide US distributor: sales into Norway, Denmark, Australia & New Zealand Investment in additional steel and concrete temporary safety barrier in the UK and Australia Continued development and deployment of new hostile vehicle mitigation products at high-profile, security-sensitive UK locations Higher demand for lighting columns in France and market share gained in northern Europe.
Expansion Three acquisitions completed to extend our product offering in line with our strategy, all successfully integrated into our existing businesses: D Gibson, UK supplier of road signs and ancillary products Signalvakter Syd, Scandinavian supplier of traffic management systems Work Area Protection Corp.
US supplier of road workzone safety and traffic control products.
Revenue and Returns Revenue up 11% 2017: 187.1m Underlying margin of 11.6%.
2017: 12.6% business segment target range 10% - 14% ROIC of 17.3% Group target ROIC: 20% hsholdings.
