44 Governance Directors report The Directors present their report together Corporate governance and other Principal activities with the audited financial statements for statutory disclosures The Group is the leading specialist the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018.
The Corporate governance statement, international food packing business.
Reference to other relevant information Board Committee reports and Directors Results and dividends incorporated into this report is below.
remuneration report on pages 52 to 68 The profit before income tax is 43.3m includes information required by DTR 7.2.
The Strategic report on pages 06 to 39 sets There are no disclosures required to be An interim dividend of 5.6p per ordinary out the development and performance of made under LR 9.8.
4. share was paid in December 2018. the Groups business during the financial Non-Financial Reporting Directive The Directors recommend the payment year, the position of the Group at the The EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive ofafinaldividend for the period which is end of the year, future developments has been implemented into English law not reflected in thesefinancial statements, and a description of the principal risks and requires companies to disclose of 15.8p per ordinary share totalling and uncertainties facing the Group.
non-financial information necessary to 12.9m, which, together with the interim The Groups financial instruments risk provide investors and other stakeholders dividend, represents 21.4p per ordinary management objectives and policy are with a better understanding of a share for the year.
discussed in the treasury risk management companys development, performance, policies section of the Performance and Subject toapproval at the Annual position andimpact of its activity.
General Meeting, thefinaldividend will The table below sets out where be paid on 28 June 2019 to members This Strategic report also includes the stakeholders can find information ontheregister at the close of business on Corporate and social responsibility report 31 May2019.
Shares will beex dividend inour Strategic report relating to on pages 28 to 39 which contains details on 30 May 2019. non-financial matters.
of the Groups employment practices and greenhouse gas emissions.
Information requirement Where to read more Page Business Model Our business model 11 14 Principal risks Risk management and principal risks 24 27 Non-financial KPIs Key performance indicators 21 Environment Employees Human rights Corporate and social responsibility report 28 39 Social matters } Anti-bribery and corruption Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this report, the Company is aware or has been notified of the following interests of 3% or more of the voting rights ofthe Company: Number of Percentage of ordinary shares issued share capital Nature of holding Aberdeen Standard Investments 9,794,609 12.00% Indirect Fidelity Management & Research 8,160,146 10.00% Indirect R. Heffer 3,796,500 4.65% Direct G. Heffer 3,009,497 3.69% Direct Santander Asset Management 2,593,737 3.18% Indirect Kames Capital 2,571,473 3.15% Indirect AXA Investment Managers 2,555,000 3.13% Indirect Canaccord Genuity Wealth Management 2,485,543 3.05% Indirect Additionally Directors interests in shares total 8.31% and details are given on page 65.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 45 rights over ordinary shares issued Directors and their interests Directors statement as to disclosure under employee share schemes are of information to auditors The Directors of the Company in office exercisable directly by the employees.
throughout 2018, together with their The Directors who were members of The Company is not aware of any biographical details, are set out on pages theBoard at the time of approving the agreements between shareholders that 42 and 43.
All the Directors served for Directors report are listed on pages 42 may result in restrictions on the transfer the whole of the year under review and 43.
Having made enquiries of fellow ofitsshares or on voting rights.
On 1 July 2018 Colin Directors and the Companys auditors, the Company may appoint or remove a Smith retired from the Board and Angus each of these Directors confirm that: Director by an ordinaryresolution of the Porter was appointed to the Board.
to the best of each Directors knowledge shareholders.
Additionally the Boardmay Details ofDirectors interests in shares are and belief, there is no information appoint a Director who must retire from provided in the Directors remuneration relevant to the audit of which the office at thefollowing Annual General report onpage 65.
Companys auditors are unaware: and Meeting and if eligible then standfor Directors are subject to reappointment each Director has taken all the steps a re-election.
at the Companys AGM following Director might reasonably be expected the Companys Articles may be the year in which they are appointed.
to have taken to be aware of any relevant amended by a special resolution In accordance with the Companys audit information and to establish that ofthe shareholders.
Articles of Association one third of the Companys auditors are aware the Directors have general powers the Boardissubject to re-election at ofthat information.
tomanage the business and affairs of each AGM.
Following accession to the Independent auditors the Company.
Additionally the following FTSE350 Index all Directors will in future specific authorities were passed as retire at each Annual General Meeting.
 LLP have resolutions at the Companys Annual expressed their willingness to continue Directors indemnities General Meeting held on 23 May 2018: inoffice and a resolution proposing their As permitted by law and its Articles of reappointment will be submitted at the Directors have authority to resolve Association the Company has in place Annual General Meeting.
that the Company shall purchase up appropriate directors and officers to 10% of its own shares subject to Annual General Meeting liabilityinsurance cover.
The Notice convening the Annual General Political donations Directors have authority, within Meeting can be found in the separate limits, to exercise the powersof the No donations for political purposes were Notice of Annual General Meeting Company to allot shares and limited made during the year 2017: nil.
accompanying this Annual report and authorityto disapply shareholder financial statements, and can also be Share capital and control pre-emption rights.
found on the Companys website at The following information is given Both these authorities expire on the earlier www.
pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies of the date of 23 August 2019 or the next Act 2006: By order of the Board Annual General Meeting at which renewal the Company has one class of of these authorities will be sought.
Neil George share being ordinary shares of 10p Company Secretary the Company has significant long term each whichhave no special rights.
26 March 2019 supply agreements with customers The holders of ordinary shares rank which the customer may terminate equally and are entitled to receive in the event that ownership of the dividends and return of capital as Company, following a takeover, passes declared and to vote at general to a third party which is not reasonably meetings.
With minor exceptions, acceptable to that customer.
There are there are no restrictions on transfers no agreements between the Company ofordinary shares.
and its Directors or employees providing there are no restrictions on voting rights for compensation for loss of office or of ordinary shares.
employment that occurs because of atakeover bid.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
