42 Governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Robert Watson obe Philip Heffer Nigel Majewski Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Robert joined Hilton as Chief Executive Philip joined Hilton at its inception in Nigel was appointed CFO of Hilton in2002 and on 1 July 2018 he transitioned 1994, as Managing Director of the in 2006following 11 years in senior to Executive Chairman.
He has overseen Groups UKsubsidiary and since 2012 financeroles with PepsiCo.
Prior to that the successful growth of the Group to has servedas Hiltons Chief Operating Nigel gained extensive meat industry date.
Prior to Hilton, he worked for the Officer.
On 1 July 2018 he was promoted experience in senior finance roles Foyle Food Group, based in Northern to Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to Hilton, with Bernard Matthews plc and has Ireland of which he was a founder in 1977.
Philip held senior positions within the also worked for Royal Dutch Shell and Robert was previously a board member RWM Food Group.
He is a qualified Chartered of the Livestock Meat Commission and College and became an associate member Accountant and has a first class honours Food For Britain.
Robert is Chairman of of the Institute of Meat in 1984. degree in accountancy.
Nigel is Chairman theNomination Committee.
of the Risk Management Committee.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 43 Non-Executive Directors John Worby Non-Executive Director John joined Hilton in 2016 and is a Chartered Accountant with awealth of experience in public companies and the food sector.
He was Group Finance Director at Genus plc retiring in 2013 andpreviously was Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman of Uniq plc.
John currently holds Non-Executive Directorships at Carrs Group plc and formerly was a Non-Executive Director at Cranswick plc, Fidessa Group plc and Connect Group plc.
He is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
John is Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the SeniorIndependent Director.
Christine Cross Angus Porter appointed 1 July 2018 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Christine joined Hilton in 2016 and was originally a food Angus joined Hilton in 2018 and has extensive knowledge and scientistbefore devoting the 14 years to 2003 with Tesco experience in public companies and the food and retail sectors in senior roles focusing on own brand, non-food and global with an MA in natural sciences and PhD from the University of sourcing.
She has since worked with a wide range of food and Cambridge.
He has held numerous executive and non-executive non-food retail and consumer businesses and currently holds roles across a range of industry sectors including Mars, BT, Non-Executive Directorships with Coca-Cola European Partners AbbeyNational and WPP.
Angus is currently Non-Executive plc, Sonae SGPS SA Portugal and several private companies.
Chairman at McColls Retail Group plc and Co-Chairman of Former Non-Executive Director positions were held with DirectWines Ltd and was formerly Chief Executive of the Next plc, Woolworths Limited Australia, Brambles Limited Professional Cricketers Association, Non-Executive Director Australia andKathmandu Holdings Limited New Zealand.
andSenior Independent Director of Punch Taverns plc and Christine isChair of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director of TDC A S Denmark.
John Worby, Christine Cross and Neil George Angus Porter are all members Company Secretary of the Remuneration, Audit and Neil joined Hilton in 2007 and is a Nomination Committees.
John Worby, Christine Cross and Angus Porter are considered to be independent.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
