Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 39 In our own factories we are implementing Anti-bribery and corruption Community training programmes in the UK using Hilton has a zero tolerance approach to materials provided by Stronger Together, bribery and corruption including the giving Supporting our local communities an initiative supporting fair recruitment or receiving of bribes for any purpose.
processes and to help identify victims As part of our commitments to wellbeing Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption ofpeople trafficking.
and sustainability, we continue to support policy contains our commitment to the communities and local charities where conducting business in an honest way Hilton are A B members of SEDEX which we operate.
We give food donations to and explains how any suspicious activity is a collaborative platform for confidential local charities, sponsor sporting events, can be reported.
A whistle-blowing policy sharing of responsible sourcing data and provide work experience for local continues to operate so that staff can in and social compliance audits by our secondary schools and internships for confidence raise any concerns about any supply chains.
SEDEX helps us to assess graduates.
During 2018, Hilton made actual or potential improprieties in relation supplier performance around labour charitable donations amounting to to matters of financial reporting or any rights, health & safety, the environment, 97,256 2017: 60,000. other aspect of our businesses.
and business ethics and to drive continuous improvement.
The Hilton Food Group Charitable Modern slavery Foundation promoted our second We will be carrying out our first human We aim to ensure that the way we run charitable golf day during the year rights impact assessment in a key supply ourbusiness prevents and deters any form raisingfunds of 82,000 for East Anglias chain in 2019 in cooperation with key of modern slavery and human trafficking Childrens Hospices and The Cure suppliers and an international human from occurring anywhere in our business Parkinsons Trust.
This is an approach that goes and supply chain.
Hilton is dedicated to beyond the first tier of supply right back The Group seeks to be a good neighbour maintaining a fair and ethical workplace tothe suppliers of feed ingredients.
We are committed to for all of our staff, and prohibits the use social responsibility and believe that the of all forms of forced labour and human Trading relationships with partners success of our businesses will reflect the trafficking.
We have introduced a Modern and suppliers quality of the relationships we build with Slavery Policy within the Group to ensure Strong and fair long term relationships with our communities and legitimate public that slavery and human trafficking is not partners and suppliers are very important taking place in any part of our business interest groups.
As an example in Denmark for Hilton.
The Groups approach to orour supply chains.
we have started a cooperation with Blue corporate social responsibility is reflected Cross to supply our surplus meat products We work to identify, assess and monitor in the way we behave with our suppliers to a local home for vulnerable people and any potential areas of risk in relation to our which is open, consistent and honest.
business and supply chains, and carry out In the UK the Group follows the Better regular quality audits of our meat suppliers.
Payment Practice Code which requires a Approval of We also train relevant employees in company to agree the terms of payment thesteps to be taken in the event of with its suppliers, to ensure its suppliers Strategic report anymodern slavery specific concerns.
are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
The Group policy is also to apply Tax strategy Pages 6 to 39 of this Annual report the requirements of the Code in each Hilton is committed to paying the right comprises a Strategic report which ofits subsidiaries.
amount of tax at the right time and has been drawn up and presented in Ethical standards complying with all relevant laws and accordance with applicable English regulations.
With a low risk appetite we Hilton is committed to integrity.
company law, in particular Chapter 4A of have a simple corporate structure based Ethical standards are very important the Companies Act 2006, and the liabilities around our commercial operations.
in relation to the way we conduct our of directors in connection with this report We do not engage in planning schemes businesses and all the Groups employees shall be subject to the limitations and or arrangements that could be considered are expected to behave ethically in their restrictions provided by such law.
aggressive or artificial in nature.
Tax forms work and adhere to the Groups ethical It should be noted that the Strategic part of Hiltons policy whereby risks are standards.
As an international group of reporthas been prepared for the assessed and appropriately managed.
companies we are fully aware of the Groupasa whole, and therefore broad spread of our responsibilities in all givesgreater emphasis to the the countries in which we operate from Companyand its subsidiaries protecting the environment to safeguarding whenviewedas a composite whole.
the health and safety of our employees, respecting human rights, ensuring honesty, Approved by order of the Board integrity and fairness in all our business of Directors dealings and operating our businesses Neil George inasafe and responsible manner.
Company Secretary 26 March 2019 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 40 Governance Governance Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 41 Board of Directors 42 Directors report 44 Corporate governance statement 46 Report of the AuditCommittee 49 Report of the NominationCommittee 51 Directors remuneration report 52 Directors remuneration policy 55 Annual report on remuneration 62 Statements of  69 Independent auditorsreport 70 For more information visit: www.
com Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
