28 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report Highlights Our commitments UK Plastics Pact Deforestation Courtauld 2025 Founding member of the UK Plastics We are committed to sourcing responsible We have signed up to Courtauld 2025, Pact, working with partners in order to be soy through the UK Round Table on a voluntary commitment to reduce industry leading in sustainable packaging.
We also signed the the resources required to produce statement of support to the Cerrado food in the UK by 20% by 2025, as manifesto through FAIRR.
well as reducing food waste by 20% by 2025.
We will achieve this through advanced energy monitoring software and implementing anISO 50001 Animal Welfare Food Waste Reduction certified energy management system.
Hilton are the highest new processor We published UK food waste data for the This gives us continuous monitoring on entrant, ranking in tier 3 in the first time as part of our commitment to the effectiveness of measures to reduce global welfare benchmark in 2018.
Champions 12.3, the global initiative to energy consumption and water usage.
We are highlighted in the report halve food waste by 2030 in support of foroursupplier engagement.
Champions 12.3 We have signed up as a Friend of Champions 12.3, an initiative to deliver the United Nations Sustainable Development Carbon Disclosure Project Seafood Ethical Action Alliance Goal 12.3 to halve our foodwaste Our CDP Score improved in 2017.
Founding member and first chair of by 50% by 2030.
Case studies from We are introducing advanced energy theUKSeafood Ethical Action Alliance.
our UK factories are featured on the management systems.
Our facility in Co-funded with Tesco development Tesco website.
Innovation in packaging Ireland reduced energy intensity by 28%, of the SEDEX Fishing Vessel materials and process controls is already achieved certification to ISO 50001, Assessment Module.
delivering waste reduction across our andisutilising100% renewable electricity.
UK Plastics Pact Cool Farm Alliance North Atlantic Cod By 2025, the UK Plastics Pact will Hilton conducted farm trials of the Founding partner, together with transform the UK plastic packaging sector newCool Farm Alliance tool that Greenpeace, in the award winning by meeting four world-leading targets for assessesthe greenhouse gas and IndustryGroup Agreement to Cod fishery plastic packaging.
environmental impacts of beef farms.
in the Northern Part of North-EastAtlantic.
Eliminate problematic or unnecessary We are helping develop more accurate This protects vulnerable areas of the Arctic single use packaging through redesign, impact measures, and this resulted seabed from trawling as theice recedes.
innovation or alternative re-use inanaward from Tesco.
100% of plastics packaging to be reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025 3.
70% of plastics packaging effectively recycled or composted by 2025 4.
30% average recycled content acrossallplastics packaging by 2025 UK Soy Roundtable on Sustainable Soya We are committed to sourcing soya that is legal and cultivated in a way that protects against conversion of forests and valuable native vegetation, and achieving meaningful and demonstrable progress towards this goal by 2020.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 29 The descriptions of our actions and the This level of attention is a valuable part of Introduction associated declarations contained within our partnership with our retail customers this Corporate and social responsibility and gives consumers confidence that Hilton recognises the social, ethical report are structured as far as possible Hilton can consistently meet their and environmental responsibilities inaccordance with the recommendations expectations.
All of our sites received the associated with being the first choice from the Task Force on Climate-Related highest levels of third party and customer partner for our retail customers.
Our total Financial Disclosures, to provide decisionaudit results in 2018. partnership approach and commitment useful information toinvestors and others.
We maintain strong links with academia to non-negotiable ethics is framing the and technological advances, working development of our global CSR strategy.
Quality and Food Safety alongside Campden BRI, Danish Meat The Group is committed to working in Research Institute and Teagasc Ireland an ethical, open and honest manner to Hilton is committed to working in an and attending the annual International produce products of the highest quality, ethical, open and honest manner to Conference of Meat Science and responsibly and sustainably.
Our reporting produce products of the highest food Technology.
We are also members of will demonstrate that we are incorporating safety and quality.
This is underpinned a number of trade associations such as sustainability into how we do business, byour Group quality policy which outlines British Meat Processors Association, going well beyond disclosure.
our commitment across the Group to: Foodand Drink Federation and Seafish.
Our vision is to deliver to consumers food safety, product quality, legality Product standards a choice of quality sustainable and and integrity: accessible proteins and drive innovation The quality of the raw materials used in the achievement of customer and best practice in our supply chains ourproducts contributes significantly to satisfaction by adherence to product and factories.
the achievement of consistent finished specifications and service requirements: product quality.
We work closely with our Hilton is informed by the scientific reports adequate resources in the pursuit suppliers to set clear specifications for the that give a compelling challenge to the of continuous improvement for our products they supply.
Monitoring incoming global food industry to work together products, processes and our people: and raw material quality combined with close to ensure a sustainable food system for control of the processes we follow in our a programme to develop a food the future.
We understand that no single manufacturing operations ensure we are safety culture.
company can tackle these challenges able to consistently meet the best in class alone.
We recognise our responsibilities Our commitment to food safety and specifications our retail partners set for to measure and reduce the impacts quality combined with our first-class our products.
of our own operations, our supply manufacturing facilities and our customer chains, and our products by a long term Supply chain integrity and traceability focus makes us the first choice for our collaborative effort.
Hilton strives, in partnership with our retail customers, to successfully deliver safe, Our social commitment is to look after Retail packing at Hilton consistently high quality, convenient and thewellbeing of our people and to assess, We are proud of our modern specialised ready to use products that ensure the and where necessary help improve, the processing and packing facilities which highest level of consumer satisfaction.
wellbeing of people in our supply chains use state of the art production equipment, Our products are governed by EU and collaboratively with our suppliers.
including a high degree of automation and international legislation and food safety The Board has general oversight for CSR use of robotic equipment which minimises standards throughout the supply chain.
activities, along with corresponding risks handling.
This combined with our high Additionally our retail partners, who and opportunities.
The CEO has overall standards of hygiene and our temperature support the Global Food Safety Initiative, responsibility for the Groups operations, controls ensure we meet our customers demand the best animal welfare standards, which inherently includes the sustainability expectations for quality throughout the food factory standards and quality systems of our business.
The Board is updated products shelf life.
to enhance their levels of brand integrity.
onthe CSR agenda and progress towards Our well trained production operatives our own, and our customers targets, at are responsible for the quality of our retail least every six months.
partners products and they are supported The Executive Leadership Team ELT is by highly qualified and experienced the operational tier immediately below the quality assurance and technical teams Board and reports into the CEO.
Each of our sites undergo responsible for ensuring that the business independent third party accreditation strategy considers climate related risks to a GFSI Global Food Safety Initiative and mitigation.
The Chief Quality and recognised certification scheme.
CSROfficer is responsible for the Group Our retailcustomers make frequent visits CSR strategy within the ELT.
Hilton is to our sites, which in some cases includes enacting a strategy to address climate unannounced audits and visits as part related risks as described on page 33. oftheir own surveillance.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 30 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report continued We partner with the best suppliers Hilton continually develops and refines It is necessary that all parties in the supply that share our absolute commitment to testing methods, data collection and chain work together collaboratively to quality, food safety, welfare of people, reporting.
Samples collected from raw ensure high welfare standards for animals animal welfare and sustainability.
We are material deliveries are assessed for from breeding and rearing to transportation committed to ensuring the integrity and compliance to microbiological standards and slaughter.
This is detailed in our traceability of the raw materials we use and compliance to agreed quality animal welfare policy which contains in our products, this includes the meat, specifications including increasing use of thefollowing principles: fish, ingredients and packaging.
Results are used to assess 1.
All applicable laws and legislative developed our own supplier standards for the performance of suppliers and achieve requirements are met, and where each raw material group which clearly state continuous improvement.
possible slaughter facilities and farms the standards we expect our suppliers We are members of the Food Industry are certified to independent farm to operate to.
Every meat supplier is Intelligence Network where we compile assurance schemes audited by our audit team at least every industry wide compliance statistics and 2.
Antibiotics are used as little as two years.
For ingredients and packaging, share intelligence on suspected food fraud.
possible without compromising animal the audit frequency is determined by risk welfare, through better site hygiene, assessment which looks at a combination husbandry, biosecurity and other of raw material and supply chain threat preventative measures and vulnerability, horizon scanning and 3.
All animals and farmed fish are supplier history.
We use this information effectively stunned prior to slaughter to determine whether we will audit the 4.
The avoidance of routine procedures supplier ourselves or approve them based such as tail docking and the use of on independent third party audit such as suitable pain relief where they are used Animal welfare the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety.
The avoidance of close confinement At Hilton, animal welfare is central to We have full traceability back to the and, where appropriate to our values and integral to our business, farms and fishing vessels that supply the species, the promotion to enable us to meet our customers the slaughter operations and primary ofenvironmental enrichment expectations for high quality, sustainably processing factories in our supply chains.
Travel times are kept to a minimum reared livestock and farmed fish.
We also buy directly from many fishing and for livestock are not greater than Together with our retailer partners, vessels that freeze their catch at sea eight hours suppliers and farmers we are committed giving us direct relationships with the 7.
No animals farmed fish are from cloned to the development and implementation major fishing quota owners.
Our supplier stock or subject to genetic engineering of high welfare standards for animals approval process gives us full transparency 8.
No use of growth promoting and farmed fish across our global supply on the safety, quality, traceability and substances or hormones chains, from breeding and rearing to provenance of the raw materials we use.
The use of welfare outcome measures transportation and slaughter.
As a global This ensures our product labels correctly to monitor standards objectively, and to business, we aim to share learnings across describe the provenance of the product, use targets and benchmarking to drive the different markets in which we operate, including its species and country of origin best practice across the countries from using our influence to drive progressive so that consumers can have trust in the which we source improvements in animal welfare that meet products we produce.
We are committed to publicly reporting our progress and regularly review our policy in Our approach is based on the Five a process of continual improvement based Freedoms of the Farm Animal Welfare on our own learnings, the future needs of Council FAWC : our customers, the latest developments 1.
Freedom from hunger and thirst in scientific research and our ongoing 2.
Freedom from discomfort engagement with experts in the field 3.
Freedom from pain, injury or disease including NGOs.
Freedom to express normal behaviour The policy is enacted via purchasing from 5.
Freedom from fear and distress farm assurance certified sites, audits of abattoir and fish slaughter standards, and sample farm audits by either our own team or specialist welfare auditors.
Hilton are also directly engaging to continuously improve welfare standards in collaboration with our suppliers.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 31 We have established partnerships with Partnerships for growth Hiltons supplier engagement key suppliers whose core capability is the We forge partnerships across all aspects in animal welfare development of innovative ingredients.
of our supply chain to enable us to Hilton works with supply chain By working closely in partnership with strengthen our position as one of the partners to understand where further our suppliers we can combine our leading global business to business improvements can be made on animal extensive, indepth understanding of food food companies.
This includes: production on an industrial scale with their has always been building strong and expertise to develop a delicious portfolio Facilitating the provision of fish productive partnerships with our retail of innovative products designed to match welfare training by European experts customers in each geographical zone consumer expectations.
to fish farmers in Turkey and Vietnam.
we are active in to supply high quality Sharing the findings from an audit products at the right price to meet their In parallel to our ingredient partnerships of a salmon slaughter plant in demands.
However, in an ever-changing we also realise the value of building southern Norway, which revealed business environment, the requirements stronger alliances with key suppliers of an opportunity to improve the flow of a true partnership go beyond the supply the processing equipment that is required of salmon into the entrance of the and demand approach.
Our focus is to to deliver the large volumes of products electrical stunner to ensure a head provide a unique, unrivalled service to our that leave our manufacturing sites every first alignment and thus a more customers to support their market growth day.
Technology is changing at an ever effective stun.
In Norway, the actions aspirations.
We work closely with each increasing rate across the food industry agreed from a salmon slaughter of our customers to identify both global resulting in new and exciting equipment audit resulted in the improved and local market trends which will help entering the market which can improve segregation of lumpfish which help us create the next generation of products the efficiency of operations and deliver clean sea lice from salmon during that will meet the everyday needs of their new and innovative products whilst live grading, to ensure both species consumers.
We have established three continuing to enhance the stability and arestunned correctly.
culinary innovation centres fully equipped security of the products offered to the with state of the art culinary equipment consumer.
Rather than waiting for new Working collaboratively with Tesco and staffed by some of the leading technologies to arrive on the market we and other leading protein producers industry chefs and food technologists.
are working in close partnership with as members of Tesco Producer The ambience of our culinary innovation key equipment suppliers to develop Groups to assist in developing centres has been designed to create equipment that specifically meets the their welfare and environmental anopen and stimulating environment needs of our operations.
this, we are creating a number of Participating in UK food industry product focused centres of excellence innovative on Antimicrobial, which There is nothing like good food to bring which are the custodians of our internal is looking at the livestock industrys people together so it is in our culinary technology know-how where we focus use of antibiotics for the treatment innovation centres that we discuss and development programmes carried out and prevention of disease and the share concepts with our customers.
in conjunction with our key partners.
actions that can be taken to reduce Cooking, tasting and then making those As well as being technology custodians usage and contribute towards a all-important final tweaks to create the the centres of excellence are responsible reduction in the growth in human perfect concept.
Our skilled chefs and for the rapid roll out of successful antibiotic resistance.
technologists then set to work on the innovations and developments across scale-up process taking the concepts Contributing to the development our businesses to ensure we consistently from the kitchen pan to industrial products and improvement of global welfare deliver operational excellence at each that can be consistently produced, on an standards, for example providing ofourmanufacturing sites.
industrial scale, maintaining organoleptic expert fish welfare input into the quality, product integrity and operational development of the fish welfare efficiency throughout the supply chain to standards within GlobalG.
A. P. meet all of our customers expectations.
With these facilities we deliver exciting, Working with its farmed salmon innovative and delicious product range suppliers in Norway to support extensions, seasonal product ranges and improvements in sea lice prevention.
market leading innovative new products.
Investing in the exploration of farming technology innovations including closed containment systems and offshore salmon farming.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 32 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report continued UK Roundtable on Sustainable Awards and innovation Soya a pre-competitive forum for Hilton takes great pride in its products and companies and industry associations SUSTAINABLE ETHICAL AUTHENTIC we are delighted when the quality and to work together, with the support of innovation of these products is recognised.
Our seafood CSR programme, government, towards a sustainable During 2018 we received a number of QualityNaturally, has three pillars: soyasupply chain for the UK.
Hilton have national food and taste awards.
conducted on farm surveys of soya use Sustainability growth from In the UK we won Bronze with the in feed and therefore estimated our total responsible aquaculture and ensuring TescoFinest Dry Aged Ribeye Steak.
Certification credits will there are enough fish in the sea for The Saucy Fish Co. s Cook from Frozen be purchased equivalent to this volume.
future generations: Herb Crusted Salmon with Lemon Butter The next step is to engage withthe Ethics respecting people who work Sauce came second in the Best Protein major feed producers and farming in our supply chains and factories and category of Coach Magazines Healthy organisations to purchase certified working to safeguard good welfare Food & Drinks Award.
and working conditions: and European Roundtable for Beef In Ireland we won a number of awards Authenticity transparency and trust Sustainability where we agree with themost notable being Gold at the in our supply chain to assure to our measures and objectives with the aim World Steak Challenge for the Tesco customers that we sell what it says of recognition in the beef value chain for Finest Irish Angus Beef Fillet Steak and the on the label.
delivering measurable positive impacts product also won two stars at the Great and continuous improvement towards Taste Awards and was a winner at the Irish key sustainability priorities.
Tesco Finest West Supporting eco-labelling of seafood Cork Dry Aged Ribeye won awards at the UK Cattle Sustainability Working Group Wild capture fisheries Quality Food Awards, Bronze at the World to deliver the ERBS objectives in the Steak Challenge and three Golden Stars UK.
Hilton are testing and helping to Where possible wild catch species are at the ITQI Awards.
Several other awards further develop the Cool Farm Tool for independently certified to the Marine were achieved in Ireland at the Great Taste beef, on rearing farms together with Stewardship Councils standard for a Awards, Blas na hEireann, Free From our suppliers.
well managed and sustainable fishery.
Awards, World Steak Challenge and ITQI Where fisheries are not yet certified WRAP Beef working group across anumber of product categories we actively engage in and help fund  of including roasting joints, steaks, sausages the fishery improvement projects sustainable production indicators and rashers.
and collaboration in sustainability focused innovation.
Swedens minced meat was the winner in Swedens leading and largest evening Sustainable Seafood Coalition we paper Aftonbladet and our Portuguese were the first members and helped Aquaculture Beef Burgers won Product of the Year towrite the industry codes that define All of our aquaculture species are withour customer.
independently certified to either We are founder members of the two GlobalG.
A. P. BAP, or the Aquaculture Sustainability UK Common Language and Seafood Stewardship Councils standards Ethics Common Language Groups for forresponsibly farmed seafood.
Sustainability initiatives These convene industry, retailers, in supply chains government, NGOs and scientists to Hilton Food Group is engaged in inform and address the issues in the collaborative action to address the ocean, land based aquaculture, and sustainability challenges and opportunities We are members of several fishery theirsupply chains.
that we have identified together with improvement projects aimed at We chair the Seafood Ethical Action our suppliers and customers.
Our global achieving MSC certification, including Alliance a coalition of retailers and CSRprogramme will integrate existing nephrops scampi, lemon sole, and processors dedicated to improving the work streams on meat and seafood.
lives of the workers in our collective We are on the main board and technical Hilton Food Group actively participates supply chains.
committee of the global Responsible inthe following collaborative initiatives: We chair the Seafood Industry Alliance Fishing Scheme.
UK Food Industry Initiative on the voice of the industry to the We are members of the aquaculture Antimicrobials measuring and UK government.
A. P. addressing the root causes of We helped negotiate and manage the antimicrobial usage in animals.
Barents Sea Agreement a voluntary agreement to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems in the far North Atlantic, together with Greenpeace.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 33 Environment Climate related risk identification and mitigation The Group takes all practicable steps to manage carefully the impact on the natural We are committed to assessing and environment of our own operations.
continuously reducing the impacts of We comply with regulations, identify our operations.
This includes reducing climate related risks, and we plan to our waste, reusing or recycling where set Science Based Targets to ensure practicable, and exploring how we can our efforts are backed by science and improve biodiversity around our sites.
recognised as sufficiently ambitious to Climate related issues are integrated deliver our contribution to society wide into multi-disciplinary Company wide climate change mitigation.
risk identification, assessment, and Regulatory compliance management processes.
We consider short term to be 0-1 years, medium term The Group is in full compliance with 1-5 years and long term 5-50years.
all environmental regulations, permits Our assessment shows climate related and consent limits which apply to each risks will impact in the medium and of its packing plants in each country of long term.
operation and views such compliance as a high priority, looking to make The Group operates a Risk Management continuing improvements with respect Committee to identify risks, which are to the environment in all its operations compiled into a risk register.
The size and whilst ensuring that we manage our relevance of these risks are evaluated on environmental performance in accordance the basis of the size of impact they would with evolving legal and regulatory have on volume produced and the potential requirements and international standards.
for shareholder or customer concern.
If these risks were to pose a greater than Anticipated regulatory compliance is also 1% reduction in profits, they would be taken into account.
Future impactors considered as substantive.
include, but are not limited to, evolving packaging and environmental tax We also utilise our customers processes systems in the countries that we operate.
for continually identifying climate For example the UK is aiming to reform related risks by maintaining constant packaging tax in 2022 for higher tax communication between our mutual rates for packaging materials with less CSRteams.
Please review the Risk than 30% recycled content, which could management section on pages 24-27 impactour business.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 34 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report continued Relevant climate related risk types Current Full legal compliance to regulation forms the basis of our systems and responsibilities across all of our business regulation activities.
We take this seriously as there is a possibility of financial and reputational impact of not complying withlegislation related toclimate impacts.
Emerging We are a progressive and strategic business and therefore it is important to consider the changing landscapes regulation ofregulation in the countries that we operate.
Regulation can change quickly with regards to sustainability soitisessentialto monitor emerging regulation and where appropriate engage in its development.
Technology Technology forms much of the foundation of control and efficiency of our operations.
Risk mitigation is often possiblebyinvestment in technology and we consider the risks and impacts from failure of systems and processes.
Market The retail partners that we supply can often dictate the direction and speed of change towards climate related objectivesfortheir products.
Therefore it is important that we include market forces in our risk assessments.
Costsassociated with inputs energy water and outputs waste will also continue to fluctuate in the market.
Reputation Inherently important for a public company with multiple customers, employees and investors.
Our reputation is as aresponsible supplier focused on improving the sustainability of our supply chains with trusted supply chain partners.
Wetake our responsibility for the reputation of these supply chains very seriously.
Customer demand for products couldalso be affected by climate related reputational issues which could indirectly affect our business.
Acute We assess the liability to extreme weather events such as flooding.
It is imperative that we assess and monitor the physical evolution of these acute physical risks to our direct operations, and upward through our supply chain.
Using a diverse number of suppliers mitigates our inherent acute physical risk.
Chronic These include the rise in average temperatures and sea levels.
Climate changes may also affect supply chain physical productivity resulting in increased costs and add complexity to the supply chain.
Upstream If our supply base was subject to climate risks this would have an impact on the availability, and quality of our fresh products.
It is important for Hilton to monitor potential impacts from climate change through our supply chain to ensure weuphold our reputation for quality and service.
Downstream We collaborate in mitigation of risks with our retail partners.
This process has formed much of the basis of our  initiatives and commitments.
Therefore understanding possible climate related risks downstream indistribution and customer choice of products is vital for our Company.
Understanding the impact on consumer choicesin the food they consume is important to guide the future development of food products and supply chains.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 35 How the identified risks and opportunities have impacted our business Products Not yet impacted We have not seen a clear indication of reduced consumer demand on a broad spectrum.
and services Supply Not yet impacted We have not encountered recent, substantive and measurable effects on our supply chain.
chain and or value chain Adaptation Impacted Some increased capital investment costs to increase energy efficiency.
and mitigation activities Investment Not yet impacted We cannot attribute this solely to climate related influences in our business.
in R&D Operations Impacted We have realised reduced energy usage in certain sites and processes.
How the identified risks and opportunities have factored into our financial planning process Revenues Impacted in line with Through our cost plus agreements with our customers changes in operating costs operating costs feed into revenues.
We are dedicating more resources to CSR which has the potential .
Operating Impacted Certain examples of reduced energy costs due to efficiencies and technology such as costs LEDlighting, the latest machinery and carbon management software.
Increased costs maycome, for example, from higher compliance costs or insurance premiums in the future.
Capital Impacted Specification of equipment that Hilton purchases and the design of any new factories will expenditures haveregard to the latest climate related risks and opportunities where Hilton strives to be capital efficient with as low an impact on the planet as possible.
allocation Acquisitions Not yet impacted Climate related issues yet to be attributed to acquisitions and divestments.
Seachill, acquired and in2017, has a strong track record for driving sustainability through the fish supply chain.
divestments Access Impacted for some Increased internal funding for climate related innovation is available subject to normal to capital suppliers, facilities, commercial justifications.
orproduct lines Assets Impacted for some Future proofing our assets in terms of climate related issues is factored into the building suppliers, facilities, process for new and upgraded buildings.
orproduct lines Liabilities Not yet impacted Yet to calculate the financial planning process to liabilities with regards to the impact of climate related influences.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 36 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report continued Examples include: Hilton is introducing an Energy Carbon footprint Management System EnMS in and greenhouse gases The connection of salmon farms to compliance with ISO 50001, the first the mainland electricity supply in The Group has complied with all the siteto be certified was Ireland in 2018.
Norway that utilises fully renewable mandatory reporting requirements under electricity generation.
the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report Hilton is establishing Environmental and Directors reports Regulations 2013.
The use of water re-circulation Management Systems EMS systems The Groups scope 1 and scope 2 carbon technology in freshwater farms.
to appropriate standards at each site.
footprint has been calculated using a Whilst we are not committing to achieve The replacement of wild caught fish oils mixture of DEFRA and IEA emissions certification to ISO14001 at all sites the with cultured algal oils produced using factors.
An appropriate ratio to express systems are based on this framework, energy generated from by-products the Groups annual emissions in relation andthe EMS at the Portugal site ofsugar and corn crops.
to its activities by way of product volumes is certified.
At sea the catching vessels are using produced is given below.
more efficient engines and lower drag Water use is driven by the need to deliver We assess the climate related risks and fishing gear to reduce the energy the highest standards of hygiene and energy saving opportunities in our factories needed and to be more selective its inclusion in the processing systems and develop improvement plans for our site toeliminate unwanted by-catch.
Our water management control operations and process efficiency aimed systems include local monitoring of Tonnes of CO e 2 atmeeting our carbon reduction targets.
individual processes and optimising the 2018 2017 2016 use in hygiene, to use it efficiently and Our target is to reduce our scope1 Scope 1 9,450 3,987 4,069 responsibly.
Performance on water usage and scope 2 intensity in line with Scope 2 35,598 22,275 21,195 is shown below.
the Science Based Targets Initiative Total 45,048 26,262 25,264 3 Cm of water use per tonne of product SBTI requirements.
To this end we are submitting targets for approval by 2018 2.33 Tonnes of CO e per tonne of product 2 the SBTIbased on a 34% reduction in 2017 1.68 2018 0.13 intensityby 2030.
2016 1.65 2017 0.11 Hilton is not directly engaged in the 2016 0.11 The increase in 2018 is due to the first full breeding, growing and slaughtering of year of accounting for Seachill water usage animals, so the proportion of the total I ncreases in 2018 are due to the first full along with the addition of Portuguese and GHG footprint of retail meat and fish which year of accounting for Seachills emissions, Australian joint ventures.
Fish processing can be influenced directly by the Groups along with the addition of Portuguese and isinherently more water intensive.
packing activities is very small.
We are Australian joint ventures.
The majority of however using our influence to engage in Food waste our pre-established sites have reduced industry wide collaboration to help address their CO e per tonne produced from 2017.
2 Hilton Food Group have committed climate related risks and opportunities in globally as a Friend of Champions 12.3, our supply chains in partnership with our Energy usage aninitiative dedicated to accelerating key suppliers and retail customers.
We are Our processing and packing operations progress towards achieving the UN committed to supporting our customers consume electricity, gas, water and Sustainable Development Target 12.3 supply chain target to reduce processing industrial gases at all our sites and our by 2030.
This target aims to halve per and agricultural emissions.
management teams work to identify areas capita global food waste at the retail and for further efficiency gains in terms of To address the greenhouse gas impacts consumer level, and reduce food losses energy usage.
The Group invests heavily from beef farming we have joined the along production and supply chains in measuring and reducing energy usage European Roundtable on Sustainable by 2030.
We published case studies within our state of the art high speed Beef and we are carrying out on farm highlighting the progress we are making packing facilities which progressively measurements in the UK to help develop toachieve this target in the UK on the reduce energy costs per unit packed.
the measurement tools needed to quantify Tesco website in 2018.
Over time the development of packing the impacts of changes in practices and Our commitment will be achieved by technology means that any given volume feed formulations.
addressing the root causes of food loss of meat can be packed with fewer high Our seafood supply chain partners are and waste, while continuing to meet speed lines.
investing in more efficient catching and stringent standards for quality and We are introducing advanced farming operations that can also withstand presentation.
We are monitoring and sensors andsoftware across the the impacts of extremes in weather and centrally reporting food waste to understand Group to manageenergy and water longer term climate impacts.
our progress towards our targets.
The food usage in realtime and demonstrate yield comparing the weight of raw material the improvements made by better with that incorporated in finished products management, investment in efficiency is monitored continuously across the entire andprocess andpackaging innovation.
product range at every Hilton site.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Hilton are also working with our The second work stream is focusing on the accidents and the number of working days retailpartners to ensure that waste use of recycled plastic in product trays that lost through injury, together with short and is minimisedboth in store and in the we purchase.
This also uses significantly long term sickness levels.
Key statistics home, by maximising the available shelf lower energy consumption in their are as follows: life andoffering consumers a choice manufacture.
Finally we are continuously Recorded accidents ofsingleand multi-serving pack sizes.
setting the industry standard for lighter per product trays which require less plastic.
Average 100,000 Sickness Sustainable packaging number of Serious hours rate These trays are jointly developed and employees accidents worked % Our ultimate goal is to have fully recyclable tested with our key packaging suppliers to and widely recycled packaging containing 2018 4,127 68 5.3 3.3% ensure that although lighter they are still ahigh proportion of recycled material, robust enough to maintain the required 2017 3,545 40 4.5 4.8% which has the lowest possible carbon functionality and stability attributes.
This applies to all formats and types of packaging.
Our people Workplace Through the extensive use of state of At Hilton we believe in a very simple the art packaging including skin pack equation which is that happy people at Health and safety technology our products benefit from an work results in happy customers and One of Hiltons top priorities is to extended shelf life thereby providing food happy customers ensure our future achievecontinual improvements in health safety security and reduced food waste.
This is why we have in and safety.
The Group requires all its place a people strategy that sustains and Hilton understands the sustainability subsidiaries to achieve high health and builds colleague engagement and ensues goals of our customers and we are closely safety standards within their individual that Hilton continues to be an attractive aligned with them in our joint desire to operations.
This strategy and plan has three minimise the environmental impact of our regular formal health and safety reviews.
simple thoughts at its heart: packaging.
Whilst the packaging formats Managers and employees review policies, The need to prepare for the future used for our products are selected by our processes and procedures in order to customers we bring expert advice and ensure that risks are properly assessed, Creating engagement and advocacy best practice to the selection process.
with appropriate actions taken in order to Sustaining a high performance culture protect the safety of employees.
At Board We ensure that when we develop new Preparing for the future level Philip Heffer, Chief Executive Officer, packaging we design for recyclability.
is responsible for health and safety and Attracting and developing the kind of talent Every decision that we make considers environmental matters across the Group.
we will need in the future, whilst also the environmental impact that the new developing existing colleagues to their packaging will have, thereby ensuring We monitor and review all near misses, full potential is vital.
We are an inclusive that all decisions made are working in incidents and accidents in the workplace business.
All our people are talented, and alignment with our goals.
so that we can take appropriate action we ensure that we give equal access to to improve working conditions whilst We have strong partnerships with our all opportunities.
remaining focused on reducing both key suppliers of packaging materials the absolute number of accidents To support our aspiration a new learning and work together closely as part of our and the number of serious accidents.
and development blueprint has been sustainability agenda.
We are conscious of Formal reporting procedures are in place developed which paints a picture of our the potential impact the use of plastic has at every site so that the Group can monitor ambition for learning and development on the environment.
We are working with safety performance at a local level.
within Hilton and provides a framework our key suppliers in three work streams.
There is a full time safety officer ateach showing how we will support our people Firstly we are striving to maximise the site who monitors the key measures during their career lifecycle.
use of recyclable trays across the Group for safety performance which include and have started to move to the use the number of serious and non-serious of recyclable trays in our production.
Directors Senior managers Employees 1 11 1.840 2.878 39 5 Male Female Male Female Male Female Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 38 Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility report continued Sustaining a high performance culture Sustaining a high performance culture in which excellence is appropriately defined and rewarded is critical and even more so as Hilton experiences further growth.
A percentage of our senior leaders short term incentive payment is linked to the delivery of their personal objectives.
This is because we focus on ensuring that we reward the how as well as the what.
Because, at Hilton, we believe the way we behave when we deliver is just as important as what we deliver.
A particular focus of our leaders objectives is one team and collaboration.
This focus ensures we truly deliver on our principle ofnetworked people & knowledge.
We have developed a total reward approach and commenced a review of roles to develop a Group wide approach to grading our managerial and support positions.
In 2019 we will finalise our approach to total reward and grading.
For some time we have offered all Built on a common leadership competency Creating engagement and advocacy colleagues the opportunity to participate framework, we have in place succession Making sure that our people are genuine ina Sharesave scheme.
This enables those and capability management approaches advocates for Hilton and that they feel who choose to participate the chance to that provide a clear picture of succession connected and committed to the business further gain from the success of Hilton, to our most senior roles and bespoke is essential.
creating an even better understanding programmes to support the development ofcompany performance and supporting This year we launched a number of of high potential colleagues.
Our approach our high performance culture.
new initiatives including our first annual supports diversity and inclusion by leadership conference and operating ensuring that the capability of all leaders is The Group, in common with most company town halls.
Designed to reviewed and conclusions regarding future commercial undertakings, utilises external ensure our colleagues are fully engaged potential stem from high quality, evidence consultants, but, as their services could and understand their contribution in based conversations incorporating the be contracted for with other similar delivering and supporting our purpose, consistent criteria established through the parties, there are, in the opinion of the ambition, principles and values as leadership framework.
The approach is Board, no persons with contractual or described by our new strategic compass.
facilitated by our human resources teams other arrangements with the Group These vehicles also enabled the sharing to encourage healthy challenge and broad whichareessential to its businesses.
thinking and plans are in place to cascade Social risk assessment and this approach further into the organisation.
We have also implemented our MyHFG assurance for our people The recruitment process for senior roles app.
Communicating with colleagues is and those in our supply chains has also been updated to incorporate the always a challenge in a manufacturing same leadership competency framework.
Hilton Food Group are members of environment.
MyHFG enables us to get This ensures a balanced assessment of TheFood Network for Ethical Trade the information our colleagues need to the candidate with greater emphasis on FNET where we are elected members them.
It is also the vehicle by which our transferable leadership behaviours.
of the Strategic Advisory Group.
FNET are colleagues can submit questions and developing an online risk assessment tool feedback to our Board.
Additionally we Gender diversity increased during the together with Anthesis that we will be continue to listen to our colleagues.
year through three female appointments using to evaluate all of the Hilton supply In 2018, we conducted engagement into senior leadership roles, of which two chains.
This helps us to make informed surveys in a number of our operating were internal appointments, including our business decisions about the need for companies and ensured robust follow first female managing director.
To further social compliance audits and or further up to continuously improve colleague develop our diversity and inclusion agenda collaborative improvement work.
In addition, our operating we have commenced a policy review also developing global tools for addressing companies ensure mechanisms are in which we will complete next year.
supply chain risks related to modern place to consult our colleagues and their slavery such as addressing recruitment representatives in keeping with legislative fees and we are integrating these into requirements and cultural norms.
thetraining and development plans we aredeveloping with our suppliers.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
