Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for Directors and officers liability insurance As required by the Listing Rules, the the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Companys Articles of Association Directors confirm that, with respect to contain a provision whereby each of the the year under review: Information in Directors Report Directors is indemnified by the Company the Company has complied with the The Directors Report comprises the in respect of liability in relation to: i any independence provisions included in Corporate Governance Report from negligence, default, breach of duty or the Relationship Agreement: and pages 61 to 73, this Report on pages 59 breach of trust relating to the Company and 60, and the Supplementary so far as the Company is aware: or any associated company: ii execution Information on pages 74 to 76.
Other the independence provisions included of his her duties as Director of the information that is relevant to the in the Relationship Agreement have Company: and iii the activities of the Directors Report, and which is been complied with by the Controlling Company or any associated company as incorporated by reference comprises: Shareholders or any of their trustee of an occupational pension associates: and Greenhouse gas emissions included in scheme.
For these purposes, associated the Sustainability Report on page 49: company has the meaning given to it by the procurement obligation included and Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006. in the Relationship Agreement has been complied with by the Controlling Policy on Financial Risk Management However, a Director will not be indemnified Shareholders.
in note 35 to the consolidated financial for any liability incurred by him her to statements.
the Company or Group companies: any Conflicts of interest For the purposes of compliance with criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of The Companies Act 2006 allows directors Disclosure Guidance and Transparency defending any criminal proceedings in of public companies to authorise conflicts Rules 4.1.
8R, the Strategic which he is convicted: or the costs of and potential conflicts of interest of Report and this Directors Report defending any civil proceedings brought directors where the Companys Articles including the other sections of the Annual by the Company in which judgment is of Association contain a provision to Report incorporated by reference given against him her.
Shareholders approved comprise the Management Report.
amendments to the Companys Articles The Company has purchased and of Association at the AGM held on Dividend maintains liability insurance for its 9 May 2008, which included provisions The Directors declared an interim Directors and officers as permitted by law.
giving the Directors authority to authorise dividend totalling $10 million 1.965 US Political and charitable donations matters which may result in the Directors cents per ordinary share in the year The Company does not make political breaching their duty to avoid a conflict ended 31 December 2018 and are donations.
During the year, the Group of interest.
recommending a final dividend of spent or donated a total of $8.3 million $10 million 1.959 US cents per ordinary The Board has established effective to benefit local communities share subject to approval at the procedures to enable the Directors to 2017: $5.9 million restated to also forthcoming Annual General Meeting notify the Company of any actual or include community social donations AGM, making a total dividend of potential conflict situations and for those made at a corporate level.
situations to be reviewed and, if Relationship agreement appropriate, to be authorised by the Dividend waiver Pelham Investment Corporation the Board, subject to any conditions that The trustee of the Hochschild Mining Major Shareholder, Eduardo Hochschild may be considered necessary.
In keeping Employee Share Trust the Employee who, together with the Major Shareholder with the approach agreed by the Board, Trust has waived, on an ongoing basis, are collectively referred to as the Directors conflicts were reviewed during the right to dividend payments on shares Controlling Shareholders and the the year under review.
held by the Employee Trust.
Company entered into a relationship Directors of the Company who have an Directors agreement the Relationship Agreement interest in matters under discussion at The names, functions and biographical in preparation for the Companys IPO in Board meetings are required to declare details of the Directors serving at the date 2006 and which was amended and this interest and to abstain from voting on of this report are given on pages 56 restated during 2014. the relevant matters.
All of the Directors were in office The principal purpose of the Relationship transactions are approved by a for the duration of the year under review.
Agreement is to ensure that the Group committee of the Board consisting solely Each of the Directors will be retiring and is capable of carrying on its business for of Independent Directors.
In addition, the seeking re-election by shareholders at the benefit of the shareholders of the Directors will be able to impose limits or the 2019 AGM in line with the UK Company as a whole, and that conditions when giving any authorisation, Corporate Governance Code.
transactions and relationships with the if they think this is appropriate.
Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective associates are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Further details of the Relationship Agreement with regard to the conduct of the Major Shareholder are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 62 and, with regard to the right to appoint Directors to the Board, are set out on page 75.
60 Hochschild Mining PLC DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Going concern AGM the Management Report includes a The Groups business activities, its future The 13th AGM of the Company will be fair review of the development and development and the factors likely to held at 4 pm on 6 June 2019 at the offices performance of the business and the affect its performance and position are of Linklaters LLP.
The shareholder circular position of the Company and the set out in the Strategic Report from the incorporating the Notice of AGM will undertakings included in the Inside Front Cover to page 55.
The be sent separately to shareholders or, consolidation taken as a whole, together financial position of the Group, its cash for those who have elected to receive with a description of the principal risks flows, liquidity position and borrowings electronic communications, and uncertainties that they face.
are described in the Financial Review on will be available for viewing at Disclaimer pages 34 to 39 and discussion of the www.
com Neither the Company nor the Directors Groups viability on the occurrence of The shareholder circular contains accept any liability to any person in certain scenarios is provided in the details of the business to be considered relation to this Annual Report except Viability Statement on page 55.
to the extent that such liability could addition, note 35 to the financial arise under English law.
Accordingly, statements includes the Groups Auditor any liability to a person who has objectives, policies and processes for A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young demonstrated reliance on any untrue or managing its capital: its financial risk LLP as Auditor will be put to shareholders misleading statement or omission shall management objectives: details of its at the forthcoming AGM.
be determined in accordance with financial instruments: and its exposure Statement on disclosure of information Section 90A of the Financial Services to credit risk and liquidity risk.
to Auditor and Markets Act 2000.
As previously reported, 2018 saw the Having made enquiries of fellow Directors Groups average realisable price for gold and of the Companys Auditor, each remain unchanged compared with 2017, Director confirms that, to the best of On behalf of the Board whereas silver was 9.5% lower.
his her knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which The Group has achieved record levels of Raj Bhasin the Companys Auditor is unaware.
attributable production of 39 million silver Company Secretary Furthermore, each Director has taken equivalent ounces 526.7k gold equivalent 19 February 2019 all the steps that he she ought to have ounces with strong contributions from taken as a Director in order to make Inmaculada and Pallancata.
This strong himself herself aware of any relevant level of production and costs for the year audit information and to establish that which are in line with positively revised the Companys Auditor is aware of guidance has resulted in a strong that information.
This confirmation is given, and should As part of its risk management be interpreted, in accordance with the responsibilities, the Board continually provisions of Section 418 2 of the reviews its capital structure, initiatives to Companies Act 2006. reduce operating costs and, furthermore, contingency measures that can be Statement of Directors with respect implemented in the event that precious to the Annual Report and financial metal prices conditions deteriorate.
statements As required by the UK Corporate In conclusion, having considered financial Governance Code, the Directors confirm forecasts and projections which take into that they consider that the Annual account i possible changes in Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced commodity price scenarios: and ii the and understandable and provides the contingency measures that could be information necessary for shareholders taken to alleviate pressure on the balance to assess the Companys performance, sheet in the event of a fall in prices, the business model and strategy.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have Statement of Directors responsibilities adequate resources, including access to The Directors confirm that to the best of contingent resources, that would see it their knowledge: continue in operational existence for the the financial statements, prepared in foreseeable future.
Thus they continue accordance with the applicable set of to adopt the going concern basis of accounting standards, give a true and accounting in preparing the annual fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements.
financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and
