90 Hochschild Mining PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 91 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC Opinion In our opinion: Hochschild Mining plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Hochschild Mining plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of cash flows for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 13 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 36 to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 50 to 54 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 69 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 60 of the Directors Report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 55 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
92 Hochschild Mining PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC CONTINUED Overview of our audit approach Key audit Recoverability of the carrying value of the Groups mining assets matters Revenue recognition Mine rehabilitation provisions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components, audit procedures on specific balances for a further two components and for the remaining 13 components we performed other audit procedures.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 98% of Adjusted EBIDTA, 100% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$5.4m which represents 2% of Adjusted EBITDA.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 93 Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Our approach focused on the following procedures: As a result of the audit Recoverability of the carrying value of the procedures performed, Groups mining assets Obtained an understanding of managements process we have concluded that Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 66 : Accounting and key controls over impairment of mining assets, and managements policies page 104 : and Notes 15, 16 and 17 of the walked through the controls, in order to assess their impairment indicator Consolidated Financial Statements pages 126 to 129 design effectiveness in supporting the prevention, analysis and detection or correction of material errors in the At 31 December 2018 the carrying values of the Groups impairment assessment financial statements.
mining assets were: for the Groups CGUs Obtained managements assessment of whether any has been carried out indicators of impairment or reversal of impairment were Property, plant and equipment: US$849.2m 2017: appropriately and in present during 2018, following the requirements of IAS US$895.7m : accordance with the 36 and IFRS 6. requirements of IFRS.
Evaluation and exploration assets: US$155.2 2017: US$147.4 : We challenged the validity and completeness of the and Intangible assets: US$24.4m 2017: US$24.5m.
For this purpose, We further concluded we considered managements assessment by reference that the significant IFRS requires companies to test their assets by cash to our knowledge of the business and the following assumptions used in generating units CGUs for impairment whenever an procedures: the recoverable value indicator exists.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful models prepared by life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever We independently obtained spot and analyst forecasts management were there is an indication that the asset might be impaired.
For of future gold and silver prices as at 31 December 2017 appropriate, and when the Group, CGUs represent individual mines and advanced and 2018, and assessed whether the movements were applicable, fell within exploration projects.
indicators of impairment or impairment reversal: the range of acceptable We obtained and tested relevant support of Additionally, IFRS requires companies to test the CGUs for outcomes.
managements position on market interest rates and impairment reversal at the end of each reporting period by other macro-economic factors: Based on the assessing whether there is any indicator that an impairment For all operating mines, we assessed the economic procedures performed, loss recognised in prior periods for an asset other than performance of the CGUs during the year and identified we concur with goodwill may no longer exist, or may have decreased.
progress against approved mine plans and budgets, managements For the Group, the appropriate CGUs are: taking into account updated reserves and resources assessment that the estimates.
carrying value of the Operating mines: Arcata, Pallancata, Inmaculada For exploration projects we obtained an understanding San Jose, Volcan and and San Jose: and of managements plans to recover the carrying value in San Felipe CGUs are full from successful development or by sale.
neither further Advanced exploration projects: San Felipe, Volcan, Azuca impaired nor require a and Crespo.
We obtained the recoverable value models from reversal of impairment management for all those CGUs requiring a full The Volcan CGU includes an intangible asset with an as at 31 December 2018. impairment assessment and assessed the indefinite useful life and therefore is tested for impairment at appropriateness of the methodology applied in We concluded that the least annually and whenever there is an indication that the preparing the model as well as the arithmetical related disclosures in asset might be impaired.
the Group financial As disclosed in note 15 of the financial statements, indicators With respect to the recoverable value model for the San statements are of impairment were identified in 2018 with respect to the San Jose CGU, we performed the following procedures: appropriate.
Jose and San Felipe CGUs, and therefore management We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions performed impairment tests on those CGUs.
such as price, production volumes, grades, operating As a consequence of the above indicators, management cost and capex by comparing to third party estimated the recoverable amount of these assets which did independent sources or other evidence and performed not result in the recognition of an impairment charge or an sensitivity analyses on significant inputs: impairment reversal at any of the CGUs identified above.
We agreed the main inputs to the approved mine plans or budgets, and compared them with historical actual There is a risk that the carrying values of the Groups mining figures where appropriate.
Furthermore, we performed assets might not be recoverable or could require additional an assessment of the accuracy of management reversal of impairments previously recognised.
The risk forecasting process: and relating to recoverability of the carrying value of mining We involved our valuation specialists to assist us in assets has remained stable in comparison to the prior year.
assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate used in the calculation.
With respect to the recoverable value model for the San Felipe and Volcan CGUs, we agreed the main inputs used to information from third party independent sources.
In addition, for the Volcan and San Felipe CGUs, we involved our valuation specialists to assist us in assessing the appropriateness of the methodology applied to determine the carrying value of the CGU as well as the key assumptions used therein.
We compared the calculated recoverable value of the San Jose, Volcan and San Felipe CGUs to the associated carrying value, assessing whether any impairment charges, or reversal of previously recognised impairment charges, were necessary.
Furthermore, we considered the appropriateness, sufficiency, and clarity of the impairment-related disclosures provided in the financial statements and disclosures of sensitivities.
We performed audit procedures at the Group level over this risk area covering 100% of the risk amounts.
94 Hochschild Mining PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Our approach focused on the following procedures: As a result of the Revenue recognition procedures performed Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 66 : Accounting Obtained an understanding of the key controls around we concluded that the policies page 104 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial the revenue recognition process to ensure that they provisions for mine Statements page 118 are designed effectively, supporting the prevention, rehabilitation activities detection or correction of misstatements in the For the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group recognised have been recognised reported revenue figures: revenue from operations of US$704.3m 2017: US$722.6m.
appropriately in Read the terms and conditions of the sales contracts accordance with IFRS, The number of sales contracts with high value of and ensured they have been accounted for in line with and that all required transactions and complexity of terms that define when the Groups revenue recognition policy: disclosures have been the title, risks and rewards are transferred to the customer, Performed detailed substantive testing procedures included in the Group give rise to the risk that revenue is not recognised in the over the revenue transactions.
This included: agreeing financial statements.
the main inputs to supporting evidence such as provisional and final invoices, credit debit notes, bill of Based on the The risk relating to revenue recognition has remained stable ladings, market prices, agreements and bank procedures performed, in comparison to the prior year as no significant changes statements, recalculating the amounts invoiced and we consider the were noted in sales agreements.
However, we no longer recorded as revenue, performing cut-off testing to judgments and consider the valuation of the embedded derivative to be ensure revenue is recognised in the correct period: assumptions made by part of the significant risk, as gain on embedded derivatives For open sales where provisional pricing applies, we management and the is not material, and there have been no historical verified with external sources that inputs used were external specialists to misstatements related to the estimation of the provisional appropriate and recalculated the provisional price be reasonable.
adjustment to ensure it was correctly measured: Performed analytical review procedures comparing current year to prior year, investigating unusual variances, taking into account: commodity type, quantities sold, prices including discounts and customers: Investigated and understood the nature of any significant credits raised post year-end to ensure that transactions were recorded at the correct value in the relevant period: Tested reconciliation of year-end inventory by agreeing the annual movement of production and sales transactions to the respective reports: Ensured that the impacts from applying IFRS 15 has been appropriately accounted for within the financial statements, including the relevant disclosures: and Read and assessed the financial statements disclosures to ensure that presentation and all the disclosure requirements in respect of revenue and the provisional pricing have been included.
We performed audit procedures in two components under full scope audit, covering 100% of the risk amount, supervised by the Group team.
Our approach consisted on the following procedures: As a result of the Mine rehabilitation provisions procedures performed Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 66 : Accounting Obtained an understanding of managements process we concluded that the policies page 104 : and Note 25 of the Consolidated to estimate the future restoration costs: provisions for mine Financial Statements page 136 Obtained a detailed understanding of the mine closure rehabilitation activities reports issued by the external specialists engaged by At 31 December 2018 management has recorded a mine have been recognised the Group to update the mine closure plans, and held rehabilitation provision of US$93.9m 2017: US$100.1m.
appropriately in discussions directly with the specialists, to understand accordance with IFRS, Management is required to provide for the costs of their work and assess the sufficiency of the Groups and that all required environmental rehabilitation and site restoration in restoration provisions: disclosures have been accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities Assessed the objectiveness and competence of included in the Group and contingent assets.
the external and internal specialists used by financial statements.
management: Given the high level of judgement and estimation in Understood the main changes or lack of changes in Based on the assessing the method, timing and quantum of the cash flows estimates and new restoration costs and challenged procedures performed, required to rehabilitate mines, this is an area of audit focus.
For this purpose, we held we consider the discussions with management and the third-party judgments and The risk relating to mine rehabilitation provisions has specialist as well as performed comparison to prior assumptions made by remained stable in comparison to the prior year, however as year figures and enquired about significant variances: management and the certain mines are approaching the end of life, this matter Performed an overall recalculation of the mine external specialists to still had a greater effect on directing the efforts of the rehabilitation provision, including assessing the be reasonable.
engagement team and therefore we consider it as a key appropriateness of the discount rate applied by audit matter.
agreeing the nominal risk-free rate according to the life of each mine unit to independent sources: and Assessed the appropriateness of the accounting for the changes to these provisions, and ensured that these changes and the provisions were appropriately reflected and disclosed in the Group financial statements.
We performed audit procedures on two full scope components covering 100% of this risk amount, under the supervision of the Group team The key audit matters in the current year audit report have not changed since the prior year.
As part of our audit, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The above is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 95 An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 18 reporting components of the Group, we selected three components covering entities within the UK, Peru and Argentina, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
In addition to this, for two components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within those components that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 98% 2017: 97% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA on an absolute basis, 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 97% 2017: 96% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 98% 2017: 97% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA, 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 89% 2017: 89% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 8% 2017: 7% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Of the remaining 13 components that together represent 2% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA, none are individually greater than 2% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical reviews, testing of consolidation journals and enquiry of management about unusual transactions in these components, to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Adjusted EBITDA % Revenue % Total assets % Full scope components 98% Full scope components 100% Full scope components 89% Other procedures 2% Specic scope components 8% Other procedures 3% Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the two specific scope components, the primary audit team performed the audit procedures.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the primary operating locations where the Group audit scope was focused.
During the current years audit cycle, multiple visits were undertaken by the primary audit team including the Senior Statutory Auditor to the component teams in Peru and Argentina.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, and meetings with local management.
In addition, the primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process, including attending planning and closing meetings, and reviewed key audit working papers on risk areas.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
96 Hochschild Mining PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC CONTINUED Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$5.4 million 2017: US$6.0 million, which is 2% 2017: 2% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA as reported in the Strategic Report.
We believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides us with an earnings-based measure that is significant to users of the financial statements.
This was considered to be a critical measure for users of the financial statements, given the focus on this metric by the Groups shareholders, investors and external lenders.
In addition, the Adjusted EBITDA measure is used to assess the Groups compliance with key restrictive covenants on the Groups borrowings.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$20.9 million 2017: US$21.1 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of Equity.
The Parent Company materiality is higher than the Group materiality as it is based on Equity, which we considered to be an appropriate basis for materiality for a holding company, as the users of the financial statements focus on a capital-based measured.
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net of finance cost, foreign exchange loss and income tax Starting basis Add: Depreciation and amortisation in cost of sales and in administrative expenses Add: Exploration expenses other than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses Adjustments Add: Other non-cash expenses US$268.0m Adjusted EBITDA Materiality of US$5.4m 2% of materiality basis Materiality During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and updated the materiality figures based on the forecasted EBITDA figures as at 30 November 2018.
The Group materiality was revised downwards due to a reduction in the Adjusted EBITDA.
Additionally, upon receipt of final year-end figures we reassessed materiality and concluded it remained appropriate.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$4.0m 2017: US$4.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our understanding of the Groups control environment, and that there have been no significant events that would alter our expectation that there is a low likelihood of misstatements that would be material individually or in aggregate to the financial statements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement of that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$2.0m to US$4.1m 2017: US$2.2m to US$3.8m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$270k 2017: US$300k, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 97 Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 90, including Strategic Report and Governance sections including Directors Report, Corporate Governance Report, Supplementary Information, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of Directors Responsibilities, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 60 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on page 66 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 61 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 90, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
98 Hochschild Mining PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC CONTINUED Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant and directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those related to the report framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK, Peru and Argentina.
We understood how Hochschild Mining plc is complying with those frameworks through enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand what areas were susceptible to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where risk was considered as higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free of fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, internal audit and all full and specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to health and safety and environmental matters.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 16 October 2006 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor of the Company for the period ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 13 years, covering periods from our initial appointment in 2006 through to the year ended 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mirco Bardella Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 19 February 2019
