Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Your Board is committed to ensuring good governance because well-governed companies are successful companies Dear Shareholder I am delighted to present the Corporate of recommendations which add value to and, in so doing, has prompted the Governance Report for 2018. the governance framework such as the implementation of protocols that will management of key risks.
In addition, the see the Company better protected In this section of the Annual Report, we discussions held in the course of the against cybersecurity threats report on the Companys compliance evaluation sought the Directors views on and an enhanced state of readiness with the provisions of the 2016 edition of corporate culture as well as engagement to recover from a business the UK Corporate Governance Code with key stakeholders, both of which are disruption event.
the Code and the application of its key themes of the new UK Corporate principles.
Through this report, your In addition, the Nominations Governance Code which will apply to the Board seeks to demonstrate its Committee has overseen the Company in respect of 2019.
In this regard, commitment to overseeing a framework preparation of thorough succession I am pleased to report that the scope of of practices and controls to protect plans at both Board and senior responsibilities of the CSR Committee has the Companys assets and goodwill.
Both aspects are been extended this year to also receive key to ensure the availability of the I would like to highlight the following updates from the Vice President of HR on collective skillset required to achieve activities undertaken by the Directors employee matters.
This will ensure that Hochschilds strategic and during the year.
the Board is kept regularly updated on operational goals.
issues that affect our people across the Board Enhancements organisation.
If you should have any queries In 2018, we continued with our internallyarising from this report, please led Board evaluation process which was Planning for the Future do not hesitate to contact me at managed by Michael Rawlinson, as our The Committees have also played a Chairman@hocplc.
The crucial role in strengthening the process, which is described in more Companys governance.
detail in this report, reviewed many Eduardo Hochschild In particular, the Audit Committee aspects of the functioning of the Board, Chairman embarked on its practice of setting the Committees and the roles played by objectives for the management team the Directors.
This resulted in a number Introduction Statement of compliance In relation to i above, as stated in last This report, together with the Directors The Board confirms that, in respect of years Annual Report, the Board had Remuneration Report, describes how the year under review, the Group has adopted a wider malus policy which the Company has applied the Main complied with the provisions contained applied with effect from the incentives Principles of the UK Corporate in the Code with the following granted and the bonus awarded, last Governance Code the Code 2016 exceptions: year.
However, clawback has not been edition in respect of the year ended adopted as it is unenforceable in the i the Company did not fully comply 31 December 2018.
A copy of the Code countries in which the Company with the requirement that is available on the website of the primarily operates.
performance-related incentive Financial Reporting Council FRC at schemes should include In relation to ii above, please refer to www.
arrangements to recover the Board Evaluation section below for or withhold variable pay when Disclosures to be included in the further details on the internally-led appropriate to do so i. e. clawback Corporate Governance Report in approach to the Boards performance or malus : and relation to share structure, shareholder evaluation.
agreements and the Companys ii a n externally facilitated evaluation of constitutional provisions pursuant to the Board has not been undertaken.
the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules are provided in the Supplementary Information section on pages 74 to 76.
62 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board Status of the Chairman Senior Independent Director The Board is responsible for approving In light of his majority shareholding, Michael Rawlinson assumed the role of the Companys strategy and monitoring the Chairman is not considered to be Senior Independent Director on 1 January its implementation, for overseeing the independent.
However, during the 2018 and continues to act as such.
Mr management of operations and for one-to-one interviews conducted with Rawlinsons role is not only to act as a providing leadership and support to the each Board member, the other Directors central point of contact for the Nonsenior management team in achieving of the Board continue to assert that, for Executive Directors as a group but to sustainable added value for shareholders.
the reasons set out below, no undue also act as a conduit between the It is also responsible for enabling the influence is exercised by Mr Hochschild.
Non-Executive Directors and the efficient operation of the Group by executive management team.
To facilitate Firstly, the composition of the Board providing adequate financial and human this, Mr Rawlinson chairs meetings of the ensures that the significant presence of resources and an appropriate system of Non-Executive Directors and of the Independent Directors ensures that the financial control to ensure these Independent Non-Executive Directors views of minority shareholders are well resources are fully monitored and utilised.
immediately after each Board meeting.
Secondly, the undertakings This provides the opportunity to gather There is an agreed schedule of matters provided in the Relationship Agreement feedback and thoughts on Board reserved for the Board which includes the as described below ensure that the discussions which are subsequently approval of annual and half-yearly results, Company and its subsidiaries are relayed to the Chairman and or the the Groups strategy, the annual budget capable of carrying on their business executive team as appropriate.
A crucial and major items of capital expenditure.
independently of Eduardo Hochschild part of the role of the Senior Independent and his associates.
Composition Director is to meet with major At all times during the year, the Board The Relationship Agreement was shareholders if concerns have not been comprised a majority of Independent reviewed by the Board in 2014 following addressed by the executive team.
Throughout the the implementation of new Listing Rules such meetings were requested, however, year, the Board comprised the Chairman, applicable to listed companies with Mr Rawlinson did meet with a number the Chief Executive Officer and six controlling shareholders the 2014 Listing of major investors, together with the Non-Executive Directors, of whom five Rules.
As a result, an amended and Chairman, in January 2018 following are considered, by the Board, to be of restated Relationship Agreement was his appointment to the role of Senior independent judgement and character.
approved and adopted which, in addition Independent Director.
Dionisio Romero Paoletti is not to being the subject of a general update, Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent as he has incorporated revised independence The Companys Non-Executive Directors been nominated to the Board by the provisions reflecting the language of hold, or have held, senior positions in the Companys major shareholder under the 2014 Listing Rules.
corporate sector with the exception of its rights pursuant to the Relationship Under the terms of the agreement, each Sanjay Sarma who has a background in Agreement further details of which of Eduardo Hochschild and Pelham academia in the field of mechanical can be found on page 59 of the Investment Corporation being the entity engineering and technology.
through which Mr Hochschild holds his bring their experience and independent Chairman and Chief Executive shares in the Company the Major perspective to enhance the Boards The Board is led by the Chairman, Shareholder undertakes that: capacity to help develop proposals on Eduardo Hochschild, who is also the strategy and to oversee and grow the all transactions with the Company majority shareholder of the Company operations within a sound framework and its subsidiaries will be conducted with a c. 51% holding.
at arms length and on normal commercial terms: The Board has approved a document Details of the tenure of appointment of which sets out the division of neither of them nor their associates Non-Executive Directors are provided responsibilities between the Chairman the Relevant Parties will take any in the Directors Remuneration Report.
This action that would have the effect of Independence of Non-Executive Directors document was considered by the Board preventing the Company from The Board considers that all of the during the year and was re-approved complying with its obligations under Non-Executive Directors serving during without amendment.
the listing rules: the year were independent of the the Relevant Parties will not propose, As Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild is Company.
In reaching this conclusion, and neither will they procure the responsible for leading the Board of the Board considered: proposal of, a shareholder resolution Directors and ensuring that the Board Jorge Borns tenure on the Board of intended or which appears to be is enabled to play a full and constructive over nine years: and intended to circumvent the proper part in the development and Sanjay Sarmas position as a director application of the listing rules: and determination of the Groups strategy of Top Flight Technologies, a company and overall commercial objectives.
the Relevant Parties will not take any in which Eduardo Hochschild has a action that would preclude or inhibit Ignacio Bustamante, as the Chief 1.25% shareholding and a convertible any member of the Group from carrying Executive Officer, is responsible for the note investment.
on its business independently of any formulation of the vision and long-term of them.
Notwithstanding the above, the Board corporate strategy of the Group, the excluding the Director in question is of approval of which is a matter for the Certain confirmations are required to be the view that the above circumstances full Board.
given by the Board under the New Listing are not considered to be of a nature to Rules with regards to the Companys The Chief Executive Officer is responsible materially interfere with the exercise of compliance with the independent for leading the executive team in the the respective Directors independent provisions which can be found in the day-to-day management of the Groups judgement.
Directors Report on page 59. business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 63 2018 Board meetings Maximum Directors receive a full pack of papers possible Actual for consideration at least five working attendance attendance at scheduled at scheduled days in advance of each scheduled Board Board Board meeting.
In the event a Director Independent Meetings Meetings is unable to attend a Board or Eduardo Hochschild Chairman No 4 4 Committee meeting, comments are Graham Birch Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 encouraged to be fed back to the Jorge Born Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 Chairman of the relevant meeting who Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer ensures that the absent Directors No 4 4 views are represented.
Eileen Kamerick Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 Five Board meetings were held during 1 Dionisio Romero Paoletti Non-Executive Director No 4 3 the year, of which four were scheduled 2 Sanjay Sarma Non-Executive Director Yes 4 3 meetings and one was an ad-hoc meeting.
Attendance at the scheduled meetings was as follows.
1 Mr Romero Paoletti was unable to travel to London in May 2018 due to a pre-existing personal commitment.
2 Mr Sarma was unable to travel to London in May 2018 due to a scheduled trip to Asia as part of his role with MIT.
Senior executives of the organisation Business performance Sustainability are invited to attend Board meetings detailed updates on the operations reviews of the social and political and to make presentations on their with continued regular updates on the climate in Peru and Argentina and areas of responsibility.
operational viability of the Arcata mine: their potential impact on the Group: consideration of business development consideration of a strategy to enhance In addition to the regular updates projects: the Groups engagement with local from across the business, the principal communities including through the matters considered by the Board consideration of unbudgeted strategic use of technology: and during 2018 are listed below.
initiatives: and performance of the Group against the presentations from the Vice President Safety internally-designed environmental of Brownfield Exploration on progress detailed reports on the two accidents corporate scorecard.
against the Groups brownfield that occurred during the year which objectives and, in particular, the resulted in three fatalities and the Corporate significant level of resources identified management actions to be taken in consideration of the Companys at Inmaculada.
light of the findings of the internal purpose, values and cultural attributes investigations: and updates on safety as part of the Companys rebranding.
Risk performance and the ongoing the significant risks faced by the Investors views implementation of the Safety Culture Group and the corresponding feedback from the investor and proxy Transformation Plan see page 43 for mitigation plans: and agencies on the proposed AGM further details.
the controls introduced following business: and Financial the entry into bankruptcy protection views of investors attending the the stress-tested scenarios and the of a long-standing customer with Companys Capital Markets Day.
underlying assumptions in support of outstanding accounts payables to the going concern and viability In between Board meetings, Directors the Group.
statements: are kept informed of latest developments Governance through monthly management reports considered recommendations of the a detailed presentation from the on the Companys operations, safety and Audit Committee to adopt the 2017 Company Secretary on the 2018 environmental performance, exploration Annual Report and Accounts and the UK Corporate Governance Code and activity and financial situation.
2018 Half-Yearly Report including the updates on relevant findings of the recommended 2017 final dividend UK Listing Authority: and the 2018 interim dividend: presentation from the Companys legal the Groups ongoing financial position: advisers on Directors duties under the 2019 budget: and English law and the Market Abuse Peruvian tax reforms.
Regulation: an update on the implementation Strategy of the 2017 Board evaluation strategic options to facilitate the recommendations, the outcome of Groups growth: the 2018 Board evaluation and the updates on the Groups innovation form of the 2019 process: a review of projects: and the document setting out the division of the Groups strategic plan.
responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO which was approved unamended : and the annual reviews of Directors conflicts of interest and independence of Non-Executive Directors.
64 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Appointments and Induction re-election of Directors New Board appointees are offered 2018 Board evaluation the opportunity to meet with key Board nominations are recommended to In keeping with past practice, management personnel and the the Board by the Nominations Committee.
the 2018 Board evaluation process Companys principal advisers as well There were no new appointments during was undertaken internally through as undertaking visits to the Groups the year.
In addition, where appointees by the Senior Independent Director The Company has adopted the practice will serve on any of the Board Committees, assisted by the Company Secretary.
of requiring Directors to seek annual sessions with the relevant Committee re-election by shareholders in keeping Chair are organised.
Mr Romero Paoletti, The interviews were structured to with the UK Corporate Governance who was appointed a Director on seek Directors views on a number Code.
The biographies of the Directors 1 January 2018, received a briefing on of subject areas including those can be found on pages 56 and 57. the responsibilities of Directors of a UK outlined below.
listed company and, in addition, met Under the terms of the Relationship The Committees with various employees from across Agreement, the Major Shareholder has Composition and overall workings the organisation.
i the right to appoint up to two Nonof the main Board Committees, Executive Directors to the Board for so Briefings including specific aspects of long as the Major Shareholder holds an The Directors receive regular briefings the performance of the Audit interest of 30% or more in the Company from the Company Secretary on Committee, as well as of the and ii the right to appoint one Nondevelopments in the areas of corporate Brownfield Working Group Executive Director for so long as it has an law and corporate governance that affect established to review the Groups interest of 15% or more in the Company, their roles as Directors of a UK listed progress in this vital source of and in each case to remove any such company.
In addition, the Directors have potential growth: and Director s previously appointed.
ongoing access to the Companys officers Specific aspects of each and advisers with presentations arranged The Relationship Agreement continues Committees role and scope during the year from the Groups English for so long as the Companys shares are of responsibilities.
legal advisers and corporate brokers.
traded on the London Stock Exchange The Board or until such times as the Controlling Advice The composition of the Board, Shareholders including Eduardo The Company has procedures by focusing on the skills mix after Hochschild cease to own or control in which members of the Board may take the retirements from the Board: aggregate a minimum of 15% of the independent professional advice at the The workings of the Board: and issued share capital or voting rights of Companys expense in the furtherance the Company.
Consideration of specific aspects of the Boards role including The Major Shareholder exercised Company Secretary strategy and M&A and this right for the first time with the The Company Secretary is appointed and stakeholder engagement.
appointment of Dionisio Romero Paoletti removed by the Board and is responsible who joined the Board on 1 January 2018. for advising the Board on governance Culture matters and the provision of In preparation for reporting Board development administrative and other services to the against the 2018 UK Corporate It is the responsibility of the Chairman Board.
All the Directors have access to the Governance Code, consideration to ensure that the Directors update Company Secretary.
was given to perceptions of their knowledge and their skills and are corporate culture: and provided with the necessary resources Board evaluation Discussion on ways in which to continue to do so.
This is achieved The Board is committed to the process corporate culture is assessed through the various means described as of continuous improvement which is and monitored by the Board.
In addition, a part of the Board achieved in particular by the robust evaluation process discussed in the next internally-led Board evaluation process In addition to the above, the section seeks to identify subject matters see inset box for aspects covered by the evaluation took in discussions and topics for presentation to the Board 2018 Board evaluation.
on performance during 2018, that Directors would find beneficial.
suggestions for topics to be discussed in 2019 and feedback on the performance of the Chairman and fellow Board members.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 65 Implementation of 2017 Board evaluation in light of the length of time between A number of actions were taken during the board meetings in August and late the year following the 2017 Board November December, that either a evaluation process.
These included: report from the Executive team on relevant developments be circulated to the circulation of all Committee papers the Board or, if necessary, a telephone to the full Board in order to facilitate the update meeting be convened: flow of information on the committees a presentation from one of the activities: Companys joint corporate brokers consideration, by the Nominations with investor feedback on the Capital Committee, of Board and Executive Markets Day: and succession plans: for the management talent mapping to a presentation, from the Groups reflect the Boards objective of relationship partner at Linklaters LLP, increasing the pool of female employees on the Directors duties under English for senior management roles.
law and the Market Abuse Regulation: External Board evaluation and Since the process was introduced, the the inclusion, in the monthly Directors unanimously consider that management accounts, of a dashboard the internally-led evaluation has resulted showing progress made in the in a number of recommendations that brownfield exploration programme.
have improved the way the Board and 2018 Board evaluation findings the Committees function.
For this reason, Evaluation of the Board and Committees an externally led evaluation was not The findings relating to the evaluation of undertaken during the year.
The Board the Board and the Committees were acknowledges the benefits of an external considered collectively by the Chairman appraisal of the overall governance and Michael Rawlinson as the Senior structure and processes and, while it is Independent Director and the resulting minded to continue using an internal recommendations were discussed and, evaluation, the format of the 2019 where appropriate, approved by the evaluation will be kept under review.
The Boards Committees Evaluation of the Chairman The Board has delegated authority to The findings of the Chairmans the Audit Committee, CSR Committee, performance evaluation were collated by Nominations Committee and Michael Rawlinson and discussed Remuneration Committee.
Reports from between the Non-Executive Directors each of these committees on their before being relayed to the Chairman.
activities during the year appear on the Outcome following pages.
Further information on The principal recommendations arising the activities of the CSR Committee and from the 2018 Board evaluation process Remuneration Committee can be found can be summarised as follows: in the Sustainability Report and Directors Remuneration Report respectively.
each of the main Board Committees should consider the mitigating actions detailed in the Board Risk Report with regards to the risks that fall within its respective terms of reference: informal meetings to be facilitated with those identified in the management succession plan as potential successors to the Vice Presidents: 66 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee report Key roles and responsibilities To monitor the integrity and material In addition to fulfilling its accuracy of the Companys financial responsibilities in relation to financial statements and related disclosures: reporting, the Committee also To monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk focused on a crucial aspect of risk management systems and review the management: preparing for the preparation of the going concern and unexpected.
viability statements: To review, on behalf of the Board, the Companys procedures for detecting fraud, the Companys systems and Dear Shareholder controls for the prevention of bribery I am pleased to introduce the Protection of Critical Processes and to review and conclude on nonAudit Committee report in respect Management identified a number of compliance: of its activities during 2018. processes across the business which, Oversight of the Internal Audit function, in the event of failure, could result in The Audit Committee is tasked by review of its annual work plan and its severe disruption.
The robustness of the Board to ensure a high quality findings: these processes was therefore of financial reporting, the presence subjected to testing with mitigation To oversee the relationship with the of a robust approach to managing risk actions identified to minimise the Companys external Auditor: and implementing a system of internal impact of disruption.
The processes To review the effectiveness of the controls.
The ways in which the targeted ranged from the operation external audit process: and Audit Committee has fulfilled these of the Inmaculada plant to the Groups responsibilities are described in To report to shareholders annually on payments and financial accounting this report.
the Committees activities including software platforms and the sales details of the significant audit issues In addition, in keeping with past process.
Management have worked encountered during the year and how practice, the Committee set diligently to ensure that all necessary they have been addressed.
management a number of objectives controls are fully implemented.
allied with its risk management duties, Business Continuity Plan Membership with the common theme of protecting In order to achieve a state of adequate Eileen Kamerick was, during the year the business against the unexpected.
readiness, management with the under review, and currently serves as, Cybersecurity support of PWC have carried out a the chair of the Audit Committee.
Eileen The Committee tasked management thorough review, of scenarios which was formerly a Chief Financial Officer with a review of the Groups exposure could qualify as Business Disruptors.
of a number of US-based companies to cybersecurity risks and to implement The impacts of these scenarios were operating in the mining, oil & gas, enhancements where vulnerabilities analysed and response teams, at investment banking and recruitment were identified.
This exercise prompted both mine site and corporate office sectors.
Eileen currently serves as the management to commission a risk locations, have worked together so that Audit Committee Financial Expert for the assessment by PwC which identified a responsibilities have been delineated AIG Funds and Anchor Series Trust US number of improvements in relation to and protocols put in place to facilitate mutual funds and Audit Committee the protection of the Groups industrial a managed recovery supported by a Chair of the Legg Mason Closed End and administrative networks and which plan of internal and external Mutual Funds.
Michael Rawlinsons career in banking the Groups IT infrastructure was specialised in the mining sector having subjected to a simulated attack Eileen Kamerick initially worked as an analyst and which prompted management to Committee Chair corporate financier, serving most recently review the security of certain servers.
as Global Co-Head of Mining and Metals at Barclays Investment Bank from 2013 until his retirement from that role in 2018 Meeting Attendance June 2017.
Maximum possible Actual Graham Birch was appointed a member Members Independent attendance attendance of the Committee on 1 January 2018 and Eileen Kamerick is a former director of BlackRock Yes 4 4 Non-Executive Director and Committee Chair Commodities Investment Trust plc and Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 manager of BlackRocks World Mining Graham Birch Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 Trust and Gold and General Unit Trust.
The Committee members who served during the year under review are considered to be Independent Directors and the Board is satisfied that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience and that the Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 67 For further details on the skills and following three months.
The CEO and the final report from the AQR team, the experience of the Committee members, CFO also receive copies of these reports Audit Committee requested EY to detail please refer to the biographical details on and robustly support the activities of the how it planned to respond to the limited pages 56 and 57.
The Committee improvement areas arising from the FRC met with the Head of Internal of Audit report, and obtained assurances on the The performance of the Committee was without the presence of executive execution of that plan.
Additionally, the considered as part of the annual Board management to discuss, among other AQR teams report noted two particular evaluation process which was considered things, the resourcing of the function areas where they considered EYs audit by the whole Board.
and the scheduled work plan.
work to be of a high standard, as well as specific examples of good audit practice.
Internal control Through the Attendees The AC welcomes the positive outcome processes described on the following The lead partner of the external Auditor, of this regulatory review.
page, the Audit Committee reviewed Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Chairman of the adequacy of the Groups internal the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee evaluated the control environment and risk the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice effectiveness of EY and the external audit management systems.
President of Legal & Corporate Affairs process as auditor taking into account and the Head of Internal Audit attend Whistleblowing The Audit Committee the results of Hochschild managements each Audit Committee meeting by reviewed the adequacy of the Groups internal survey relating to EYs invitation.
Whistleblowing Policy taking into performance over the 2018 financial year account the reports received through as well as views and recommendations The Company Secretary acts as the various online and offline channels from management and its own Secretary to the Committee.
Copies of experiences with the external auditor.
whistleblowing reports are circulated to Key criteria of the evaluation included Activity during the year the Chair of the Audit Committee who resource and expertise, efficiency of the The following matters featured amongst has a preliminary discussion with the audit process, quality of communication those considered by the Committee Head of Internal Audit on the approach and reporting to the Audit Committee.
during the year: to the investigation.
The findings of the The AC concluded that EY had Financial reporting The 2017 Annual investigation are then reported, in the performed effectively.
Report and Accounts and the 2018 first instance, to the Audit Committee Auditor objectivity The Audit Half-Yearly Report were reviewed by the Chair and to the next scheduled Committee has adopted a Policy Committee before recommending that meeting of the Audit Committee.
on the Use of External Auditors for the they be adopted by the Board.
In its Fraud and bribery The Audit Provision of Non-Audit Services review of these financial reports, the Committee continued to review see later section for more details.
Audit Committee reviewed accounting and challenge the actions taken Governance and evaluation The Audit policies, estimates and judgements by management to promote ethical Committee received updates from the applied in preparing the relevant and transparent working practices.
Auditor and the Company Secretary statements and the transparency The Group has adopted a Code of on regulatory and other developments and clarity of disclosures contained Conduct which describes the values and impacting the Committees role.
standards of behaviour expected of our relation to the evaluation of the Review of audit plans In line with employees and our business partners.
Committees performance, this was its usual practice, the Committee In addition, the Group has adopted a carried out as part of the annual Board considered reports from the external specific anti-bribery and anti-corruption evaluation.
Specific questions were put Auditor on the scope and structure of policy to reflect the Boards zero tolerance to each Board member on various the review of the half-yearly results and of these types of acts.
This policy is aspects of the performance of the Audit audit of the annual results and any circulated to all employees by the CEO Committee including its responsibilities recommendations on the Companys on a periodic basis, highlighting the in overseeing the relationship with the processes and controls.
consequences of acting in breach of its Auditor, and in relation to risk Risk management Consideration provisions which include termination of management.
General feedback on and challenge of risk management employment and criminal proceedings.
the Committees performance was assessments which incorporate a risk also sought and fed back to the External audit The Audit Committee matrix detailing i the most significant Committee Chair.
oversees the relationship with the risks facing the Group: ii an evaluation Committee objectives The Audit external Auditor who was reappointed reflecting the likelihood of the Committee has continued its initiative following a tender process undertaken occurrence of the risk and the extent of of setting specific objectives for itself in Q1 2016.
Following the key criteria the potential impact on the Group, and and management with a view to used to reappoint the external Auditor, iii commentary on the steps taken to ensuring the diligent fulfilment of its the Audit Committee evaluated the manage each specific risk.
Details of these performance of EY in 2018 and 51 to 54 for a description of the principal objectives are set out in the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to risks and uncertainties faced by the Chairs introductory letter.
recommend the re-appointment of EY Group during the year.
as external auditor at the 2018 Annual Tax Compliance Strategy The Audit Internal audit The Audit Committee General Meeting.
The Audit Committee Committee approved on behalf of the continued to oversee and challenge reviewed the findings of the external Board a document on the Groups the Groups adoption of a risk-based Auditor and management letters, and approach to UK tax matters.
The approach to internal audit.
The Audit reviewed and approved the audit fees.
document can be found at: Committee Chairman receives a www.
com en quarterly report from the Head of During 2019, the Audit Quality Review responsibility tax compliance strategy Internal Audit which sets out specific AQR team of the FRC conducted a areas covered, improvements being review of EYs audit of Hochschilds recommended and introduced, and consolidated financial statements for the proposals for the programme over the year ended December 31, 2017.
In light of 68 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, the Committee members undertaken by the Auditor in its testing Auditor independence held meetings with the external Auditor of managements going concern The Audit Committee continues to without executive management to discuss assessment and on the reasonableness oversee the implementation of specific matters relating to the 2017 annual audit of assumptions therein, including their policies designed to safeguard the and the 2018 Half-Yearly Report.
There consistency with assumptions and independence and objectivity of the were no matters of significance to report estimates used elsewhere in the Auditor, which includes the Groups policy from these meetings.
preparation of the financial statements.
on the provision of non-audit services.
In particular, the Committee challenged Policy on the use of Auditor for Significant audit issues management on the feasibility of the non-audit services As recommended by the Code, the mitigating actions and the potential Following the issue of the new following is a summary of the significant speed of their implementation.
consolidated Ethical Standard for Auditors issues considered by the Committee in In conclusion, the Committee is content by the Financial Reporting Council, the relation to the 2018 financial statements that the financial statements are in Audit Committee adopted a revised Policy and how these issues have been accordance with relevant accounting in 2016 on the use of the Auditor for addressed.
non-audit services the Revised a Impairments NAS Policy.
Please refer to the Directors Report on The Audit Committee assessed page 60 for its confirmation to The Revised NAS Policy lists those managements analysis which concluded shareholders on the appropriateness of non-audit services that the external that indicators of impairment in H2 2018 the Going Concern assumption and the Auditor is specifically prohibited from were present with regards to San Jose Risk Management section of the providing.
In summary, these include due to the devaluation of the Argentinian Directors approach to the longer-term a tax services: b bookkeeping: Peso, high level of inflation and the Viability Statement.
c payroll services: d designing or reinstatement of export taxes from implementing internal control or risk September 2018 and hence, was the c Mine rehabilitation provision management procedures with regards to subject of a full impairment assessment.
The Audit Committee considered the financial information or related In addition, impairment tests were carried judgement exercised by management technology systems: e valuation out with respect to the Volcan and in assessing the amounts required to services: f certain legal services: and San Felipe projects.
be paid by the Company to rehabilitate g corporate finance type services.
The Audit Committee considered, Certain of these services may be with regards to San Jose: In its assessment of the analysis provided by the Auditor subject undertaken by management and, where to the satisfaction of certain criteria analyst consensus forecasts for relevant, by an independent third party, ensuring the Auditors objectivity and the silver and gold, which did not show a the Audit Committee took into account: Audit Committees approval.
The Revised significant change vs December 2017: NAS Policy requires i the Audit and the basis of the estimation of future Committee and Chief Financial Officer rehabilitation costs: the underlying calculation to pre-approve all non-audit services of the impairment test.
the discount rate applied: undertaken by the external Auditor and significant changes in estimates and The Audit Committee considered, with ii that the cost of non-audit services the basis and level of new costs: and regards to the Volcan and San Felipe rendered by the external Auditor, in any projects, the value in-situ analysis the accounting for the changes in financial year, cannot exceed 70% of the undertaken by management together the provisions.
total audit fee for that year.
Please refer with the assumptions made therein.
to the next section entitled 2018 Audit The Audit Committee concluded that and non-audit fees for details on the In conclusion, the Audit Committee the provision is appropriate.
operation of this policy during the year.
concurred with management that no d Revenue recognition impairments be made for the full year Safeguards The Audit Committee reviewed ending 31 December 2018.
Additional safeguards to ensure auditor managements approach to the objectivity and independence include: b Going Concern Assessment accounting of revenue.
In addition, the six-monthly reports to the Audit The Directors must satisfy themselves Committee considered the Auditors Committee from the Auditor analysing as to the Groups ability to continue as procedures which focused on: the fees for non-audit services a going concern for a minimum of testing the key controls around the rendered: and 12 months from the approval of the revenue recognition process to confirm financial statements.
The Audit an annual assessment, by the Audit that they are designed and operating Committee supported the Board in this Committee, of the Auditors objectivity effectively, supporting the prevention assessment by considering whether, in and independence in light of all and detection of material errors in the adverse circumstances, the Company relationships between the Company reported revenue figures: has adequate liquid resources to meet its and the audit firm.
the timing of sales: and obligations as they fall due.
In February 2018 Audit and non-audit fees the appropriate treatment of provisional 2019, the Audit Committee reviewed the Details of fees paid to the external Auditor pricing.
Group budget and cash flow forecasts are provided in note 30 to the for the going concern period taking into As a result, the Audit Committee has been consolidated financial statements.
account the Companys anticipated able to conclude that revenue has been production profiles at each mine, recognised in accordance with budgeted capital and exploration accounting standards and the calculation expenditure and the sensitivity of the of any provisional pricing adjustments cashflow forecasts to movements in metal has been performed in accordance with prices.
In addition, the Audit Committee the Groups accounting policies.
corroborated its assessment through consideration of the processes Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 69 Compliance Statement required The system of internal control is designed under Article 7.1 of the Statutory Audit to manage rather than eliminate the risk Services for Large Companies Market of failure to achieve business objectives Investigation Mandatory Use of and it must be recognised that such a Competitive Tender Processes and Audit system can only provide reasonable and Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 not absolute assurance against material the Order misstatement or loss.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the Order during the year Audit Committees assessment under review.
Further to the statement of Based on its review of the process, the intent disclosed in last years Annual Audit Committee is satisfied that the Report to amend the Revised NAS Policy internal controls are in place at the so as to include the pre-approval of minor operational level within the Group.
recurring permitted services, the Boards assessment Committee, after further consideration, Risk management requires all non-audit engagements, Throughout the year, the Board regardless of value, to be the subject of considered its risk appetite which was its prior authorisation.
The Board confirms that its assessment of the Internal control and principal risks facing the Company, risk management including those that would threaten its Whilst the Board has overall responsibility business model, future performance, for the Groups system of internal control solvency or liquidity, and which are set out including risk management and for in the Risk Management & Viability reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility section, was robust.
for the periodic review of the effectiveness of these controls has been delegated to Internal control the Audit Committee.
Notwithstanding As detailed above, the Board, through the this delegation of authority, the Board delegated authority granted to the Audit continues to monitor the strategic risks Committee, monitors the ongoing process to which the Company is exposed in the by which critical risks to the business are context of a risk appetite that is under identified, evaluated and managed.
Internal controls are This process is consistent with the FRCs managed by the use of formal procedures Guidance on Risk Management, Internal designed to highlight financial, Control and Related Financial and operational, environmental and social Business Reporting published in 2014. risks and provide appropriate information The Directors confirm that, with the to the Board enabling it to protect support of the Audit Committee, the effectively the Companys assets and, effectiveness of the Companys system in turn, maintain shareholder value.
of risk management and internal controls The process used by the Audit Committee has been reviewed during the year under to assess the effectiveness of risk review.
These covered material controls, management and internal control which included controls covering systems comprises: operational, financial and compliance matters.
The controls operated effectively reports from the Head of the Internal during the financial year although, as is Audit function: the case for many large companies, reviews of accounting and financial additional controls were implemented reporting processes together with the or further strengthened during the year.
internal control environment at Group The Audit Committee was made aware level.
This involves the monitoring of of the control changes and there was no performance and the taking of relevant significant impact on the financial results.
action through the monthly review of The Directors confirm that no significant key performance indicators and, where failings or weaknesses were identified as required, the production of revised a result of the review of the effectiveness forecasts.
The Group has adopted a of the Groups system of internal control.
standard accounting manual to be followed by all finance teams, which is continually updated to ensure the consistent recognition and treatment of transactions and production of the consolidated financial statements: the External Auditor review and observations of the Companys internal control environment: review of budgets and reporting against budgets: and consideration of progress against strategic objectives.
70 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nominations Committee report considerations, such as the requisite independent Board representation In 2018 the Nominations and the potential to increase gender diversity.
Accordingly, the Committee Committee focussed its efforts is able to plan for future Non-Executive on the development needs of appointments both in terms of timing the Board and planning for the and the profile of potential appointees: succession of the Directors the succession and development plan for the Groups senior executives known and senior executives.
internally as the Talent Inventory Review TIR.
The TIR, which is compiled on an annual basis, seeks to ensure that those performing critical and key roles are Dear Shareholder retained through the provision of The Nominations Committee played an strikes a balance between continuity professional development.
It has sought to and a refreshing of skills and identifies a Critical Positions, being address the Directors professional perspectives.
those who can make a significant development needs in light of the contribution to the Groups strategic The senior executive succession findings of the 2017 Board evaluation success: and b Key Positions who, plan known internally as the Talent process which identified topics of may not necessarily occupy a Critical Inventory Review serves two purposes.
interest for presentation to the Board.
Position but are nevertheless considered Firstly, it provides reassurance that the These have been followed by desirable due to their specialised skills or Company is adequately prepared in presentations from the Groups English knowledge of the Group or exceptional the event a critical role needs to be legal advisers and corporate brokers.
It also identifies the rising talent This programme will continue into the supporting retention, the TIR also in the Company whom we seek to current year when we will consider, identifies the development needs for the retain through the investment in their successors to the Vice President roles among other things, the use of development.
Further details of these thereby assisting the Chief Executive advanced technology in the sector.
aspects of the Committees work are to plan for senior executive succession: In addition, the Committee considered provided below.
the findings of the 2017 Board the issue of succession: with regards evaluation process and, in particular, to the Board as well as senior the training needs of the Directors: Eduardo Hochschild management.
The former serves as a Committee Chairman the format of the 2018 Board evaluation valuable exercise in ensuring an orderly process.
As explained earlier in this transition of Board positions which report, it was decided that in light of the continued benefits that have been brought about by past internally 2018 Meeting Attendance Maximum led-evaluations, the Board favoured possible Actual the continuation of this approach in Members Independent attendance attendance 2018.
The format of the 2019 Board Eduardo Hochschild Committee Chairman No 2 2 evaluation will, however, be kept Graham Birch Non-Executive Director Yes 2 2 under review: and Jorge Born Non-Executive Director Yes 2 2 the findings of the 2018 Board Eileen Kamerick Non-Executive Director Yes 2 2 evaluation process see earlier section of the Corporate Governance Report.
Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director Yes 2 2 Dionisio Romero Paoletti Non-Executive Director No 2 2 Appointments to the Board Sanjay Sarma Non-Executive Director Yes 2 2 In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, regard is given to relevant experience and the skills required to complete the composition of a balanced Key roles and responsibilities Activity during the year Board, taking into account the challenges Identify and nominate candidates The principal matters considered during and opportunities facing the Company.
for Board approval: the year were: Make recommendations to the Board under the procedures approved by the Diversity policy Board, consideration of any conflicts on composition and balance: The Board acknowledges that diversity arising from external Non-Executive brings new perspectives which can drive Oversee the succession planning Directorships proposed to be taken by superior business performance and of Board and senior management Graham Birch, Eileen Kamerick and promote innovation.
However, as has been positions: and Michael Rawlinson.
As is usual practice, stated in past Annual Reports, the Board Review the Directors external interests the Non-Executive Director whose is keen to commit to the overriding with regards to actual, perceived proposed directorship was under principle that every Board member and or potential conflicts of interest.
consideration did not participate in the potential appointee must be able to respective discussions: demonstrate the skills and knowledge to Membership the succession plan for the Nonbe able to make a valued contribution to Graham Birch, Eileen Kamerick, Michael Executive Directors.
This merits-based approach Rawlinson and Dionisio Romero Paoletti deliberations, the Committee will continue to apply and the Board does were appointed members of the considered a skills matrix which not intend to set diversity targets.
As Committee from 1 January 2018. a maps the extent to which key skills demonstrated by the most recent are represented around the Board table: appointments, where the opportunity The Company Secretary acts as and b identifies any skill gaps that also arises to increase Board diversity Secretary to the Committee.
arise on the assumed retirements from whether of gender, culture, professional the Board within the next five years.
The background or nationality this would be matrix highlights other relevant considered to be an additional benefit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 71 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee report Key roles and responsibilities Evaluate the effectiveness of the The year saw many advances Groups policies for identifying and in terms of our environmental managing health, safety and environmental risks within the Groups performance and our interaction operations: with our local communities.
However, Assess the performance of the Group safety remains a top priority to with regard to the impact of health, which we remain committed.
safety, environmental and community relations decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other third parties.
It also assesses the impact of Dear Shareholder such decisions and actions on the The Company did some very good Plan is having the desired impact reputation of the Group: and work across numerous fronts in 2018: across the business as there was a Evaluate and oversee, on behalf of the among them are the Companys 46% reduction in the number of High Board, the quality and integrity of any environmental performance with a Potential Events in 2018 compared reporting to external stakeholders significant outperformance of the to 2017 discussed further in the concerning health, safety, environmental most stretching ECO Score target and Sustainability Report on page 42. and community relations issues.
the various community initiatives with Additional details on the initiatives their focus on education, digital access, implemented during the year can be Membership health and socio-economic found on pages 42 to 49.
There were no changes to committee development.
Management have membership during the year under review.
also dedicated a lot of time and effort Finally, I am pleased to report that in Sanjay Sarma was appointed a member in embedding a safety-first culture order to ensure that the Board is kept of the Committee from 1 January 2019. through the extensive Safety Culture informed of employees views, the Transformation Plan the Plan.
Committee has introduced the The Vice President of Operations and the It is therefore, deeply regrettable that practice of receiving reports from the Vice President of Legal and Corporate two accidents occurred at our mine Vice President of Human Relations.
Affairs attended each CSR Committee sites during 2018 which resulted in I look forward to updating shareholders meeting by invitation.
on this new aspect of our role in next Secretary acts as Secretary to the years Annual Report.
The Committee and, indeed the Board as a whole and the management Activity during the year team, remain committed to our Dr Graham Birch Details relating to the CSR Committee zero-tolerance approach to accidents.
Committee Chairman and the Groups activities in this area are There are encouraging signs that the set out in the Sustainability Report on pages 40 to 49.
2018 Meeting Attendance Maximum possible Actual Members Independent attendance attendance Graham Birch Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 and Committee Chairman Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director Yes 4 4 Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer No 4 4 72 Hochschild Mining PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee report Key roles and responsibilities Determine and agree with the Board the In 2018, the Remuneration Committee broad policy for the remuneration of the maintained its focus on ensuring Executive Directors, other members of senior management and the Company that the Groups incentive schemes Secretary, as well as their specific continued to reward performance remuneration packages: for the successful achievement of Regularly review the ongoing our strategic objectives.
appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance-related Dear Shareholder pay schemes operated by the Company Last year, we revised the Directors Further details on the Committees and approve the total annual payments Remuneration Policy which we work in 2018 and how we seek to reflect made under such schemes: presented to shareholders along with the experience of our wider Ensure that contractual terms on the Annual Report of Remuneration for stakeholders in executive pay can be termination, and any payments made, approval at the 2018 AGM.
I am pleased found in the Directors Remuneration are fair to the individual and the to report that both were approved by Report from page 77.
Company, that failure is not rewarded, the majority of our shareholders with and that the duty to mitigate loss is a 96.9% and 84.5% vote for each item Michael Rawlinson fully recognised: and respectively.
A summary of the policy Committee Chairman can be found on pages 78 to 82 with the Review and note annually the full policy in the 2017 Annual Report remuneration trends across and Accounts.
In addition to considering the usual Membership matters within its terms of reference, Eileen Kamerick was appointed a member the Committee sought advice from its of the Committee on 1 January 2018. advisers, Mercer Kepler on feedback to the revised Remuneration Policy as well The Company Secretary acts as as on external market developments Secretary to the Committee.
and the latest shareholder guidelines Members of senior management concerning executive remuneration.
attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year, such 2018 Meeting Attendance members included the Chairman, Maximum the Chief Executive Officer and the possible Actual Vice President of Human Resources.
Members Independent attendance attendance No Director or senior executive is present Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director and Yes 3 3 at meetings when his or her own Committee Chairman remuneration arrangements are Graham Birch Non-Executive Director Yes 3 3 considered by the Committee unless Eileen Kamerick Non-Executive Director Yes 3 3 otherwise directed by the Committee.
Activity during the year Details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 77.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 73 Shareholder relations Principal shareholder contacts 2018 AGM Overview The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Notice of the 2018 AGM was circulated to The Company is fully committed to and the Chief Financial Officer are all shareholders at least 20 working days achieving an excellent relationship with available to discuss the concerns of prior to the meeting.
The Chairs of each shareholders.
Alternatively, of the Board Committees were available shareholders may discuss any matters at the AGM to answer questions.
A poll Responsibility for communications with of concern with the Companys Senior vote was taken on each of the resolutions shareholders on strategy and business Independent Director.
put to shareholders with results performance rests with the Chief announced shortly after the meeting Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Chief Executive Officer is and published on the Companys website.
Officer and the Head of Investor responsible for discussing strategy Relations.
with the Companys shareholders Further information on matters and conveying their views to the of particular interest to investors Communications with shareholders other members of the Board.
is available on the inside back cover with respect to the administration of and on the Companys website at shareholdings and matters of Other than through direct contact as www.
governance are co-ordinated by detailed in the table below, Directors the Company Secretary.
are kept informed of major shareholders views through copies of i relevant Shareholder contact in 2018 analysts and brokers briefings, ii The following table summarises voting recommendation reports issued the principal means by which by institutional investor agencies, and management communicated iii significant correspondence from with investors during the year: shareholders with respect to the business to be put to shareholder vote at General Meetings.
Date Event January and April, Conference calls following the Quarterly Production Report July, October Chairman and the newly appointed Senior Independent Director met with a number of major investors February BMO Global Metals & Mining Conference 2018 Annual Results presentation UK Roadshow March Citi Resources Conference May BoA Merrill Lynch Global Metals, Mining and Steel Conference Annual General Meeting August 2018 Half-Yearly Results presentation September UK Roadshow Denver Gold Forum November Capital Markets Day December Scotia Capital Conference An extensive Investor Relations schedule resulted in management holding over 100 investor meetings during the year.
