56 Hochschild Mining PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Eduardo Hochschild Ignacio Bustamante Dr Graham Birch Jorge Born Jr. Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Experience Experience Experience Experience Eduardo Hochschild joined the Ignacio joined the Board as CEO Graham joined the Board in 2011.
Jorge joined the Board in 2006.
Hochschild Group in 1987 as in April 2010 having previously Up until his retirement in 2009, Previously, he served as a Director Safety Assistant at the Arcata served as Chief Operating he was a Director of BlackRock and Deputy Chairman of Bunge unit, becoming Head of the Officer and General Manager of Commodities Investment Trust Limited having served as Head of Hochschild Mining Group in 1998 the Groups Peruvian operations.
plc and manager of BlackRocks European operations from 1992 and Chairman in 2006.
Eduardo He served as Chief Financial World Mining Trust and Gold and to 1997 and as Head of its UK is the Companys majority Officer of Cementos Pacasmayo General Unit Trust.
He previously operations from 1989 to 1992. shareholder with a c. 51% interest.
A. an affiliate of the worked at Kleinwort Benson Other Directorships Company, between 1998 and Securities and Fleming Ord Other Directorships Commercial: Consult & Co. 2003, and as a Board member Minnett before joining Mercury Commercial: Cementos President and CEO, Caldenes from 2003 to 2007.
Asset Management in 1993, Pacasmayo S. A.
Chairman, S. A. Dufry AG Zurich Deputy where he launched a number COMEX Peru, Banco fide Crdito Other Directorships Chairman.
of mining and natural resources del Per.
In 1997, Mercury Asset Non-Profit: Bunge and Born Scotiabank Peru S. A.
Management was acquired by Non-Profit: UTEC Chairman, Charitable Foundation Merrill Lynch Investment TECSUP, Sociedad Nacional fide President.
Managers which was itself Minera y Petrleo, Conferencia eventually acquired by BlackRock Episcopal Peruana.
Graham has a PhD in mining geology from Imperial College London.
Other Directorships Non-Profit: Lawes Agricultural Trust.
Balance of independence Tenure of Independent Audit Committee on the Board Directors CSR Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Independent Directors 5 0-3 years 3 Non-independent Directors 3 3-6 years 1 6 years 1 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Eileen Kamerick Michael Rawlinson Dionisio Romero Sanjay Sarma Raj Bhasin Independent Senior Independent Paoletti Independent Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Eileen joined the Board on Michael joined the Dionisio was appointed to Sanjay joined the Board Raj joined Hochschild 1 November 2016 having Board in 2016 and the Board on 1 January on 1 January 2017 and is in October 2007 as formerly served as CFO of was appointed Senior 2018 as a nominee of the Professor of Mechanical Company Secretary ConnectWise.
Previously Independent Director on Companys majority Engineering at and UK Counsel.
Eileen served as CFO 1 January 2018.
Dionisio is Massachusetts Institute He is a solicitor and in various industries was formerly the Global Chairman and CEO of of Technology MIT and Chartered Secretary including healthcare Co-Head of Mining and Credicorp and its the Vice President for with over 20 years consultancy Press Ganey Metals at Barclays subsidiary, Banco fide Open Learning at MIT.
experience gained in Associates, investment Investment Bank Crdito del Peru BCP, Sanjay was the founder FTSE-listed companies.
bank Houlihan Lokey 2013-2017 and prior Perus largest bank.
Mr and Chief Technology Raj previously served and BP Amoco Americas.
to that, he worked at a Romero has served as a Officer of OATSystems as Deputy Company Eileen lectures on number of banks as a board member of BCP subsequently acquired Secretary and corporate finance and corporate financier and since 2003 and was by Checkpoint Systems Commercial Counsel governance at several research analyst.
Most appointed Vice Chairman and has worked at at Burberry Group plc.
recently he helped found in 2008 and Chairman Schlumberger Oilfield the boutique investment in 2009.
Other Directorships bank, Liberum Capital, in Sanjay also advises Commercial: Associated Other Directorships 2007.
Prior to that Michael several national Banc-Corp.
Chair of Commercial: Numerous worked at Flemings and governments and global the Nominating and directorships held Cazenove.
Governance Committee including of Credicorp and member of the Other Directorships Group companies El Other Directorships Compensation Commercial: Capital Pacifico-Peruano Suiza Commercial: Top Flight Committee, Legg Mason Drilling Limited.
Closed End Mutual Funds Reaseguros S. A. and Non-Profit: G1S US and Chair of the Audit El Pacifico Vida Cia.
edX, the entity set up by Committee, AIG Funds fide Seguros y Reaseguros MIT and Harvard to and Anchor Series Trust S. A. Alicorp S. A.
A, facilitate the distribution Audit Committee Inversiones Centenario of free online education Financial Expert.
and Sierra Metals Inc. Also worldwide.
serves on the boards of Non-Profit: Eckerd other Grupo Romero Connects.
