58 Hochschild Mining PLC SENIOR MANAGEMENT Ramn Bara Isac Burstein Oscar Garcia Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Vice President, & Business Development Brownfield Exploration Experience Experience Experience Ramn Bara was appointed CFO of Isac Burstein joined the Group as a geologist Oscar Garcia was promoted to the position of Hochschild Mining on 1 June 2010.
Prior to his current position, Isac VP, Brownfield Exploration on 1 January 2019 appointment, he served in various positions served as Manager for Project Evaluation, having joined Hochschild Mining in 2007 as an with other companies associated with the Exploration Manager for Mexico, and Ore Control geologist.
He has previously Group, namely CEO of Fosfatos del Pacifico Exploration Geologist.
Isac assumed worked at Hochschild as Corporate Manager S. A.
General Manager for Hochschild Minings responsibility for the Groups exploration for Underground Geology, Ore Control and Mexican operations and Deputy CEO and activities in February 2014.
Isac holds a BSc in Brownfield Exploration.
Prior to Hochschild CFO of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Prior to joining Geological Engineering from the Universidad Mining, Oscar worked as a geologist at Barrick Hochschild, Ramon was a Vice President of Nacional fide Ingeniera, an MSc in Geology Gold, Lonrho Mining Group and Compaia Debt Capital Markets with Deutsche Bank and from the University of Missouri and an MBA Minera Aguilar.
Oscar qualified as a geologist a sales analyst with Banco Santander.
Ramn from Krannert School of Management, at the Universidad Nacional fide Cordoba and is an economics graduate of Universidad fide Purdue University.
holds a postgraduate degree from the Lima and holds an MBA from Columbia Universidad fide Santiago fide Chile.
Ramon serves as an Independent Director of Goldspot Discoveries Inc, a technology company that supports mineral exploration activity in which Hochschild Mining is an investor.
Eduardo Landin Jos Augusto Palma Eduardo Villar Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Legal Vice President, & Corporate Affairs Human Resources Experience Experience Experience Eduardo Landin was appointed COO of Jos Augusto Palma joined Hochschild in July Eduardo Villar has been with the Group since Hochschild Mining in March 2013.
Eduardo 2006 after a 13-year legal career in the United 1996.
Prior to his current position, he served as joined Hochschild in January 2008 as General States, where he was a partner at the law firm Human Resources Manager, Deputy HR Manager of the Companys operations in of Swidler Berlin, and subsequently at the Manager and Legal Counsel.
In 2011 he became General World Bank.
He also served two years in the law degree from the Universidad fide Lima and Manager of Projects with direct responsibility Government of Peru.
Jos has law degrees an MBA from the Universidad Peruana fide over the development of the Inmaculada and from Georgetown University and the Ciencias Aplicadas.
In addition, Eduardo has Crespo Advanced Projects.
Before joining Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico and is postgraduate qualifications in Business from Hochschild, Eduardo held the position of admitted to practise as a lawyer in Mexico IESE Business School and Harvard Business Corporate Development Manager at and New York.
Prior to his current role, Jos School and in Human Resources from London Cementos Pacasmayo and, prior to that, he served as VP Legal.
Mr Palma serves as Business School and the University of worked in the Peruvian Ministry of Energy and Vice Chairman of the Board of the Mining, Michigan.
Eduardo began his career at Repsol S. A Electricity and Petroleum Industry Association where he worked for over 10 years in England, of Peru.
Eduardo is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer and holds a B. Eng Honours in Mechanical Engineering from Imperial College, London and an Executive MBA from the Universidad fide Piura, Peru.
