Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 07 Outputs The ongoing success of our business model allows us to invest in the skills and training of our employees, redistribute profit into our host communities through a wide variety of programmes and deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
Discover Employees We have expertise in discovering and developing The success of our business model geological districts.
Our brownfield team believe helps us to provide holistic growth, that there is still potential across all our property adequate compensation and proper 98% to provide a platform for long-term production as working conditions.
We aim to empower WORKFORCE well as optimising existing ounces in the portfolio.
our employees with constant learning TRAINED IN 2018 Furthermore, our dynamic low risk, greenfield opportunities and new challenges in a strategy is drilling a number of prospects in positive, healthy and safe work environment.
several countries across the Americas.
In addition, there is an ongoing recognition that all must have opportunities to contribute to a better world through Develop direct initiatives and volunteer work.
We are able to execute development of our discoveries in a short space of time.
Our flagship Inmaculada deposit was first drilled in early 2009 Communities and society and production was achieved in June 2015 with Hochschild has been able to invest in a the mine being ramped up to full production number of local programmes focusing on within three months.
The operation was also our core themes of education, health and 26% designed and built in a modular fashion to socio-economic development and allowing WORKFORCE FROM facilitate future cost-effective expansion us to operate collaboratively with our LOCAL COMMUNITIES potential.
Hochschilds ability to develop neighbours in the Southern Peru Cluster projects in remote locations and high altitudes for more than 50 years.
We have also been remains a key competitive advantage.
able to deliver employment and business opportunities whilst retaining respect for cultural traditions and the environment.
Extract We have developed a unique in-depth knowledge base of the technical challenges inherent in Shareholders our ore bodies as well as of the environment We are committed to our aims of profitable and jurisdiction where we operate.
This has operations, a strong reputation and stability.
resulted in us consistently meeting annual We believe that if we can deliver sustainable $10m production targets, executing significant low-cost growth throughout the cycle and RECOMMENDED FINAL cost reduction programmes, increasing our therefore generate excess cashflow, we can DIVIDEND FOR THE FULL YEAR 2018 resource base, and achieving positive results use that to reward shareholders and other from brownfield exploration at existing mines.
Since the middle of 2016 we In addition, our innovation programme is have paid out $41 million in equity dividends.
highlighting technological advances and how they can be applied to our operations.
