HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 16 Strategic priorities Strategic priorities The following strategic priorities are pursued in all of our segments and support our four global business lines.
These priorities will retain and advance our existing core strengths and ensure we approach future growth initiatives with the appropriate focus to meet our vision to become the worlds most trusted provider of home repairs and improvements.
Overview Results We recruit and retain the right people in the right roles to ensure we have the expertise to meet both regulatory requirements and the exacting and changing needs of our customers.
Detailed succession plans and fulfilling careers will lay the foundation to take advantage of the opportunities in our four business lines.
FY18: 5,855 employees FY17: 5,008 employees Risks: Regulation and customer focus 8, Recruitment and talent 9 KPI s : Customers We have active business development exploring new partnerships FY18: 570 partners and we will continue to evaluate and seek to renew our existing ones.
FY17: 500 partners Our North American pipeline is particularly strong and we expect to complete tranche 2 of the DPS acquisition in autumn 2018.
We intend to enter new territories by agreeing joint ventures with utilities.
Risks: Market disruption 1, Commercial partnerships 2, KPI s : Affinity partner households International development 3 Managing a large claims network and ensuring we get the right FY18: 7,000 engineers & franchisees, tradesperson to the right place at the right time is one of our core 58k Home Experts strengths and a key barrier to entry.
We optimise our Membership FY17: 5,400 engineers & franchisees, networks for subcontractors and directly employed engineers.
We 46k Home Experts will recruit and grow our Home Experts tradespeople.
Risks: Market disruption 1, Recruitment and talent 9 KPI s : Tradespeople Our customers, partners and tradespeople continue to demand greater interaction online.
We are committed to providing the smoothest customer experience and to developing products that complement our existing businesses and meet the changing demands and needs of our customers.
Risks: IT investment 10, Digital and innovation 11 KPI s : Policies HomeServe has a disciplined approach to financial resource management and all investment decisions are assessed against strict criteria.
Capital projects will drive a better customer experience and ensure we scale efficiently.
We have options to acquire customers organically through successful marketing programmes and we have proved that we can integrate complementary bolt on M&A effectively in our membership business.
M&A also presents an opportunity to accelerate our progress in newer business lines such as Home Experts or HVAC.
KPI s : Financial metrics including adjusted Risks: Financial 12 PBT and net debt: EBITDA Manage and extend Deploy our financial Innovate and Build our network long-term affinity Invest in our people resources digitise of tradespeople parenteships HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 17 Strategic priorities Update How this helps achieve our vision In 2017 we established a People Committee chaired by our Senior Ensuring our people are skilled, experienced and Independent Director and we appointed a Director of Group have the opportunity to develop their own careers Talent to ensure this receives the required focus.
We value the is fundamental to HomeServes success.
Talented efforts of all of our staff and are proud of the employer awards we people who embrace our values and our sharp win.
customer focus will drive the business forward.
KPI s : Customers For more detail on our people priorities see page 22 Our partnerships are a key competitive barrier We sign the majority of our new partnerships in North America and in FY18 we were pleased to sign Octopus Energy and E. ON in to entry.
Growing our businesses in existing territories and expanding to new areas with utility the UK presenting an exciting opportunity in the energy space.
We continue to renew partnerships in all of our businesses.
With such brands that customers recognise and trust is a wide portfolio of partners there will now inevitably be a small fundamental to realising our growth ambitions in Membership.
degree of churn but we will seek to grow the overall base.
KPI s : Affinity partner households Our Operating review begins on page 34 We will extend our reach and broaden our Our Membership businesses completed over 2.6m jobs in FY18.
product offering in all countries in which we Our 100% ownership of Checkatrade has enabled us to commit operate.
Large networks of skilled and reliable financial backing to grow the network more quickly e. g. by tradespeople and easily accessible, independent allowing monthly rather than annual payments.
Habitissimo online customer reviews will increase consumer generated a record number of leads and is developing product trust and satisfaction.
and pricing initiatives to grow their networks.
KPI s : Tradespeople Our Home Experts initiatives are detailed on page 44 A wider reach and high customer trust and More customers are choosing to purchase, manage and claim satisfaction is only possible if we provide solutions online.
A new App has proven popular in the UK and our that meet the changing needs of consumers.
development of a wifi LeakBot will provide greater reach and scale.
Our plans to develop an online, on demand Home Experts solution were boosted by accelerating our 100% ownership of Checkatrade and will enable us to reach a more tech-reliant demographic.
LeakBot and Home Experts detail is in the Operating KPI s : Policies review beginning on page 34 Strong financial management and investment We continue to manage resources effectively and evaluate discipline will ensure we are well placed to investment opportunities.
Having completed significant be able to take advantage of our growth programmes in recent years we now see capital expenditure opportunities.
reducing in the near term.
We will continue to evaluate M&A opportunities.
KPI s : Financial metrics including adjusted Our financial review begins on page 46 PBT and net debt: EBITDA HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 18 18 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Page header Fix it... better than patching it up HomeServes commitment to offer customers the best technical solution.
My wife and I have small children.
This is the main reason why we signed up to a water leaks policy with HomeServe.
Just a few months after we subscribed, we had to call them up because of a massive water leak.
We were pleasantly surprised by HomeServes handling of this emergency: they reacted fast and we really appreciated the efficiency of the engineers.
We got our water supply back in no time and we were able to get on with our family life.
A year later, the same pipe sprang another leak.
HomeServe sent an engineer round quickly, and he suggested changing the pipe rather than patching it up, to avoid further problems with the damaged pipe.
This was a more complex, more expensive option: it cost over 1000 Euros which HomeServe paid.
We didnt have to pay a thing!
Even better, we can now be sure that the problem has been solved for good.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 19 19 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Rparer mieux que panser Comment HomeServe sengage toujours proposer la meilleure solution technique ses clients.
Ma femme et moi avons des enfants en bas-ge.
Cest notamment pour a que lon a pris un contrat fuites deau chez HomeServe.
Quelques mois seulement aprs avoir souscrit jai d les appeler pour une grosse fuite.
Nous avons eu une belle surprise en constatant la grande matrise fide lurgence fide HomeServe : lintervention a t rapide et nous avons apprci lefficacit des prestataires.
Lalimentation deau a t rtablie rapidement et notre vie fide famille a pu reprendre son cours rapidement.
Un an plus tard, une seconde fuite sest dclare sur la mme canalisation.
HomeServe nous a envoy un prestataire rapide-ment qui a prconis un changement fide canalisation plutt quun simple colmatage pour viter fide futures pannes sur la partie vtuste.
Une option plus complexe et plus coteuse : plus fide 1000 que HomeServe a pris en charge entirement.
Nous navons rien eu payer !
Mieux, nous avons eu lassurance que le problme tait dfinitivement rgl.
M. R. Guessas, Vnissieux France Discover how life keeps moving for our Customers at homeserve.
