HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 114 Directors report Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Management report The Directors report, together with the Strategic report set out on pages 2 to 51 form the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Annual Report Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Information Location in Annual Report Likely future developments in the business of the Company or its subsidiaries Page 9 Employees employment of disabled persons, employee engagement and Page 22 to 23 policies Corporate governance statement Page 54 to 76 Directors details including changes made during the year Pages 61 and 64 to 66 Related party transactions Note 46 on page 205 Diversity Page 22 Share capital Note 25 on page 177 Going concern and viability statement Page 51 Employee share schemes including long-term incentive schemes Note 29 on pages 179 to 182 Financial instruments: Information on the Groups financial instruments and risk Note 24 on pages 172 to 177 management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging Disclosure of information to Auditor Page 118 Results and Dividends The Directors are recommending the payment on 2 August 2018 of a final dividend of 14.4p per ordinary share to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 July 2018 which, together with the net interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share paid on 5 January 2018, results in a total net dividend for the year of 19.1p per share FY17: 15.3p.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 115 Directors report Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting Global tonnes of CO2e Global tonnes of CO2e 1 FY18 FY17 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 11,366 8,835 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,423 3,656 Total 13,789 12,491 Tonnes of CO e per thousand customers 1.65 1.60 2 1 Data excludes Checkatrade, a company only fully owned from November 2017.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 as amended in August 2013.
The reporting boundary used for collation of the above data is consistent with that used for consolidation purposes in the financial statements.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the above disclosures.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Rules on appointment and replacement of Directors Apart from Martin Bennett who is stepping down from the Board, all the Directors will seek election or re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the recommendations of the Code.
A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such meetings.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual seeks election at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in the Articles of Association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were in place during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Articles of Association The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on request.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 116 Directors report Directors report continued Capital Structure Details of the issued share capital, together with details of shares issued during the year, are set out in note 25.
There is one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29.
No votes are cast in respect of the shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and dividends are waived.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and any relevant authority of the Company in general meeting, the Company has authority to issue new shares.
The AGM held in 2017 authorised the Directors to allot shares in the capital of the Company within certain limited circumstances and as permitted by the Companies Act.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Authority to purchase shares The Company was authorised at the 2017 AGM to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles of Association.
No shares were purchased during the year and no shares are held in Treasury.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors and employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting The 2018 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 20 July 2018.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 117 Directors report Fixed Assets Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets amounted to 11.0m FY17: 8.0m during the year.
Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as at 31 March and 22 May 2018 are set out in the Remuneration report on page 107.
None of the Directors serving at the year end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
Substantial Shareholdings As far as the Directors are aware, no person or company had a beneficial interest in 3% or more of the voting share capital at 31 March and 22 May 2018, except for the following: As at 31 March 2018 As at 22 May 2018 Name ordinary shares % ordinary shares % Invesco Limited 45,708,633 13.9 45,708,633 13.9 Richard Harpin 39,684,114 12.0 39,684,172 12.0 Baillie Giord & Co 17,124,224 5.2 17,124,224 5.2 Woodford Investment Management LLP 16,560,085 5.0 16,560,085 5.0 1 Includes an indirect interest of 28,500 shares Taxation status The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
By Order of the Board Anna Maughan Company Secretary 22 May 2018 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 118 Statements of responsibilities Statements of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor and authorising the Board to fix its remuneration will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 119 Statements of responsibilities Website publication The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report, including the financial statements, is made available on a website.
Financial statements are published on the Companys website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website http: www.
com is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board Richard Harpin Chief Executive Officer 22 May 2018 David Bower Chief Financial Officer 22 May 2018
