HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Viability statement Viability statement Various severe but plausible stress The business is geographically In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of tests have been performed both on spread across the UK, Continental the UK Corporate Governance Code individual and combined scenarios Europe and North America: in 2014, the Directors have assessed which modelled: each established territory, the the viability of the Group over a three business has long-term contractual year period to 31 March 2021.
The the impact of the loss of a key relationships with utility businesses Directors believe that a three year commercial partner providing access to in excess of 110m forward looking period is appropriate households under Affinity Partner as it is aligned to the timeframe the impact of a reduced customer brands.
Retention rates are high that management focus upon, the focus and a resultant reduction in across all established businesses, performance period in respect of customer satisfaction and retention resulting in stable and recurring cash the long-term incentive scheme flows from a large, diverse customer for senior management and it is the market disruption from a new base.
period of assessment for recoverable competitor values of cash generating units.
Considering the Groups current the impact of new or amended position, the principal risks and The Group has a formalised process regulation and legislation the Boards assessment of the of budgeting, reporting and review Groups future, the Directors have along with procedures to forecast its the impact of losing a key a reasonable expectation that the profitability, capital position, funding underwriting relationship Group will be able to continue in requirement and cash flows.
These operation and meet its liabilities as plans provide information to the Stress tests indicated that no single they fall due over a period of at least Directors which are used to ensure scenario would impact the viability of three years to 31 March 2021. the adequacy of resources available the Group over the next three years.
for the Group to meet its business As might be expected the impact Going concern objectives, both on a short-term increases if different risks were to The Directors continue to adopt the and strategic basis.
The plans for materialise simultaneously, however going concern basis in preparing the the period commencing on 1 April it is considered unlikely that such financial statements.
Please refer to 2018 were reviewed by the Executive a scenario would occur given the page 140.
Committee in February and then nature and relative diversification approved by the Board in March 2018. of the business.
In such scenarios HomeServe would also be able In making this statement, the Board to take decisions to protect the carried out a robust assessment of profitability of the business over a the principal risks facing the Group.
three year period by, for example, The Principal Risks and Uncertainties scaling back marketing investment to sets out the principal strategic, offset any reductions in income.
operational and financial risks which could threaten HomeServes The Directors assessment has business model, future performance been made with reference to the and growth plans and its liquidity or geographical spread of HomeServes solvency.
HomeServe has a robust operations and its strong financial risk management framework which position resulting from a large addresses its risk appetite and risk policy.
All major risks are scored portfolio of commercial partnerships based on their potential impact and and high customer retention.
likelihood and are reviewed regularly by the Audit & Risk Committee.
Read more about the potential impact of principal risks and uncertainties on page 26.
52 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Quick off the mark How HomeServe defied expectation My boiler was always on and working overtime.
Costing me money I couldnt work it out.
Until I realised there was a leak.
I knew I was with HomeServe But I never knew just how fast they could be!
I just couldnt believe how quick and easy it all was.
Boiler and day back on track!
Mr Albaba Birmingham Discover how life keeps moving for our Customers at homeserve.
com customerstories 53 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Contents Governance 54 Corporate governance statement 54 Chairmans overview 56 Compliance and other statements 57 Application of principles 60 Relations with shareholders 61 Leadership 64 Board of Directors and Executive team 68 Eectiveness 70 Nomination Committee report 72 Accountability 76 Audit & Risk Committee report 84 Directors remuneration report 84 Annual statement 86 Directors remuneration policy 97 Annual report on remuneration 114 Directors report 118 Statements of responsibilities 120 Independent Auditors report
