H HomeServ omeServe pl e plc Annual R c Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc coun ounts 2018 ts 2018 12 12 S Our business model trategic report P Oage header ur business model What we do HomeServe delivers home repairs and improvements to help people run their homes more easily.
Our vision is to be the worlds most trusted provider of home repairs and improvements.
We have five key sources of value, which give us the capabilities we need to build four global business lines.
These are in different stages of development in different geographies.
Membership HVAC Home Experts Smart Home H HomeServ omeServe pl e plc Annual R c Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc coun ounts 2018 ts 2018 13 13 S Our business model trategic report How do we do it?
We have five key sources of value for our stakeholders.
These are distinct to us and crucial to the success of our business.
We have listed against each source of value the KPIs that measure our progress and the most relevant risks.
Our most established route to market is through long-term, exclusive partnerships with utilities, heating manufacturers, insurance companies and specialist service providers.
We have a substantial network of over 570 utility partners, and considerable expertise in managing these partnerships for mutual benefit.
Our utility partners earn commission on every policy we secure through them and benefit from our long-term approach to delivering value.
In highly concentrated markets such as France and Spain, we work with a small number of very large partners, whereas in the fragmented North American market we work with a wide range of small and large partners.
HomeServe acts as an insurance intermediary, and does not take any material insurance risk.
Our Membership products are underwritten by independent third party underwriters, who are also important long-term partners.
KPI: Affinity partner households Principal risks: Market disruption 1, Commercial partnerships 2, International development 3 We have three key areas of expertise.
Innovative product design, where our expertise is focused on adapting to the needs of individual markets to provide products that customers value and use: responding efficiently to market or regulatory change: and creating, developing, testing, launching and assessing the performance of our products in a streamlined fashion Data-rich marketing, optimised across a range of channels including direct mail, contact centres and online, with sophisticated monitoring of campaign paybacks An increasingly powerful global brand that complements our partner brands.
KPIs: Customers, Policies Principal risks: Market disruption 1, Digital and innovation 11 Putting the customer at the heart of everything we do is the first and most important of our corporate values.
This shines through in the way that our local contact centres operate to handle customer claims and enquiries, and also in the way our engineers behave in customers homes.
We engage the best people right across our business and provide them with the tools and technology they need to do a great job.
We have internal measures for customer satisfaction in each of our businesses and we are proud of the external awards we win in each of our businesses.
KPI: Retention rate Principal risks: Market disruption 1, Regulation and customer focus 8, Digital and innovation 11 We rely on our local networks to deliver consistently high service in our customers homes and we have many years of experience and expertise in managing these networks.
We devote considerable time to recruiting and maintaining those in the network and to providing the infrastructure and technology required for them to operate efficiently.
In our Membership business we optimise our mix of directly employed engineers and sub-contractors and in our Home Experts business we are focused on delivering rapid growth in the number of tradespeople we work with to deliver on demand repairs and improvements.
KPI: Tradespeople Principal risks: Market disruption 1, Recruitment and talent 9 Our business is predictable, sustainable and cash generative.
Our revenue streams are largely subscription based and we invest in our people, our network, our brand, our partnerships and our technology systems and processes to generate growth.
We have opportunities to grow organically and through acquisition in all of our markets and have a strong track record of successful acquisition and integration.
To grow our business, we invest in our key sources of value, for the benefit of multiple commercial stakeholders.
KPIs: Adjusted PBT, Net Debt: EBITDA See Glossary on p209 for full detail of our alternative performance measures.
Principal risks: Recruitment and talent 9, Financial 12 See page 15 for our KPIs See page 26 for our Principal risks and uncertainties.
Local Customer Financial resources Marketing Partnerships networks service and expertise HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 14 14 Our business model Our business model continued Our principal stakeholders, and why they benefit from working with us.
HomeServe helps me run my home more easily.
With HomeServe cover, if something goes wrong, I call them up and theyll fix it.
As a utility company, it makes sense to work with HomeServe to deliver top quality home assistance to our customers.
In partnership with HomeServe, we can provide the services our customers expect and generate value for our company.
HomeServe places great emphasis on its customers and I feel empowered to deliver great service when Im in customers homes at their time of need HomeServe is a great place to work.
The company is growing fast and offers me opportunities to develop my skill set and build my career.
HomeServe people really care about the communities around them, and take on community projects with commitment and enthusiasm.
HomeServe is a well-run, cash-generative business with attractive, sustainable growth prospects.
Value creation The value we create for all of our stakeholders has the potential to be compounded as we expand our four business lines.
Consumers may transition to become customers of more than one HomeServe business.
For example, Membership subscribers may use on demand Home Experts to access a broader range of trades, or install a new boiler through HVAC Tradespeople can find support and opportunity at HomeServe throughout their working lives, whether as employees or small business owners Partnerships may expand, for example by creating a joint venture in a new geography.
Investors Communities Employees Tradespeople Partners Customers
