16 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 17 Our Strategy Invest for efficiency, growth, service and Investing in our people: over OUR STRATEGY disaster recovery 1,600 highly-trained specialist Howdens strategy is focused on kitchens and Our business benefits from the investment we make related products.
Its successful execution depends in developing our people.
When we invest in the kitchen designers helping builders on our ability to manage the complex combination right people, we can grow our own leaders.
Leaders and end-users of numerous skills and products in a simple and who already understand the strategic importance Customer efficient way.
This ability has been developed since of the Howdens business model and culture.
Our service we started operations in 1995. investment in development also gives valuable opportunities to our best people and helps us to Invest for growth retain them.
Our strategy is to invest for future growth.
In order Prudent financial management to deliver the potential we see in our market and We do ensure stock availability in depots as we expand, Our strategy is to commit to prudent financial what we say we have invested around 220 million in the past management.
We maintain sufficient cash balances four years in our manufacturing and distribution to to allow us to meet the requirements of the working improve efficiency, provide for disaster recovery and capital cycle, taking into account the marked increase capacity in anticipation of the continuing seasonality of the business and returning surplus growth of the business, as well as implement cash to shareholders as appropriate, which has upgrades of our digital capabilities.
been via share repurchases and dividend payments.
We discuss our uses of cash in more detail in our Expand our depot network financial review on pages 27 to 28.
Our dividend Our strategy is to expand our depot network and policy is on page 27. expand the range of products we can sell to the builder, increasing our total addressable market.
Actions in 2018 While we take account of market conditions in We have transferred our main distribution planning the roll-out of new depots, we continue to operations to a 650,000 square foot national see untapped requirement by builders for a local distribution centre, built in 2017 at Raunds, near and convenient service in much of the country.
This Northampton, replacing our old distribution centre need is illustrated by the fact that when we add a on the outskirts of the town.
We have also made new depot near to an existing one, we see overall significant, ongoing investments in Howdens sales increase in the area within a short time.
systems infrastructure to ensure that our processes We believe that there is some way to go before are robust and efficient.
we have saturated the UK market and we see Other activities included developing a new website, continue to see significant opportunities to grow our and introducing new products such as worktops, business, with scope for up to 850 depots, some More local depots and more new oak cabinets and pre-finished doors that meet of which will utilise a smaller depot footprint.
We products that meet the builders the builders constantly evolving needs.
These all discuss our expansion plans in more detail in our constantly evolving needs support our strategy of growing the business.
People Development Our strategy is to develop our people.
Howdens Maintain cash success is based on customer service: we do balances that allow what we say and say what we mean.
We seek to us to meet the ensure that everyone in the business practises this requirements of the principle, and stays focused on this and on all the working capital cycle other elements of our culture.
Return surplus Helping the local builder to solve cash to shareholders problems in an increasingly complex and interconnected world... advice and aftersales to make a home to be proud of.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 18 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 19 Chief Executives statement Pressing ahead This is my first review as Chief Executive of Howdens since taking over from Matthew Ingle in April More information about our financial performance Introducing new product ranges, including 18 2018.
Howdens knows its objectives: to help our trade customers achieve exceptional results for can be found in the Review of Operations and new kitchen ranges, new worktops, doors and their customers and to profit from doing so.
When our customers succeed, we succeed.
Finance starting on page 27. hardware.
New product development continues to be essential as tastes and fashions in Investment kitchens change rapidly and these are now being researched and products tested through a new We have continued to invest where necessary to Our model is a powerful combination of locally Trade Service and Convenience: Depots located Product Development Centre: and support our plans for the business.
Investments empowered depot management teams served by a where our customers need them: monthly account made or completed include: Relaunching the website onto a new scalable dedicated supply chain, which is both cost effective facilities: product in stock to get the job done and responsive platform, allowing our trade and critical to the success of our in-stock offer.
including appliances, joinery, flooring and hardware.
Increasing our distribution capability with a customers and end consumers to browse our A design service to help customers choose and successful transition into a new 650,000 product offering more easily, using their choice A key feature of Howdens success is our trade plankitchens.
ft. warehousing facility in Raunds, of device.
The migration was completed with customer focus, which underpins everything we Northamptonshire.
The first phase of this new no adverse effects and weekly traffic, of which do.
We believe the best way to source and install a Product Leadership: Product design and testing facility was operational during our peak Period 11 more than half is now by smartphone, has been kitchen is to work with your local tradesperson as facilities ensure that we offer the right product styles trading period and delivered 100% on time in full growing strongly.
This investment has also made kitchen installation requires professional skills and that are attractive to consumers: designed to be during that time: us more visible to end consumers earlier in their the purchasing decision can be both complex and trade quality and easy to fit with the builders in mind Opening 33 UK depots during 2018, an increase kitchen design and purchasing journey.
The installation is often linked to fit and forget quality.
on the 19 opened in the prior year and bringing other developments in the home, an extension or the total to 694.
Of the depots opened, 18 were Trade Value: At best local trade prices enabled by breaking through a wall to create open living space.
in the new format, which we describe on the in-house manufacturing, long-term key supplier The builder is best placed to co-ordinate the kitchen following page: agreements and a low-cost depot operating model.
project, backed by Howdens support and resources, throughout the entire process.
2018 PERFORMANCE Our depot managers set us apart.
They bring a We were pleased with the performance for the determination to succeed, have a can-do attitude, year and particularly progress in the second half.
are commercial and are incentivised to be so.
You In 2018, revenue increased by 7.7% and profit should be all of these things when dealing with before tax rose to 238.5m.
We ended the year entrepreneurial customers.
with 231m in cash, after investing 44m and returning 131m to shareholders.
All of this makes our business model very difficult both to replicate and compete against.
Our relationship with trade customers has three key facets, each underpinned by our entrepreneurial culture: Our new warehouse at Raunds, Northamptonshire Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 20 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 21 Chief Executives statement DEVELOPING THE BUSINESS We are prioritising a number of opportunities with potential to increase volumes and profits as described below.
New depot format and roll out We have put a new format into a limited number of depots which is designed to enable us to use depot space more efficiently and to give us the option of a smaller footprint.
The Howdens depot format has changed little since the business was founded in 1995, with an average size of 10,000 square feet.
Tests have shown there are ways to make material space utilisation improvements of around 25% through re-racking the warehouse section of the depot, with the potential to make productivity gains from reduced picking times.
This development has enabled us to rethink how we use the space in our depots, to create the best environment to do business with our customers.
Although it is still early, we are very encouraged by the opportunities that such a large space saving opens up.
With additional space available, we believe there is the potential to open up a number of new, smaller, infill depots of around 6,000 square feet, in rural In the new design, the front of house area is opened locations and big cities.
We expect to open around up to bring our depot staff into closer and more 40 new UK depots in 2019, including five in Northern immediate contact with customers.
With the new, smaller format the number also provides around double the space available to of UK depots could potentially reach around 850, display a wider range of kitchen designs.
In addition, compared to our previous view of 800. there is space for a small goods picking area behind the counter with an improved range of everyday essential items, including hardware, which is currently being trialled in 20 depots.
We believe this will encourage footfall and improve kitchen sales.
These depots have been designed to involve no material change to the fit-out cost of a new depot, which remains at around 350,000.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 22 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 23 Chief Executives statement continued We also see potential to use this format to update Aligned with kitchen range management a priority Whilst recognition of the Howdens brand is high our mature depots as a means to enhance volume is to be more disciplined about both the timing of within the trade, it is lower among consumers.
growth and improve operational efficiency at these discontinuation of underperforming ranges and how Howdens historically has not been well positioned depots.
We have converted three of our older depots we manage the clearance of stock from the business.
In 2019 our search and these are now trading in the new format.
A engine optimisation enhancements will move We are also reviewing the stocking points across further six depots will be converted by June 2019 Howdens.
com into more prominent positions, our product items, both locally in each depot and and we will trade these through peak period 11 raising brand awareness with consumers.
Our online in our primary warehouse locations.
By rebalancing trading before drawing any conclusions as to the search capabilities will become increasingly flexible our stock levels, we believe we can continue to sort of returns we can expect.
and consumers will be able to refine their style and offer the product options customers expect, while product selections more easily, enabling a more making it simpler for depots to deliver the service Range management and detailed discussion of their needs with their builders levels demanded.
replenishment We aim to reduce kitchen range complexity to help Digital development Trade customers are always on the move and many customers buying decisions and to access supply rely heavily on their mobile devices to manage We see digital as an enabler and reinforcer to the chain and other product handling benefits.
Our digital programme will put a strong local relationships between depots and tradespersons local depot in their pocket, enabling theirbuilders.
Having our product in-stock and available locally access to product information.
Later this year we has always been a key point of competitive We are building a digital platform which is purposed will test a secure customer-only area of the website difference and our customers tell us that high stock in the coming years to: where the tradespeople can manage their details, availability is vitally important in the running of view account information and pay bills at any time.
improve the interface between Howdens, Although timing is subject to the outcome of Brexit tradespeople and their customers 2019 improvements will allow faster access to Kitchens are becoming more complex and negotiations, we plan to open four depots in the and sharing of information supporting in-depot increase builder and consumer awareness consumers expect more choice.
The trend for Paris area this year to test our city strategy.
This digital interaction will also of Howdens to help our customers sell the more industrial look continues with the allow us to streamline our operating processes so Howdensproduct After a recent successful test in Paris, the operation combination of darker grey tones with warmer that we can respond more quickly to customers, will now be rebranded from Houdan to Howdens as timber becoming increasingly popular.
In addition, streamline operating processes, freeing up freeing up time for depot staff and customers to in the UK to gain advantage from the brand equity, alongside the popular grey and navy ranges, time for depot staff and customers to use usemoreproductively.
online search reputation and business efficiencies.
we have been introducing new charcoal ranges moreproductively In order to focus on France, I have decided to close and synthetic technologies continue to improve, International Operations our operations in Germany and the Netherlands offeringaffordable alternatives to real wood finishes.
Howdens has been trading in France since 2005, and the depots ceased trading in January 2019.
At the end of 2018 we had over 70 kitchen ranges on expanding the number of trial depots, since 2012, Depots in Belgium remain unchanged and continue offer, each comprised of about 100 product items.
into more areas of France, as well as into Belgium, to be managed by the French structure.
Five years ago, we had around 40 ranges.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank New kitchen ranges each year represent a By sticking to the fundamental operating principles everyone at Howdens for their support in making significant portion of sales as the product and values of the UK business, we believe that we this CEO transition happen so smoothly.
We need, however, to can have a successful business in France.
cautious on market conditions given economic manage our kitchen portfolio efficiently.
uncertainties, particularly the impact Brexit may The performance of the mature French depots is We have made some progress in this area: have, however I am encouraged by the start we have similar to the UK in terms of revenue per depot and last year we sold an increased amount of made to the year and with the response of the depot the average number of kitchens our customers buy.
new product with the introduction of 18 managers and the field teams to the initiatives I Customers appreciate the quality of the product, new kitchens compared with 27 in 2017. have outlined.
price, availability and knowledge of staff.
It also appears that depots in small clusters within cities We have a lot to look forward to over the coming perform better, partly due to word of mouth between years in Howdens and I am very proud to be customers, the ability to establish a quality, trusted leadingit.
brand locally and being able to develop the people necessary to run a Howdens depot.
In contrast to the UK, we have found that France Andrew Livingston has a lower proportion of integrated kitchens and a Chief Executive Officer higher proportion of kitchens that are sold through 27 February 2019 retail, DIY and specialist shops.
This provides us with potential growth opportunities as the kitchens purchased become more integrated and customers appreciate the benefits of buying a kitchen in a different way, the Howdens way.
24 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 25 Key Performance Indicators Strategy Risk Remuneration NON-FINANCIAL FINANCIAL DEPOT OPENINGS SALES GROWTH Why we measure it Why we measure it Progress Progress We believe that there is some way to go before the UK market We believe that there are considerable opportunities to grow We opened 33 new UK depots We saw total UK sales of 1.5bn in 2018, sales.
As sales grow, we believe there are economies of scale is saturated.
We continue to identify possible sites for new in 2018, and we expect to open representing annual growth of 7.7%.
which will also allow us to grow long-term profitability.
depots over the medium term whilst at the same time keeping around 45 depots in 2019. our model flexible, and allowing us to take account of economic Links to strategy, risks and remuneration conditions and phase the speed of our growth accordingly.
Failure to maximise growth potential.
Links to strategy risks and remuneration Depot staff bonuses are directly linked E E Ex x xp p pa a an n nd o d o d ou u ur U r U r UK d K d K fide e ep p po o ot n t n t ne e et t tw w wo o or r rk k k... to their depots sales.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX HEALTH & SAFETY Why we measure it Progress Profit before tax is a simple and widely understood Profits before tax went from 232.2m in 2017 to Why we measure it measure.
We consider that it gives a complete picture of our Progress 238.5m in 2018.
We have over 9,500 employees working in our factories, our performance as it includes all of our operating, selling and See page 48 logistics operation, our support sites and our depots and we distribution, admin and financing expenses.
need to keep them all safe at work.
Links to strategy, risks and remuneration Links to strategy risks and remuneration Failure to maximise growth potential.
O O Ou u ur r r p p pe e eo o op p pl l le.
e. e. Deterioration of model & culture.
Executive Committee and senior management bonuses are directly linked to PBT.
USE OF FSC CERTIFIED MATERIALS CASH Why we measure it We are committed to being a responsible business and we Why we measure it Progress use over a quarter of a million cubic metres of chipboard and We aim to generate sufficient cash throughout the operating Year end: MDF in our factories.
Ensuring that this all comes from FSC cycle to cover our investment needs, to retain at least one certified sources gives us assurance over the provenance of years working capital requirement and to pay a dividend in this material.
line with our stated dividend policy detailed on page 27.
Links to strategy risks and remuneration Links to strategy, risks and remuneration Pr Pr Pru u ud d fide e ent nt nt fi fi fina na nan n nc c ci i ia a al l l m m ma a ana na nag g ge e em m me e ent nt nt...
I I In n nv v five e es s st in o t in o t in ou u ur p r p r pe e eo o op p pl l le & in e & in e & inf f fr r ra a as s st t tr r ru u uc c ct t tu u ur r re e e... Continuity of Supply.
Re Re Ret t tu u ur r rn s n s n su u ur r rp p plu lu lus c s c s ca a as s sh t h t h to s o s o sh h ha a ar r re e eh h ho o ol l ld d fide e er r rs s s... Executive Committee and senior management bonuses are directly linked to cash generationtargets.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 p48 p49 KPI 100% of woodbased material used in our 100% manufacturing processes from FSC certified sources for the last 5 years 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 33 36 27 19 33 26 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 27 Key Performance Indicators continued Review of Finance and Operations Strategy Risk Remuneration FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2018 Profit before and after tax The information presented here relates to the The net interest charge was 1.6m 2017: 2.2m, 52 weeks to 29 December 2018 and the 53 weeks reflecting a 2.3m 2017: 2.4m finance expense NON-FINANCIAL to 30 December 2017, unless otherwise stated.
Profit before tax, after including the 3.8m GMP equalisation charge, Revenue was 238.5m 2017: 232.2m.
Without the GMP equalisation charge, profit before tax would have Total Group revenue increased 107.5m to been 242.3m 2017: 232.2m.
Howden Joinery UK depot revenue rose PRODUCTION WASTE RECYCLING 7.7% to 1,477.3m 2017: 1,372.0.
UK revenue The tax charge was 48.1m 2017: 47.2m, increased by 6.3% on a same depot basis i. e. Why we measure it Progress representing an effective rate of tax of 20.2% 2017: One of the pillars of our business model is our efficient excluding depots opened in that year and the prior 98.5% of our production waste was recycled or 20.3%.
As a result, profit after tax was 190.4m production, which gives us a significant cost advantage.
See page 54 for more details.
Recycling as much of our waste as we can reduces our costs excludes the additional revenue from depots opened 100 and helps us to deliver long-term sustainable returns.
Reflecting the above and the reduced share count 80 following share repurchases, basic earnings per Links to strategy, risks and remuneration 60 % share were 31.3p 2017: 29.9p.
Revenue m 2018 2017 40 20 Group 1,511.3 1,403.8 Dividend 0 comprising: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Groups dividend policy is to target a dividend cover of between 2.5x and 3.0x, with one third Howden Joinery UK depots 1,477.3 1,372.0 of the previous years dividend being paid as an Howden Joinery continental interim dividend each year.
Europe depots 34.0 31.8 The Board has recommended to shareholders a Depot revenue in Continental Europe was 34.0m final dividend of 7.9p 2017: 7.5p, giving a total 2017: 31.8m.
On a local currency basis, sales at dividend for the year of 11.6p 2017: 11.1p, an our French depots increased by 4.4%, and by the increase of 4.5%.
This equates to a dividend cover same amount on a same depot basis, as there were of 2.7x 2017: 2.7x.
no new depots opened in 2017 or 2018.
The final dividend payment of 7.9p per share will, Gross Profit if approved by shareholders, be paid on 21 June Gross profit increased to 932.2m 2017: 888.4m.
2019, with an ex-dividend date of 23 May 2019 The gross profit margin of 61.7% 2017: 63.3% and a record date of 24 May 2019. was impacted by lower prices in the first quarter of 2018, as a result of giving depots more flexibility Cash over margin, and general cost inflation, with selling There was a net cash inflow from operating prices only being increased in April 2018. activities of 163.2m 2017: 176.7m.
Operating Profit Net working capital increased by 49.7m, as expected, mainly due to debtors that were up by Operating profit, including the one-off 3.8m 1 48.2m.
This was due to Period 11 trading ending GMP equalisation charge, rose to 240.1m in early November, allowing payments to fall into the 2017: 234.4m, giving an operating profit 2019 financial year, which started on 30 December margin of 15.9% 2017: 16.7%.
Stock increased 18.0m due to new kitchen Selling and distribution costs and administrative ranges and depot openings, partly offset by expenses were 692.1m 2017: 654.0m.
Capital expenditure on assets Costs increased, as expected, due to continued including depots, the new Raunds distribution investments in areas across the business, including centre and digital, totalled 44.3m 2017: 48.5m.
new depots, digital upgrades, the effects of moving Net tax paid was 45.4m 2017: 41.8m, dividends from our older distribution centre to Raunds and paid were 68.3m 2017: 68.4m and share the additional depreciation arising from recent repurchases totalled 62.2m 2017: 47.9m.
There was also the one-time GMP equalisation charge of 3.8m and the absence of the additional 8.0m of costs incurred in 2017 owing to the 53rd week of trading.
1 T he non-recurring Guaranteed Minimum pension GMP equalisation charge of 3.8m is in respect of equalising Guaranteed Minimum Pension entitlements between female and male members of the defined benefit DB pension plan between 1978 and 1997.
This is an issue that affects all UK DB pension plans, although it is only since the High Court ruling in a test case in October 2018 that there was some clarity as to the obligations which exist and the range of suitable ways in which to measure them.
Pr Pr Pru u ud d fide e ent nt nt fi fi fina na nan n nc c ci i ia a al l l m m ma a ana na nag g ge e em m me e ent nt nt... 97.0 97.9 97.7 97.3 98.5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 28 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 29 Review of Finance and Operations continued Overall, there was a net cash outflow of 9.8m, February 2017 share repurchase programme and Our model is a powerful combination of locally Manufacturing and leaving the Group with net cash of 231.3m at 30.0m of the March 2018 programme remains.
empowered depot management teams served by a logistics operations year end 30 December 2017: 241.1m net cash.
Shares that were bought in the market by our brokers dedicated supply chain, which is both cost effective Our UK-based manufacturing and logistics during 2018 were cancelled.
and critical to the success of our in-stock offer.
operations are vital in enabling us to supply our The Group reached agreement to extend its small builder customers from stock available existing bank facility until December 2023.
Following the Boards recent review, it has decided A key feature of Howdens success is our trade locally.
This requires us to have the scale, space to complete the remaining 30m of the 60m 2018 customer focus, which underpins everything we do.
and flexibility to respond to each depots individual Share repurchase share buyback programme and return a further needs, especially during our peak Period 11 UK depot rollout and operations 50m to shareholders through another share The Board targets a capital structure that is both trading, when sales are more than double the level purchase programme, over the next two years.
prudent and recognises the benefits of operational During 2018, 33 new depots were opened, bringing in other periods.
and financial leverage, and that, after considering the total number of depots trading at the end of the Pensions our capital requirements, will return surplus cash year to 694.
Of the new depots, 18 were in the new During 2018, a number of investment projects to shareholders as appropriate.
The Group has At 29 December 2018, the pension deficit shown format, described below.
Our account base was progressed, as follows: significant property leases for the depot network on the balance sheet was 36.0m 30 December approximately 466,000 accounts at year end, with and continues to have a material deficit in the Group 2017: 109.3m.
The reduction in the deficit was due revenue per account growing.
Our debt collection continued ramp up of the new cabinet production pension fund.
Taking into account this underlying to a 105.3m reduction in liabilities primarily due performance continues to be robust.
facilities at Howden and Runcorn sites: and level of gearing, the Board believes it is appropriate to an increase in the discount rate and a 42.2m increased distribution capability with the for the Group to be able to operate through the cash contribution, partly offset by a reduction in Product and marketing successful transition into a new warehousing annual working capital cycle without incurring assetreturns.
2018 saw the introduction of 18 new kitchen facility in Raunds, Northamptonshire, the first bankdebt.
ranges, across all price points, including 10 Shaker phase being 650,000 sq ft.
The new facility In July 2015, we announced that an agreement styles, four integrated handle and four Slab styles.
delivered 100% on time, in full, during Period 11, The Board regularly reviews the Groups cash had been reached with the Trustees in relation to At the end of 2018, more than 70 current kitchen the busiest time of the year balances in light of future investment opportunities, the schedule of payments towards the funding of ranges were on offer.
expected peak working capital requirements, trading the Groups defined benefit pension scheme deficit Continental Europe outlook and dividend payments.
It was agreed that the Group would Other new developments included: At the end of 2018, there were 24 depots across continue to make deficit contributions equivalent In February 2017, we announced an 80m share France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany.
a new grey oak cabinet to 35m per annum until 30 June 2017.
It was also repurchase programme, of which 32.1m was We believe there is the potential for a successful agreed that the Group would make an interim four thin laminate worktops and an extension remaining at the start of 2018.
In March 2018, we business based in France.
The French market has payment of 25m over the period July 2017 to ofour quartz worktop range announced a further share buyback programme of low penetration rates of integrated kitchens and June2018.
a new range of prefinished moulded and oak 60m to be completed during the following twoyears.
most kitchens are purchased through DIY outlets doors, which saves time for the builder On 28 June 2018, we announced that, following and specialist shops, which is similar to the way During 2018, the Group acquired 12.8m shares the triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme as at an expansion of our fire door range and firethe UK market was structured when Howdens was for a consideration of 62.2m.
This completed the 5 April 2017, we had reached agreement with the ratedhardware packs founded.
Based on the way depots perform in their Trustees of the defined benefit pension scheme in local areas we think the French trade customer and We continue to enhance the marketing of our relation to the schedule of payments required to consumer can see the benefits of buying a kitchen products and services, enabling our builder fund the scheme deficit.
We will make annual deficit though the trade.
We also believe that depots in Revenue m customers and their customers to see the full contributions of 30m per annum for up to five years small clusters within cities perform better, partly Howden Joinery UK depots breadth and depth of the Howdens offer.
Building until June 2023. due to word of mouth between customers and also Howden Joinery continental Europe depots on the success of the Trade Book, which was first because of our ability to build a local and trusted printed in 2017, a new Trade Book was published in The funding position will be monitored on an ongoing brand.
Clustering also helps to build the Howdens September, along with two new kitchen brochures basis, and deficit contributions will be suspended culture within our business teams.
We have published in February and September.
should the schemes funding position improve to at therefore decided to develop our operation in France least 100 percent of the schemes funding basis for by way of a City-based strategy.
Although timing is September also saw the launch of the new two consecutive months and resumed if the funding 98% subject to the outcome of Brexit negotiations, we www.
The new site can position subsequently falls back below 100 percent.
2% plan to open four more depots in Paris in 2019 as we be viewed on desktop, tablet and smart phone build the management capabilities required for any The agreement resulted in a contribution to the and offers customers improved product search further expansion.
Belgian depots continue to trade pension deficit in the financial year ended 29 andinformation.
34 and are run within the French field structure.
1,477 1,372 Later this year, we will test a secure customer-only The single depot operations in the Netherlands and area of the website where builders can access their OPERATIONAL REVIEW Germany were closed in January 2019. account details and interface more efficiently with Howdens knows its objective: to help our trade their local depot.
The new website, with our search customers achieve exceptional results for their engine optimisation, will be more prominent to customers and to profit from doing so.
When our end consumers and be more flexible with regard customers succeed, we succeed.
to style and product selections when choosing a 17 18 newkitchen.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 30 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 31 Review of Finance and Operations continued Principal exchange rates 2018 2018 2017 2017 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.34 1.27 1.29 1.34 CURRENT TRADING AND USE AND MANAGEMENT OF Euro 1.13 1.11 1.14 1.13 OUTLOOK FOR 2019 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, AND EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK Current trading The Group holds financial instruments for one Howden Joinery UK depots sales in the first two principal purpose: to finance its operations.
The periods of the new financial year to 23 February, Group does not currently use derivative financial increased by 4.0%, with one fewer trading day than instruments to reduce its exposure to interest or in 2018.
Adjusting for the one fewer trading day, exchange rate movements.
The Group finances its sales in 2019 would have been up 5.1%.
operations by using cash flows from operations, The Group has a committed, asset-backed, bank NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS On a same depot basis i. e. excluding depots and it has access to an asset-backed loan facility if facility which allows borrowing of up to a maximum of opened in the year and the prior year, UK revenue additional financing is required.
Treasury operations None of the new accounting standards that came 140m, dependent on the actual levels of stock and increased by 2.4%, or 3.5% adjusted for the one are managed within policies and procedures into effect during 2018 had a material implication trade debtors held at any time.
The facility was not fewer trading day.
The main potential risks for the Group.
used at any point during 2018 and has been renewed arising from the Groups financial instruments are and is now due to expire in December 2023.
Outlook for 2019 foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, funding CAUTIONARY STATEMENT and liquidity risk and interest rate risk, which are The Group believes that there is the potential for Certain statements in this Annual Report are The Groups committed borrowing facility contains discussed below.
the number of depots in the UK to be increased forward-looking.
Although the Group believes certain financial covenants which have been met from the 694 operating at the end of 2018, to that the expectations reflected in these forwardthroughout 2018.
The covenants are tested every No speculative use of derivatives, currency or around 850 depots.
During the course of 2019, looking statements are reasonable, we can give four weeks and are based around: i fixed charges: other instruments is permitted.
The Treasury we plan to open around 40 depots in the UK and no assurance that these expectations will prove ii tangible net worth: and iii earnings before function does not operate as a profit centre and Northern Ireland one already having been opened, to have been correct.
Because these statements interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation transacts only in relation to the underlying and around four in the Paris region.
contain risks and uncertainties, actual results may EBITDA for Howden Joinery Limited.
differ materially from those expressed or implied by Regarding the Groups financial performance, we In addition, our pension trustees, who carry a charge these forward-looking statements.
We undertake no Foreign currency risk expect further operating costs of 15m in respect over the share capital of Howden Joinery Limited, obligation to update any forward-looking statements of closing the operations in the Netherlands The most significant currencies for the Group are have a separate covenant test around the EBITDA whether as a result of new information, future events and Germany, digital upgrades and additional the US dollar and the Euro.
It is the Groups current of Howden Joinery Limited.
These are in addition to the impact policy that routine transactional conversion between The Groups latest forecasts and projections have of on-going growth in the business, inflationary currencies is completed at the relevant spot exchange By order of the Board been stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse pressures, new depots and any impact of foreign rate.
This policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
variations in trading performance and show that the exchange rates.
The net favourable impact of exchange rates on Group will operate within the terms of its borrowing Mark Robson currency transactions in the year was 1.1m.
The Capital expenditure of around 60m is expected, facility and covenants for the foreseeable future.
Deputy Chief Executive principal exchange rates affecting the profits of the including further investment in new depots, digital and Chief Financial Officer Group are set out in the table on the following page.
At the 2018 year end, the Group had 231m of cash upgrades and the next phase of the Raunds and 138m of funds available to borrow under the 27 February 2019 distribution centre.
Counterparty risk committed borrowing facility.
We remain cautious given economic uncertainties, Group Treasury policy on investment restricts particularly the impact that Brexit might have.
In Interest rate risk counterparties to those with a short-term credit preparation for a No-Deal Brexit, our worst case The Group has not had any borrowings during rating at least equivalent to Standard and Poors scenario, a number of measures have been taken.
2018 and does not consider interest rate risk to A-1 or Moodys P-1.
It also places limits on the Our stocking policy for at-risk items has been be significant at present.
maximum amount which can be invested with adjusted to secure continuity of supply during the a single counterparty.
As a result, around 15m additional reviewsthe credit quality of counterparties, the inventory has been purchased and key suppliers limits placed on individual credit exposures and are also making plans to ensure supply.
In addition, categories of investments.
we are looking closely at the options for our inbound supply routes and pursuing appropriate Funding and liquidity logistics accreditation, including Authorised The Groups objective with respect to managing Economic Operator status, to reduce potential capital is to maintain a balance sheet structure customs delays.
Further details of Brexit risks and that is both efficient in terms of providing longmitigations can be found on page 34. term returns to shareholders and safeguards the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Whilst we remain aware of the economic As appropriate, the Group can choose to adjust its uncertainties that we face, we are encouraged by capital structure by varying the amount of dividends the start we have made to the year and remain paid to shareholders, the returns of capital to confident in our business model for the future.
shareholders, the level of capital expenditure, or by issuing new shares.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
