6 6, 9 8 7 1 8 7 74 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 75 Nominations Committee Report continued BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD COMPOSITION CONTINUED After careful consideration, the Committee also recommended G G Gr r ro o ou u up d p d p di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty p y p y po o ol l li i ic c cy y y R R Ro o ole le le o o of f f t t the he he N N Nom om omi i in n na a at t ti i ion on ons s s C C Comm omm ommi i it t tt t te e ee e e to the Board that both Geoff Drabble and Andrew Cripps should The Group promotes the importance of diversity and adopts To review on a regular basis the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard be reappointed as Non-Executive Directors with effect from July an Equal Opportunities Policy under which training and career to any changes.
In undertaking this review, the Committee must take into account the skills, knowledge, experience of members of and December 2018 respectively.
Having served on the Board for development opportunities are available to all employees, the Board and of the diversity of background, views, gender and race as well as and length of service of the Board as a whole three years, Geoff and Andrews appointments were both agreed regardless of gender, religion or race.
by the Board and extended for a further three years.
To formulate and execute succession plans for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and in particular for the key roles of The Group is committed to meeting the code of practice on the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Succession plans should take into account the challenges and opportunities facing the The Nominations Committee also considers Executive Director employment of disabled people and full and fair consideration is Company, and therefore what skills and expertise are needed on the Board in the future succession as part of its routine succession planning process and given to disabled applicants for employment.
It aims to do all that Where needed, the Committee should identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the during 2018 it recommended to the Board that Andrew Livingston is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the employment approval of the Board be appointed as successor to Matthew Ingle as Chief Executive and training of disabled people.
The Group welcomes, and As part of the process for nominating candidates for appointment, the Committee will obtain details of and review any interests Officer.
The Board unanimously accepted this recommendation.
considers fully, applications by disabled persons, having regard to the candidate may have which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This process also includes assessing their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the Groups policy whether the candidates have any other significant appointments of which the Board should be aware R R Re e em m mu u un n ne e erat rat ratio io ion C n C n Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee C e C e Cha ha hai i ir a r a r an n nd S d S d Se e en n nio io ior r r to retain employees who may become disabled while in service I I In n ndep dep depen en enden den dent t t D D Di i ir r re e ec c ct t to o or r r S S Suc uc ucc c ce e es s ss s si i io o on n n and to provide appropriate training.
To keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the Tiffany Hall will retire from the Board during 2019 having been continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace appointed in May 2010.
Karen Caddick will succeed Tiffany as G G Gr r ro o ou u up p p G G Gen en ender der der D D Di i iv v ver er ers s si i it t ty y y Sta Sta Stat t ti i is s st t ti i ic c cs s s To make recommendations to the Board regarding the membership of the Executive, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chair upon Tiffanys retirement which will The Nominations Committee reviews the gender statistics shown Committees in consultation with the chair of each committee allow for an extended handover period and also ensure that Karen in the chart below against Office for National Statistics ONS To recommend the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and the rewill have served on the Howden Joinery Group Plc Remuneration averages each year and, in relation to gender diversity in the election by shareholders of any Director under the annual re-election provisions, in each case having given due regard to their Committee for a period of more than twelve months.
Board, against other FTSE250 company averages.
Similarly, where performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board other data is available, this is presented to the Committee in order Following an internal process, the Nominations Committee To consider any matters relating to the continuation in office of any Director at any time including the suspension or termination to determine whether there are any implicit diversity issues.
recommended to the Board that Geoff Drabble be appointed of service of an Executive Director as an employee of the Company subject to the provisions of the law and their service contract as Tiffanys successor as Senior Independent Director.
This G G Gr r ro o ou u up G p G p Ge e en n nd d fide e er D r D r Di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty y y a a as a s a s at 2 t 2 t 29 D 9 D 9 fide e ec c ce e em m mb b be e er 2 r 2 r 20 0 01 1 18 8 8 recommendation was unanimously accepted by the Board, and S S Sup up upp p por or ort t ti i in n ng g g a a ac c ct t ti i ion on ons s s, , p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss s se e es s s a a an n nd d d i i in n nf f for or orm m ma a at t ti i ion on on: : : Geoff will succeed Tiffany upon her retirement.
Board 9 Executive Committee Male Members 9 DI DI DIV V five E ER R RSI SI SIT T TY Y Y Female DIR DIR DIRE E EC C CT T TO O OR R R S S SU U UC C CC C CE E ES S SSI SI SIO O ON N N Male Bo Bo Boa a ar r rd d dr r ro o oo o om D m D m Di i iv v five e er r rs s si i it t ty P y P y Po o ol l li i ic c cy y y N N No o on n n- - -E E Ex x xe e ec c cu u ut t ti i iv v five T e T e Te e enu nu nur r re e e Female An effective Nominations Committee will establish a stable The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there a a as at 2 s at 2 s at 29 D 9 D 9 fide e ec c ce e em m mb b be e er 2 r 2 r 20 0 018 18 18 leadership framework.
Part of its work must also be to is diversity of perspective, background and approach in its proactively manage change to reassess the future leadership Years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 management team and on its Board.
Since the business was needs of the Company.
established in 1995, it has sought to enable individuals to Tiffany Hall progress within the organisation regardless of age, gender, As detailed in the remainder of this report and in the case study background or formal qualifications.
Mark Allen on page 76, the Nominations Committee has successfully managed a Board succession programme which has ensured Richard We believe that it is in the interests of the business and of its Pennycook a smooth introduction of both Executive and Non-Executive shareholders for us to build a stable, cohesive and representative Directors to the Board.
Whilst the setting of targets on particular aspects of diversity may be relevant in many cases, we feel that this could be given The Nominations Committee remains committed to a Andrew Cripps inappropriate focus within the context of a smaller board, resulting in programme of reviewing and refreshing the Non-Executive the possible overlooking of certain wellqualified candidates.
Debbie White membership of the Board to ensure there is sufficient balance between the introduction of fresh perspectives and the The Nominations Committee will continue to seek diversity Karen Caddick maintenance of continuity and stability.
Where possible, the of mindset as well as of gender, race, and background when Board will ensure a phased transition of Non-Executives in order considering new appointments in the period to 2020, and it will to avoid wholesale changes to the make-up of the Board see continue to review this policy on an annual basis to ensure it At the Nominations Committee meeting in July 2018, the chart to the right for tenures of the Non-Executive Directors.
More widely, we are committed to developing Committee recommended to the Board that it appoint Karen a long-term pipeline of executive talent that reflects the diversity Caddick as Non-Executive Director.
Based on Karens professional of Howdens business and its stakeholders.
As at 29 December experience, it was felt that she provided strong diversity of 2018, 33% of Board members were women.
Senior Management Group 9,496 perspective and cultural fit to help with the leadership of the Male Group 105 business in the long-term and it was also acknowledged that Both of the Executive Directors were male.
Female Male Karen had particular strengths in organisational development, Female delivery of diversity programmes and executive remuneration.
This recommendation was unanimously approved by the Board.
including Executive Directors 6 7 1 3 2 6, 0 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 76 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 77 Nominations Committee Report continued Case Study: CEO induction BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Andrew Livingston joined Howdens on 29 January 2018 as CEO Manufacturing and logistics: Meetings with senior Designate.
Between joining the business and his appointment supply chain managers were held at each of the main R R Ro o ole le le o o of f f t t the he he N N Nom om omi i in n na a at t ti i ion on ons s s C C Comm omm ommi i it t tt t te e ee e e as CEO in April 2018, it was imperative to ensure that he manufacturing and logistics sites as part of the induction To provide appropriate and timely training, both in the form of an induction programme for new Directors and on an ongoing basis received a comprehensive and dynamic induction programme.
This part of the programme also included a for all Directors number of meetings with suppliers.
Andrew attended the To annually review the time required from Non-Executive Directors and undertake a performance evaluation to assess whether The Nominations Committee tasked the Group HR Director biennial kitchen exhibition, Eurocucina, in Italy in April.
Non-Executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties and the Company Secretary with developing his induction Support services: Andrew also received briefings from the programme.
Given the unique nature of Howdens culture, To ensure that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly support functions including IT, Group finance and accounting, it was apparent from the outset that the retiring CEO would what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings internal audit and risk, and governance and legal.
He met be instrumental in both formulating and helping to deliver with all of the Groups principal advisors including brokers, theprogramme.
auditors, lawyers and actuaries during the course of S S Sup up upp p por or ort t ti i in n ng g g a a ac c ct t ti i ion on ons s s, , p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss s se e es s s a a an n nd d d i i in n nf f for or orm m ma a at t ti i ion on on: : : hisinduction.
In order to ensure as immersive induction as possible, Executive Committee meetings were held weekly between the The induction culminated at the senior management conference end of January and April 2018 at different locations across DIR DIR DIRE E EC C CT T TO O OR R R IN IN IND D DU U UC C CTI TI TIO O ON N N AN AN AND D D TR TR TRAIN AIN AININ IN ING G G held at the end of March when the CEO role effectively the business.
Effectively a weekly programme in each of the All new Directors undertake an induction programme upon Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars transitioned from Matthew to Andrew, with thanks going to the business units, the incoming CEO was able to spend time with joining the Board.
Whilst each induction programme is and briefings as part of their continuous professional former and the latter setting out his strategic vision based on senior management and employees across the business in the tailored to the specific needs of the individual, we strive development.
All members of the Board are members of trade convenience, product leadership and value.
following areas: to provide a dynamic introduction to the real nature of the the Deloitte Academy which provides in-depth updates on business through the provision of specifically selected financial reporting and corporate governance matters.
The Non-Executive Directors were available to support the Depots: Andrew visited depots in all nine regions and information, by meeting with individuals both internal incoming CEO and members of the Executive Committee both attended regional board meetings in each region during and external who are central to the ongoing success of during and post-transition.
This meant that all field based management the business and by visiting key sites such as depots, and depot managers had the opportunity to meet with Following his appointment as CEO in April, Andrew has met manufacturing sites and distribution centres.
We have Andrew before he became CEO.
He also received briefings with representatives of various stakeholder groups including considered the induction delivered to the Chief Executive on health and safety and from the commercial, product suppliers at the annual Supplier Conference, the Chairman of Officer in some detail in the case study on page 76. and marketing teams.
the Pension Trustees and the teams responsible for delivering The Nominations Committee recognises that regular reon the Groups charity and community objectives.
acquaintance with the culture of the business underpins the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to meet with Howdens employees at all levels in order to maintain a broad view of the business.
Non-Executive Directors are also invited to attend Howdens events following their initial induction.
The individual training and development needs of Directors are also considered as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Ongoing training and development for the Directors includes attendance at formal conferences and internal events as well as briefings from external advisers.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 78 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 79 Nominations Committee Report continued GOVERNANCE B B BO O OAR AR ARD D D E E EF F FF F FE E EC C CTI TI TIV V five E EN N NE E ES S SS S S E E EV V VAL AL ALU U UA A ATI TI TIO O ON N N In line with the Boards policy to undertake an external Board effectiveness review every three years and following the evaluation conducted by Independent Board Evaluation IBE in 2016, the 2018 review was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director with support from the Role of the Nominations Committee Company Secretary and focused on the following areas: To give due consideration to laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any other applicable rules, as appropriate The appointment and transition of Chief Executive Officer Role and performance of the Chairman Supporting actions, processes and information: Shareholder relations: accountability and communication Strategy Russell Reynolds Associates was engaged by the Committee THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE IN 2019 to assist with the identification of suitable candidates.
Further Governance, compliance and risk The Nominations Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice details on the outcome of this search will be provided following during 2019.
Board dynamics, focus and priorities its conclusion in 2019 and reported in full in the 2019 Annual Report.
Russell Reynolds Associates does not have any other Succession planning: Board and Executive Committee The Committee will continue to consider Board succession business relationship with the Company.
and review the balance of skills on the Board.
In addition, it Board Composition: culture, skills and diversity will also assess the time commitment and performance of Decision-making: objectivity, process and outcomes During 2019, the Nominations Committee will continue to Non-Executive Directors, plan the external board evaluation ensure that a continuous transition process between new process, discuss boardroom diversity, and review the Board papers and presentations and long-serving Non-Executive Directors occurs.
2017 Recommendations Annual General Meeting AGM elections In recognition of the new requirements of the UK Corporate Emerging issues and future challenges for the Board Governance Code, the Committee will also ensure that plans and re-elections are in place for orderly succession to senior management As stated in the Corporate Governance Report, all of the positions, including the Company Secretary, taking into account Directors not appointed since the last AGM will retire in the challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and each Committee will review how talent is managed throughout will offer themselves for re-election in accordance with Article M M Me e et t th h ho o od d do o ol l log og ogy y y the organisation and how succession plans support the 118 of the Articles of Association at the 2019 AGM.
development of a diverse talent pipeline, in particular the Karen Caddick, having been appointed since the last AGM, gender balance of senior management and their direct reports.
S S Sep ep ept t tem em emb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 18 8 8 O O Oc c cto to tob b be e er r r to to to D D fide e ecem cem cemb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 18 8 8 will offer herself for election in accordance with Article 117 The Committee will be taking an active role in the setting, The evaluation methodology D D fide e ec c cem em emb b ber er er 2 2 20 0 01 1 18 8 8 The conclusions of the of the Articles of Association.
meeting and monitoring of the impact of diversity objectives J J Jan an anu u uar ar ary y y 2 2 20 0 01 1 19 9 9 and agenda were agreed with Interviews with Board evaluation, including and strategies for the Group as a whole.
The main observations and In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that the Chairman and Company members, the Company the observations and recommendations from the the Nominations Committee has considered the formal Secretary.
Secretary and the recommendations for the Appointments and Re-appointments evaluation are presented to performance evaluation in respect of those Directors seeking external audit lead main Board are presented With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Nominations Committee re-election, and the contribution and commitment of the partner.
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK and the Board.
Directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election.
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related He has confirmed to the Board that their performance and legislation.
On that basis, during 2018, the Nominations commitment is such that the Company should support Committee began a search for a new Non-Executive Director theirre-election.
as a replacement for Mark Allen.
By order of the Board S S Summ umm umma a ar r ry y y c c conc onc oncl l lu u usi si sion on ons s s a a an n nd d d r r re e ec c comm omm omme e en n nd d da a at t ti i ion on ons s s The Board was deemed effective by the evaluation participants and the significant events which occurred during the year, particularly the handover between CEOs had been well managed by the Board.
All Board members gave positive feedback in relation to stakeholder accountability and relationships, governance, compliance and risk, board focus and succession planning.
The Board were Richard Pennycook mindful that the incoming CEO would have a different approach to strategy and that this would develop during 2019.
More specific Nominations Committee Chair recommendations were made across a number of areas and the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary 27 February 2019 have agreed to progress these during 2019.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 80 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 81 Remuneration Committee Report Shareholders should take comfort however that the 270% Performance measures for the 2019 annual bonus will remain ANNUAL REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIR STATEMENT opportunity level will only be available for exceptionally stretching the same as 2018 being PBT and cash flow.
For the 2019 PSP, in I am pleased to present the Howden Joinery Group Remuneration The 2016 Performance Share Plan PSP with performance levels of performance.
In practice the 270% award level was only consideration of internal expectations and external forecasts, it Committee Report for 2018.
The report has been prepared in measured to FY 2018 is based on three year PBT growth p. a. applied at a time when the associated PBT target range was 8% is our intention to maintain both the target range and opportunity compliance with the requirements of the Large and MediumOver the three year period of the 2016 Performance Share 20%.
In 2017 and 2018 the Committee reduced the maximum under the 2018 PSP of 220% of salary for a target range of 5% to sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
Plan cycle, our PBT has grown by 2.8% p. a. however due to the opportunity to 220% when the target range was reduced.
stretching nature of this award requiring 8% per annum PBT Our existing policy was approved by shareholders at the 2016 growth to achieve threshold vesting the award will lapse in full.
The Committee recognises the provisions of the new UK The Committee has for some time been cognisant of the AGM and therefore is due to expire at the 2019 AGM.
At the AGM Corporate Governance Code around Executive Director pensions, emphasis in our incentives on PBT.
This reflects the focus on on 2 May 2019, we will therefore be seeking approval of both The CEOs salary was last agreed by the Remuneration and the views held by our shareholders in this regards.
As such, profit throughout the business, and has aligned management the Annual Report on Remuneration and the revised Executive Committee in July 2017 as part of his recruitment package.
under our revised policy the pension provision for new Executive with our entrepreneurial culture, the wider workforce and the Director Remuneration Policy.
Our updated policy remains As such, the Committee has implemented a 2.5% base salary Directors has been reduced to 4% of salary.
Andrew Livingston, delivery of value to shareholders through share price growth broadly unchanged with some minor revisions to ensure our increase for 2019.
This increase is in line with the increase being who was appointed under our previous policy, receives a salary and shareholder returns.
policy remains in line with best practice.
It is structured to be implemented for the wider workforce.
No salary increase has supplement of 20% of salary in lieu of pensions.
Mark Robson, aligned to our strategy and to maintain an aligned approach been implemented for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief However, we note the comments from some shareholders that a who has been in role for a number of years, will receive a salary to rewarding performance between Executives and the wider Financial Officer DCEO & CFO for 2019 as the Committee were greater diversity of measures within our long-term incentive plans supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pensions having opted-out workforce with a focus on profitability measures in executive mindful that the DCEO & CFO receives a pension provision at a would be desirable.
Alignment with the strategy of the business of the Companys defined benefit plan at the end of 2018. remuneration as well as monthly bonuses paid to depot staff.
higher rate than current policy under his contract of employment.
has and will continue to be the central driver for the selection This approach promotes individual and collective responsibility It should be noted that the DCEO & CFO opted-out of the defined We are currently undertaking a comprehensive review of of performance measures.
Therefore from 2020 onwards we and reaffirms our entrepreneurial culture with our employees.
benefit plan at the end of 2018 and that will reduce his ongoing pensions across our wider workforce, and will continue to keep intend to introduce a returns measure into our long-term incentive We have invited our principal shareholders to comment on the pension benefits going forwards.
Executive Director pensions under review.
Through 2019 we will set internal targets and monitor draft policy and we have taken their feedback into account in the this against investments to ensure we can appropriately calibrate 2019 remuneration policy review policy set out later in the report.
2019 incentives this metric and that it is well understood within the senior During the year the Committee undertook a comprehensive review For the 2019 annual bonus we will replace the historic profit management population before it is formally introduced.
A summary of our proposed changes are set out later within of the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors in light share structure within the annual bonus PBT measure with a this letter with the full policy set out on pages 82 to 89. of the Companys strategic priorities and developing corporate I hope the information presented within this report provides conventional threshold to maximum approach.
Upon review, governance and investor expectations.
Our current remuneration a clear explanation as to how we have operated our 2016 whilst the profit share component has historically served the 2018 reward outcomes policy has supported the success of our business through a remuneration policy over 2018 and as to how we intend to business well and created alignment to depot management, 2018 represents the third year of operation for our remuneration challenging time, and continues to be aligned both with our long operate our proposed remuneration policy for 2019.
We continue who also participate in a profit share arrangement, we now policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM term strategy and wider market norms.
As such, based on our to be committed to an open and transparent dialogue with our believe that it creates undue complexity.
A more conventional see chart on page 101 for AGM voting outcomes, and applies for review we have decided that the current remuneration structure investors, and the Committee would welcome any feedback or profit measure still maintains the focus on profit in incentives three years from that date.
This policy is summarised on page 90. continues to be the best framework for Howdens with some minor comments you have on this report, our proposed remuneration and alignment with the depots but reduces complexity for revisions to ensure continued alignment to best practice.
policy or how we implement it for 2019. participants and investors.
For the 2018 annual bonus, performance was based on the delivery of both profit and cash flow targets.
Despite the There is no change to the annual bonus opportunity which challenging headwinds in the market Howdens has performed we believe continues to be appropriate for the business and well over the year delivering 7.7% growth in sales on 2017 whilst aligned to market practice in comparable sized companies.
We MEETING ATTENDANCE continuing to deliver a strong gross profit margin of 61.7%.
This will retain existing full flexibility in bonus performance metrics The Committee meets at least three times a year and at any In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the has resulted in a Profit Before Tax PBT of 238.5m and cash with measures subject to annual review by the Committee other such time as the Chair of the Committee requires.
Only the Committees terms of reference, during the year the Remuneration flow of 224.8m.
This has allowed us to continue to invest in to ensure that they remain fit for purpose subject to at least attendance of members of this committee is shown in the table Committee consisted wholly of independent Non-Executive key strategic opportunities such as depots, digital initiatives, 75% of performance measures being based on financial below, although other Directors, where appropriate, have often Directors.
Subject to successful annual re-election to the Board, and supply chain resilience which will position us competitively targets.
Annual bonus deferral will be increased such that also attended at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
appointments to the Remuneration Committee are for a period of to meet future demand.
30% of any bonus earned in a year is deferred in shares for a three years, which may be extended by the Committee provided the period of two years.
This change supports a strong alignment Director remains independent.
Howdens incurred a one-off charge of 3.8m in respect of GMP between management and shareholders whilst maintaining an equalisation in 2018.
This charge applied to all defined benefit appropriate cash flow to participants.
pension schemes and related to the equalisation benefits for Tiffany Mark Karen Andrew Geoff Debbie men and women in respect of guaranteed minimum pension Hall Allen Caddick Cripps Drabble White We are also introducing a post-cessation holding period such provision.
Equalisation was only applicable for pre-1997 that Executive Directors will be required to retain 100% of their No.
Due to the one-off nature of this charge, shareholding requirement 200% of salary for a period of two years meetings 4 4 4 4 3 and because it was both historic and outside of managements 1 post-cessation.
We believe that this change will also strengthen the 100% 100% 100% 100% 75% control, the Remuneration Committee agreed to exercise Attendance 100% alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders.
discretion and discount the charge in respect of the 2018 bonus.
We believe the current PSP continues to be fit for purpose and is Our strong financial performance has resulted in an annual strongly aligned to our strategy therefore we will make no change bonus outcome just above target of 112% of salary for our to the structure or opportunity level.
Our remuneration philosophy 1 Mark was unable to attend the meeting on 19 July 2018 due to a prior commitment Executive Directors.
is and historically has been one of above market levels of reward 2 Karen was appointed to the Board and Remuneration Committee on 7 September 2018. for above market levels of performance.
In line with this, the Denotes Chair of Committee PSP maximum opportunity will continue to be 270% of salary.
Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference www.
com investors governance remuneration index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 82 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 83 Remuneration Committee Report continued Element and how DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY it supports our Performance Howdens Remuneration Policy, as set out in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, was approved by shareholders at our 2016 AGM.
strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Our current Policy expires at the 2019 AGM and therefore we present a revised policy, following careful review, below with the intention Benefits Howdens pays the cost of providing the benefits on a monthly Benefits are based upon None.
that it will apply for three years from the date of the 2019 AGM.
The policy has supported the success of our business through a basis or as required for one-off events.
market rates and include challenging period and continues to be aligned both with our long-term strategy and wider market norms.
The changes detailed in the Provides a receipt of a car allowance: competitive level summary below demonstrate that the policy remains broadly unchanged from the version approved by shareholders in 2016, albeit non-exclusive use of a of benefits.
there are minor revisions to ensure continued alignment with best practice.
driver: health insurance and death-in-service insurance Summary of changes to the Remuneration Policy payable by the Company.
Remuneration Annual Bonus Performance is assessed annually against cash flow and PBT The threshold for the annual For 2019 the Element Proposed changes targets.
bonus will be dependent annual bonus Incentivises annual Pension The pension provision for new Executive Directors has been reduced to be in line with the wider workforce, on the individual measures will be based performance over 30% of any bonus earned is deferred into shares.
Shares are which is currently 4% of salary.
For 2019, on PBT and the financial year.
paid out on the second anniversary of deferral date.
the annual bonus will be cash flow Deferral links bonus based on PBT and cash measures.
Annual bonus Annual bonus deferral changes from any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary being deferred in two The Committee has the discretion to adjust the bonus outcome payout to share flow, with threshold payout deferral tranches, to 30% of any bonus earned deferred for a period of two years.
in light of overall underlying performance.
Any adjustment made The price performance being 20% of salary.
using this discretion will be explained in the following Annual Committee over the medium Report on Remuneration.
Post-cessation From 2019, Executive Directors will be required to retain 100% of their shareholding requirement The maximum opportunity retains the term.
shareholding or full actual holding if lower for two years post-cessation.
under the annual bonus is flexibility Payment is subject to continued employment.
to use Malus provisions apply for the duration of the performance alternative The Committee has period and to shares held under deferral.
measures Future policy table Executive Directors the flexibility to apply a during the life Clawback provisions apply to cash amounts paid for two years The table below sets out the key components of Executive Directors pay packages, including why they are used and how they are maximum opportunity of of this policy, following payment.
Therefore clawback and or malus will operated in practice.
up to 200% of salary in subject to at operate on the award for a total period of up to two years after exceptional circumstances.
least 75% of the performance period.
Remuneration is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group.
In addition to benchmarking, the bonus If the Committee considers the Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing Clawback may be applied in the following scenarios: being based it appropriate to use a market conditions, and to governance requirements.
on financial maximum opportunity material misstatement of accounts: metrics.
of over 150% of salary, erroneous assessment of a performance target: we will notify our largest Element and how shareholders in advance, it supports our Performance where the number of plan shares under an award was and discuss with them strategy Operation Opportunity Measures incorrectly determined: or the rationale for such an Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, and Increases will normally be only for inflation and None.
The are effective from 1 January each or in line with the wider employee population.
exceptional maximum Recognises the year.
Salaries will not be changed would not be used on a market value of Salaries are set within a range defined by a outside of the annual review, except retrospective basis, and the executives market benchmark derived from companies of for in exceptional circumstances, would be based on prerole, skill, a comparable size operating in a similar sector such as a mid-year change in role.
determined and stretching responsibilities, policy is to pay median.
The peer group used is performance targets.
performance and reviewed whenever benchmarking is performed, experience.
and the Committee applies judgement in identifying appropriate peer group constituent companies.
The individuals level of total remuneration against the market is considered at the same time.
Reviews will also take into account the performance of the individuals, any changes in their responsibilities, pay increases for the wider workforce and internal relativities.
2018 and 2019 salary levels are detailed in the Implementation of Director policy in 2019 section on page 94.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 84 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 85 Remuneration Committee Report continued Performance measures and targets Element and how As part of the Committees review of our remuneration arrangements, we have considered the appropriateness of the performance measures it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures we have historically used, as well as the potential merits of incorporating measures which deliver increased focus on other elements of our financial performance.
Following careful review, the Committee believes that the current measures continue to be appropriate for our Performance Executives have the opportunity to participate in The threshold for the performance 2019 awards will business, and therefore for the 2019 awards PBT and cash flow will continue to be the measures used within incentives.
Share Plan PSP the PSP on an annual basis.
The PSP operates over share plan will be 15% of maximum.
be based in full on a three-year cycle.
This may be amended by the PBT growth.
Focuses The Committee does however recognise the feedback received by shareholders and the undue complexity that exists in our current profit Committee dependent on the management Under the PSP, awards will be granted towards The Committee share arrangement included as part of the annual bonus calibration.
maximum opportunity in a given on longer-term the beginning of the performance period and vest retains the year.
financial growth based on performance over the following three-year flexibility to We therefore have decided to replace the historic profit share structure with a PBT measure operating under a conventional threshold than addressed by performance period.
Malus provisions apply for the The maximum opportunity under use alternative to maximum calibration.
Upon review, whilst the profit share component has served the business well and created alignment to depot the annual bonus.
duration of the vesting period.
financial management, we now believe that it creates undue complexity.
A more conventional profit measure still maintains the focus on profit in Long-term financial performance incentives but reduces complexity for participants and investors.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the PSP growth is key to measures during outcome in light of overall underlying performance.
the generation of the life of this Cash flow continues to be a key internal metric for Howdens.
We believe that the incorporation of this measure in the bonus focuses our Any adjustment made using this discretion will shareholder value.
leadership on strong working capital management, supports strong sustainable profit growth and the delivery of returns to our shareholders.
be explained in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee has for some time been cognisant of the emphasis in our incentives on PBT.
This reflects the focus on profit throughout Vested awards are subject to a two-year holding the business, and has aligned management with our entrepreneurial culture, the wider workforce and the delivery of value to shareholders period following vesting, during which no through share price growth and the dividend.
However, we note the comments from some shareholders that a greater diversity of measures within our plans would be desirable.
Alignment Clawback provisions apply for the duration of the with the strategy of the business has and will continue to be the central driver for the selection of performance measures.
Therefore from holding period, through which vested awards may 2020 onwards we intend to introduce a returns measure into our long-term incentive program.
be reclaimed in the event of: material misstatement of accounts: Through 2019 we will set internal targets and monitor this to ensure we can appropriately calibrate this metric from 2020 onwards and that it is well understood within the senior management population before it is formally introduced.
erroneous assessment of a performance target: where the number of plan shares under an award We want to continue to ensure that the Committee is positioned to maintain alignment between incentives and the challenges facing the was incorrectly determined: or business, as such, during the life of this policy it may become appropriate to amend the performance measures used for our incentives.
It is gross misconduct by a Director.
for this reason that we maintain the flexibility in our policy to change performance measures, subject to at least 75% of the bonus and 100% No dividends accrue on unvested shares.
of the PSP being based on financial metrics.
Pension New Executive Directors will be entitled to participate in the auto-enrolment defined None.
Annual bonus 2019 contribution scheme in line with the wider workforce, which is currently 4% of basic The table below sets out additional information on performance conditions relating to the 2019 annual bonus: Provides salary or receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension.
competitive long-term savings The level of salary supplement is aligned to the maximum pension benefit available to Measure Definition How targets are set opportunities.
The current CEO receives a salary supplement of 20% of salary PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax from continuing Set by the Remuneration Committee in light of Howdens in lieu of pension.
The current DCEO & CFO receives a salary supplement of 30% in lieu operations.
budget, brokers forecasts and prior year PBT.
Cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, taking into Cash flow targets generated by Howdens financial model, All-employee Executive Directors are able to participate in HMRC The maximum participation levels will None.
account the efficiency with which working capital is based on modelled scenarios under which threshold, share incentive approved share plans available to all employees of be set based on the applicable limits used, and adjusted for exceptional items.
target and outperformance levels of PBT are achieved.
To encourage share Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of bonus targets but targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual ownership across Report on Remuneration.
For 2018 targets please see the annual bonus targets and outcomes table on page 92. the Company.
Shareholding Executive Directors are expected to retain vested Executive Directors are expected to The PSP will be based solely on nominal PBT performance for the 2019 award.
Targets are considered by the Remuneration Committee to Requirement shares from deferred bonus and long-term incentive build up a holding of 200% of base provide a range which represents long-term success for Howdens, and are kept under review in light of brokers forecasts and inflation forecasts.
awards net of income tax and national insurance salary.
Strengthens In the event that inflation significantly increases, the Committee will reconsider the operation of this measure to ensure that the use of nominal contributions until they reach the minimum alignment of Executive Directors will be required targets is appropriate.
interests between to retain 100% of their shareholding participants and Unvested deferred bonus and long-term incentive requirement i. e. 200% of base The intended targets for 2019 PSP grants are detailed in the Implementation of Director policy in 2019 section on page 94. shareholders.
shares are not taken into account.
PSP shares salary for two years post-cessation within a holding period are counted towards the or full actual holding if lower.
Remuneration policy for other employees requirement.
The remuneration policy described above applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
However, the Remuneration Committee believes it is appropriate that all reward received by senior management is directly linked to the performance of the Company and aligned with shareholder value.
Accordingly, Executive Committee members a further seven individuals participate in the same incentive schemes as the Executive Directors at a reduced level to ensure alignment between the leadership team with each other and with our shareholders.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 86 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 87 Remuneration Committee Report continued Below this level, the encouragement of share ownership is cascaded through all tiers of management.
Individuals within the upper tiers of The composition and value of the Executive Directors remuneration packages in a range of performance scenarios are set out in the the organisation participate in a similar bonus plan that is linked to PBT and cash flow.
These individuals also participate in a PSP, which charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long-term performance is in line with our remuneration vests dependent on the same performance measures as the PSP awarded to Executive Directors.
policy and changes significantly across the performance scenarios.
As a result, the package promotes the achievement of superior long-term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of other shareholders.
A brief description of each Share grants are made at a reduced level to a wider population within Howdens that do not use performance conditions.
These awards remuneration scenario is set out below the charts.
are made in order to encourage share ownership throughout the Company.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group NED fee policy The Committee has carefully reviewed the requirements of the revised 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Embedding The Groups policy on Non-Executive Director NED and Chairman fees is set out below.
the new Principles of the Code, including increasing awareness of the pay arrangements across the wider group will be a significant focus for the Committee during 2019 as the Board continues to seek to adopt leading standards of governance.
Element and how When making decisions on Executive reward, the Remuneration Committee will continue to consider the wider economic environment it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures and conditions within the Company and will review and enhance its processes in this regard.
In particular, the Committee considers pay conditions for the wider workforce when reviewing base salaries for Executive Directors in addition to a range of applicable pay ratios.
Fees for NonThe fees for the Non-Executive Fees for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the NEDs are not For 2019, salary increases for the wider workforce are around 2.5% of salary.
Executive Directors are determined by the statement of implementation of policy on page 97. eligible to Directors Chairman and Chief Executive.
participate The fees reflect the time commitment and Additionally, some of the Companys workforce are unionised or belong to a works council.
Howdens maintains open lines of in any To attract NEDs who The fee for the Chairman is responsibilities of the roles.
Accordingly, committee communication with these bodies and the Committee is always made aware of any relevant information in relation to remuneration policy.
performance have a broad range determined by the Remuneration chairmanship and Senior Independent Director SID related of experience and Committee while the Chairman is fees are paid in addition to the NEDs basic fee.
In addition, and in order to provide increased transparency we have decided to early adopt the requirement to disclose the ratio of CEO arrangements.
skills to oversee the absent.
Committee chairmanship fees apply only to the Audit to UK workforce pay.
implementation of and Remuneration Committees.
The Chairman receives No other services are provided our strategy.
no fees in addition to the Chairmans fee.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views to the Group by Non-Executive The Committee remains committed to maintaining an ongoing and transparent dialogue with its shareholders.
Fees may be reviewed every year, and are set within a range defined by a market benchmark of comparably remuneration policy was shared with our major shareholders and shareholder representation bodies in advance of the publication sized companies.
Benchmarking is typically undertaken of this report.
Feedback received was carefully considered by the Committee and incorporated where appropriate into the proposed policy.
2019 remuneration scenarios Approach to recruitment remuneration The remuneration package for the Executive Directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable The treatment and design of the various elements of remuneration paid to new recruits is set out in the table below.
The Committees performance-related components, with a significant proportion of the package weighted towards long-term variable pay.
The Committee policy is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
However, in unusual circumstances, an is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration packages is appropriate, clearly supports the Companys strategic arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made ambitions and does not incentivise inappropriate risk-taking and reviews this on an annual basis.
only where critical to the recruitment of an exceptional candidate, and within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
Value of package 000 Component Policy Andrew Livingston Mark Robson General The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
Maximum 22% 24% 36% 18% 3,491,155 Maximum 23% 24% 35% 18% 2,741,788 Any new Executive Directors ongoing package would be consistent with our remuneration policy as set out in this report.
Maximum 27% 30% 43% 2,871,030 Maximum 28% 29% 43% 2,256,688 Base salary The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to On-target 43% 23% 34% 1,828,092 On-target 43% 23% 34% 1,440,838 and benefits similar roles in comparable companies policy is to pay median.
In certain circumstances the Committee may initially position the Executive Directors salary below the market level and increase it to market levels through Minimum 100% 785,155 Minimum 100% 624,988 exceptional increases over an appropriate period of time.
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 The Executive Director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Howdens benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Fixed elements of remuneration Annual Bonus LTIP LTIP attributable to 50% share price appreciation Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of Fixed elements of remuneration consist of the annual salary that the Executive Director will receive for 2019, alongside their 2019 pension entitlement, and actual benefits legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, replacement of received in 2018 as a proxy for 2019. non-transferable household items and related taxes incurred.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Annual bonus is based on a maximum opportunity of 150% of salary and an on-target opportunity of 75% of salary.
Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and provision of tax advice.
LTIP is based on a maximum opportunity of 220% of salary in line with the 2019 grant noting that the overall policy maximum is 270% of salary.
Target opportunity is calculated as 50% of maximum 110% of salary.
Pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to The maximum including share price appreciation of 50% column is calculated on the same basis as the maximum column however includes an uplift of 50% total over three years for the performance share plan.
receive a supplement payment in line with the wider workforce.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 88 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 89 Remuneration Committee Report continued Policy on payment for loss of office Component Policy The treatment of the various elements of remuneration payable to Executive Directors in a loss of office scenario is set out in the table Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration below.
In exceptional circumstances an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual, policy table.
however any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
The Committee will only take The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 150% of salary, although in exceptional such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Full disclosure of any payments will be made in circumstances the Committee may choose to apply a maximum of up to 200% of salary.
accordance with the new Remuneration Reporting regulations.
Long-term The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the PSP set out in the remuneration policy table.
Component Policy incentives Accordingly, the Executive Director may be offered a maximum opportunity under the PSP of the 270% of salary General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual, the Committee will always seek to in performance shares.
minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
As an overriding principle there should be no element of reward for failure.
Replacement The Committee may grant the Executive Director awards to replace awards from a previous employment that awards are forfeited.
Should replacement awards be made, any awards granted would be no more generous overall Base salary In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and and benefits or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for structure of these commitments, the Committee will take into account the fair value and, as far as practicable, loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
the monthly salary that the Executive would have received if still in employment with the Company.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Pension Prior to plan normal retirement age, an enhanced pension may be payable to participants of the defined benefit All Executive Directors employment contracts have twelve months notice of termination on both sides.
In the event of termination pension plan in the event of retirement through ill-health.
There is no scope for enhancements to individuals by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, accrued pension entitlements for other loss of office scenarios.
Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary that the Executive would have received if still in employment with the Annual bonus Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the Company.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve month period of their departure from the Company.
payment is made, the Executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of In their service contracts, Executive Directors have the following remuneration-related contractual provisions: gross misconduct.
Receipt of a salary, which is subject to annual review Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment Receipt of a car allowance and non-exclusive use of a driver based on performance achieved over the period.
Health insurance and death-in-service insurance payable by the Group Eligibility to participate in any bonus scheme or arrangement which the Company may operate from time to time, subject to the Long-term The treatment of outstanding deferred annual bonus is governed by written agreements with individuals and plans rules incentives the treatment of long-term incentive awards by the rules of the relevant plan.
Individuals are defined as either and deferred a good or bad leaver for the purposes of outstanding incentive awards.
Good leavers are those leaving under Participation in the Companys pension plan, subject to the approval of the Board annual bonus pre-specified circumstances such as retirement, ill-health or disability or those deemed by the Committee at Non-Executive Director appointments are for an initial period of three years.
They are subject to re-appointment annually in accordance its absolute discretion as a good leaver given the circumstances surrounding the loss of office.
All other leavers are bad leavers.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any form of compensation in the event of early termination for whatever reason.
If an individual is a good leaver or dies then they will either continue to hold the award which will vest on the normal vesting date based on Howdens performance where applicable, or the Committee may exercise Copies of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available at the Companys registered office during usual discretion to accelerate vesting of the award, pro-rated to reflect the extent to which the performance targets business hours.
have been met allowing for the curtailed performance period.
In both scenarios, the amount vesting is prorated for the proportion of the period elapsed when the individual leaves.
If an individual is a bad leaver then all awards to which they are conditionally entitled will lapse in full.
Post-cessation Upon departure individuals will be required to retain 100% of their shareholding requirement or full actual shareholding holding if lower for a period of two years post-cessation.
requirements Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 90 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 91 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Deferred bonus Remuneration Committee Report Pension LTIP continued Executive Director shareholdings DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Committee believes that significant shareholdings on the part of our Executive Directors are key to ensuring effective alignment with shareholders.
How to use this report Under the share ownership guidelines, the Executive Directors are required to have a personal shareholding equal to twice their base Within this Remuneration Committee Report we have used colour coding to denote different elements of remuneration.
Shares deferred under the deferred bonus plan and unvested incentives shares are not counted towards this requirement.
The colours are: Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Deferred bonus LTIP There are no shareholding guidelines for NonExecutive Directors.
See the appendix on page 100 for a table of total shares in the Company held by the Directors, together with unvested performance EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS shares and those held subject to deferral conditions.
Our remuneration policy for Executive Directors as applied in 2018 In line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, for 2019 we have introduced a post-cessation shareholding requirement.
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Link to strategy This requires executives to hold 100% of their shareholding requirement or full actual holding if lower for a period of two years post cessation.
Base Salary Salaries are reviewed annually and are effective from 1 January each year.
Recognises the market value of the Executives role, Single figure of remuneration Audited skill, responsibilities, performance and experience.
Recruitment Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Award Total 000s Executive Directors 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Benefits Provides a competitive level of benefits.
Andrew Livingston 413 81 462 83 1,431 2,470 Mark Robson 441 428 51 53 494 223 0 0 182 177 1,168 881 Former Executive Directors Matthew Ingle 145 581 78 211 163 302 0 0 44 174 430 1,268 Pension For Executives appointed before April 2013, a hybrid defined benefit, occupational pension plan operates.
Executives appointed after April 2013 are invited to participate Notes to the single figure table in the auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or receive a salary supplement of 20% of pensionable salary.
Salary, benefits and pension Annual Bonus The annual bonus has a maximum opportunity of 150% of Our policy salary.
It is subject to stretching PBT and cash flow targets, Salaries will not be changed outside of the annual review, unless there are exceptional circumstances, such as a mid-year change reflecting our key internal performance indicators and the role in role.
Increases will normally be only for inflation and or in line with the wider employee population.
Salaries are set within a of sustainable profit growth in our entrepreneurial culture.
Above target, a profit share is used, aligned to the incentive range defined by market benchmark derived from companies in a similar sector policy is to pay median.
Salaries for 2019 can be structure that extends into the organisation.
The peer group used is reviewed whenever benchmarking is performed, and the Committee applies judgement in identifying appropriate peer group constituent companies.
The individuals level of total remuneration against the market is Deferred Bonus For the 2018 award, any bonus in excess of 100% of salary is considered at the same time.
deferred into shares, which are paid out in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversary of the deferral date.
Benefits are based upon market rates and include receipt of a car allowance: non-exclusive use of a driver: health insurance Clawback and or malus provisions operate on the bonus for a and death-in-service insurance payable by the Company.
Following Andrew Livingstons appointment as CEO, the Remuneration total period of up to two years after the performance period.
Committee agreed that the Company would pay reasonable hotel costs in order to provide flexibility whilst he undertook the logistical demands of the role.
Holding LTIP Three year performance period followed by a two year holding Period Performance period.
Performance is based on stretching PBT growth Holding Share Plan targets, aligning management with our longer term financial Period growth and reflecting the value we are able to deliver to shareholders.
Clawback provisions operate for the duration of the holding period.
For additional detail together with our joiner and leaver policies please see the full policy online at www.
com investors governance remuneration remuneration-policy.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 92 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 93 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Deferred bonus Remuneration Committee Report Pension LTIP continued A A An n nnu nu nual Bo al Bo al Bonu nu nus s s A A Au u ud d di i it t te e ed d d Performance Share Plan PBT Growth p. a. PBT element Our policy for 2018 outcomes PSP Audited Threshold: 2016 Performance Share Maximum: Our annual bonus for 2018 was based Our policy for 2018 outcomes Threshold: Actual 2018 Target: Outperformance: 8% p. a.
Plan range 20% p. a. on PBT and cash flow measures PBT excluding one-off 3.8m GMP Actual PBT of PBT of PBT of PBT of 2019 is the first year in which the PSP Equalisation charge 242.3m 232.2m 238.5m 240.2m 276.8m 2.8% subject to an aggregate maximum vests, having first been granted in 2016 0% p. a 5% 10% 15% of 150% of salary.
Profit share Under the PBT measure, payouts from Our PSP was measured against PBT Payout: Payout: 10% of 85% of Max 150% threshold to target are made as a 92% of salary 15% of maximum 100% of maximum salary salary of salary over the three year period from FY 2016 percentage of salary, with performance to FY 2018. above target resulting in a profit share 250 Any PSP award that vests is subject to award subject to an overall cap set Cash flow element Howdens historic PBT a two year holding period.
Threshold: Maximum: Actual 2018 200 cash flow of Cash flow cash flow was Target: Cash Awards of up to 100% of salary were 183.7m flow of 189.6m of 220.2m 224.8m Outcomes for the year paid in cash, with the remainder 150 The 2016 PSP had a threshold deferred as shares, vesting in two requirement of 8% p. a. and a maximum equal tranches, 1 and 2 years following requirement of 20% p. a.
2018 PBT was 100 the deferral date subject to continued 20% of 20% of 8% of 15% of salary 238.5m, and therefore growth on salary salary salary employment.
The award therefore 50 lapsed in full.
Outcomes for the year 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Howdens incurred a one-off charge of 3.8m in respect of GMP equalisation in 2018.
This charge applied to all defined benefit pension schemes and related to the equalisation benefits for men and women in respect of guaranteed minimum pension provision.
Equalisation was only applicable for pre-1997 pensionable service.
Due to the one-off nature of this charge, and because it was both historic and outside of managements control, the Remuneration Committee agreed to exercise discretion and discount the charge in respect of the 2018 bonus.
Recruitment awards Audited Our new CEO, Andrew Livingston forfeited a number of awards from his previous employment on leaving that role, including The adjusted annual PBT figure for the year in relation to the annual bonus is 242.3m.
This is between target and outperformance, performance based awards and awards of restricted shares not subject to performance conditions.
As per our approved 2016 resulting in an annual bonus payout of 92% of salary under the PBT component for 2018.
Cash flow for the year was 224.8m recruitment policy, these awards were replaced by awards of similar structure, fair value, and timing as far as practical.
resulting in a payment under this element of 20% of salary.
Therefore in aggregate Executive directors will receive an annual bonus of 112% of salary for 2018.
Awards not previously subject to performance conditions were replaced with awards of restricted shares, with equivalent remaining periods to release of awards foregone.
PBT Cash flow Total bonus Total bonus Performance based awards were replaced with restricted share awards of an equivalent expected value and release date.
Due % of salary % of salary % of salary 000 to the short period of less than one year between Andrews date of appointment and the original vesting date of the foregone Andrew Livingston 92% 20% 112% 462 performance awards, it was not considered appropriate to apply performance conditions to the replacements for these awards, but Mark Robson 92% 20% 112% 494 rather to mirror the expected value of the number of shares granted.
For 2018 Andrew 131,639 performance based awards vested on 31 March 2018 with a total value of 605,025.
Matthew Ingle former CEO 92% 20% 112% 163 Additionally, Andrew forfeited his 2017 annual bonus on leaving his previous role.
In line with our approved policy, this was replaced Matthew Ingles bonus outcome was pro-rated in respect of time served to his retirement date of 31 July 2018.
As Matthew with a like-for-like cash award of 296,413.
This amount was determined to be an appropriate estimate of the value of the bonus stepped down from the Board on 2 April 2018, the bonus disclosed in the table above is in respect of his time served to this date.
foregone, pro-rated for time in role.
The additional portion earned between 2 April and 31 July is set out in the payment to past directors section on page 100.
Full details of the awards granted to Andrew are set out on page 99.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report % of maximum 94 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 95 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Deferred bonus Remuneration Committee Report Pension LTIP continued IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTOR POLICY IN 2019 OUR CORPORATE PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION Executive Directors TSR performance and historic single figure Base salaries and fees 7,000 3000 140 Base salary increases from 2018 are set out in the table below.
The salary increase awarded to Andrew Livingston is in line with 6,000 120 2500 the average increase that will be made to our workforce in 2019.
5,000 100 2000 Matthew Ingle received his base salary until his retirement date in July 2018.
Andrew Livingston received his salary from his 4,000 80 commencement date in January 2018.
Targets for these measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Annual bonus % of maximum 63% 69% 66% 51% 63% 64% 56% 48% 35% 75% Board and so are not disclosed here.
Performance targets, together with achievement against them, will be set out in full in the 2019 Remuneration Committee Report.
LTI vest % of maximum 0% 0% 100% 100% 89% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% The graph above left illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment Definition Performance level Payout level trusts of which the Company is a constituent.
It shows that over the past ten years Howdens has generated a significantly higher PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax from continuing operations Threshold 20% of salary returns than the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Cash Flow Net cash flow from operating activities, taking into account the efficiency Target 75% of salary The table above shows the historic CEO single figure and incentive pay-out levels and this is also shown as a graph above right.
The with which working capital is used, and adjusted for exceptional items Maximum 150% of salary graph shows that the bonus has recognised consistently strong annual performance, and that long-term incentives have reflected the challenges that faced the Company after 2008 and recognised the turnaround delivered by the Group since then.
Performance Share Plan measure and targets The maximum bonus opportunity reduced from 200% of basic salary to 150% following the approval of the Directors Remuneration The table below sets out PSP performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2019.
Note that for 2019 the maximum Policy by shareholders in May 2016. opportunity under the PSP is 220% in line with the approach taken in 2017 and 2018.
For scheme interests awarded in 2018 see the Appendix on page 98.
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer The graphs below set out the change in short-term pay from 2017 to 2018 of the CEO compared to all employees on a per capita basis.
PBT growth performance condition Payout level PBT component vesting schedule 15% p. a.
220% of salary 100% of maximum CEO All full time employees per capita Straight-line vesting between these points 5% p. a.
0 2.7% 30 -4.0% 624.6 26.3 25.6 600 580.8 25 557.7 20 400 15 -24.0% 302.0 210.1 1.6% 10 200 159.7 0.0% 6.4 6.5 5 0.9 0.9 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 0 0 Salary Benefits Bonus Salary Benefits Bonus 000 000 Single Figure 000s Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 96 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 97 Remuneration Committee Report continued CEO pay ratio table NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Single figure of remuneration Audited Financial year Method 25th percentile pay ratio 50th percentile pay ratio 75th percentile pay ratio The table below sets out the remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors in 2017 and 2018.
2018 A 122:1 100:1 81:1 Remuneration 000 During 2018, Howdens have undertaken an exercise to identify the CEO pay ratio in line with the updates to the Directors Remuneration Non-Executive single figure 2018 2017 Reporting Regulations.
Richard Pennycook 250 250 In accordance with section 17 of The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, method A was used in the calculation of the pay ratios: ranking the pay and benefits of all our UK employees for the relevant financial year to identify the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentileMark Allen 55 55 ranked employees and using the pay and benefits figures for these three UK employees to determine the pay ratios at each quartile.
Karen Caddick 17 Andrew Cripps 65 65 The pay and benefits of our colleagues was calculated in line with the Single Total Figure of Remuneration methodology.
In our calculations we used actual pay from 1 January to 31 December 2018.
Joiners, leavers and part time employees earnings have been Tiffany Hall 75 72 annualised on an FTE basis excluding any payments of a one-off nature.
Geoff Drabble 55 55 Where bonus payments are made on a weekly, monthly or quarterly basis, we included payments made in the 2018 compensation year, Debbie White 55 48 however, for annual bonus payments, we estimated the bonus due to employees for the 2018 compensation year payment is due in Michael Wemms 22 March 2019.
Total 572 567 P11D values have been based on the 2017 18 reportable values, however, have been annualised accordingly.
Our Non-Executive Director fee policy The total pay and benefits and salary of each colleague who is the best equivalent of the 25th, 50th, and 75th ranked employee is as follows: Fees reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Accordingly, Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director fees are paid in addition to the Non-Executive Directors basic fee.
Committee chairmanship fees apply only to the Audit and Remuneration 25th percentile pay ratio 50th percentile pay ratio 75th percentile pay ratio Committees.
The Chairman does not receive a Non-Executive Director basic fee or an additional fee for chairing the Nominations Total pay and benefits FTE 23,763 29,125 35,936 Committee.
Fees are reviewed every year, and are set within a range defined by a market benchmark of comparable size companies.
Benchmarking is typically undertaken every three years.
Fees for 2019 and increases from the prior year are set out below.
Salary including overtime FTE 18,129 23,460 30,821 2019 2018 Due to the appointment of a new CEO during 2018, the CEO single figure combines the pay for both CEOs and includes the Percentage Percentage recruitment award of 1,431,048 1,134,635 shares and 296,413 bonus made to Andrew Livingston.
Excluding this award, Fee increase from 2018 Fee increase from 2017 the ratios would be 62:1 at 25th percentile, 50:1 at 50th percentile and 41:1 at 75th percentile.
Chairman fee 250,000 0% 250,000 0% Basic Non-Executive Director fee 55,000 0% 55,000 0% 10.1% Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 0% 10,000 0% 450 Relative importance of spend on pay 418.2 Committee Chair fee 10,000 0% 10,000 0% The graph to the right sets out the change in the Groups total 400 379.7 remuneration spend from 2017 to 2018 compared to the total returns to shareholders of the Group and the two incentive 350 performance measures PBT and cash flow.
300 -6.5% 2.7% N et cash flow from operating activities, being the definition used for the annual 239.9 250 238.5 232.2 bonus scheme see page 94.
224.2 200 12.2% 150 130.0 115.9 100 50 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2017 0 m m m m Total Spend on Pay Total returns to PBT Cash flow shareholders m Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 98 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 99 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Deferred bonus Remuneration Committee Report Pension LTIP continued APPENDIX Service contracts Notice period In this Appendix a number of key disclosures are set out that provide further clarity to investors and other readers of this report on the All Executive Directors employment contracts have twelve months notice of termination on both sides.
In the event of termination implementation of our remuneration policy in the year under review.
by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary that the Executive would have received if still in employment with the Total pension entitlements Audited Company.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve-month period of their departure of the Company.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan the Plan.
The Plan is not open to new joiners.
Non-Executive Director appointments are for an initial period of three years.
They are subject to re-appointment annually in The table below sets out the accrued pension for the Executive Directors who served during the year, with pension values calculated accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any form of compensation in the using the HMRC method.
No additional benefits become receivable if Executive Directors retire early.
Matthew Ingle had a full funded event of early termination for whatever reason.
pension position in 2006 and hence has chosen to opt out of the memberships of the plan.
Mr Ingle therefore received a salary supplement of 30% of base salary in lieu of pension in 2018.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD Matthew Ingle Former Matthew Ingle retired from his role as CEO on 2 April 2018.
His retirement date from the Group was 31 July 2018 and he continued Current Executive Directors Executive Director to receive his base salary and benefits to that date, during which time he was available to support the transition.
Matthews services Andrew Livingston Mark Robson Matthew Ingle were also retained under a consultancy agreement for an initial period of twelve months following his retirement.
Accrued pension at 29 Dec 2018 000 43 68 During the year Matthew received a pro-rated annual bonus in respect of time served to his retirement date for 2018, with the award Normal retirement date 16 01 2019 28 09 2014 subject to the normal performance targets for 2018 as set out on page 92.
No deferral has been applied to this award.
Pension value in the year from defined benefit component 000 60 Matthew has outstanding unvested awards under the 2016 and 2017 Performance Share Plan which will be pro-rated for the Pension value in the year from defined contribution component 000 87 proportion of the performance period which he was employed and will vest on their normal vesting dates of 5 May 2019 and 27 Pension value in the year from cash allowance 000 83 35 44 March 2020.
As the 2016 award lapsed in full as set out on page 93, Matthew will receive no awards under this plan.
The 2017 Total 83 182 44 Performance Share Plan awards will remain subject to the extent that performance conditions are met.
These awards will not be subject to a post-vest holding period.
Matthew did not receive an award under the 2018 Performance Share Plan.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Audited During 2018 the Executive Directors were invited to participate in the Performance Share Plan, as follows: Andrew Livingston Andrew Livingston was appointed as CEO Designate of the Group on 29 January 2018 and became CEO on 2 April 2018.
Nature of award Restricted shares awarded under the PSP Upon appointment his base salary was 550,000 per annum and he is entitled to receive benefits in line with the normal 1 remuneration policy, together with a salary supplement of 20% of base salary in lieu of pension.
Level of award Executive Number of awarded shares Face value of award CEO 264,770 1,209,999 During 2018, Andrew participated in both the 2018 annual bonus pro-rated for his time in role and the 2018 Performance Share Deputy CEO & CFO 212,298 970,202 Plan as set out on pages 92 and 93.
PBT component PBT growth performance condition Vesting Andrew forfeited a number of awards from his previous employment on leaving that role, including performance based awards and vesting schedule 15% p. a.
220% of salary awards of restricted shares not subject to performance conditions.
As per our approved 2016 recruitment policy, these awards were 100% of maximum replaced by awards of similar structure, fair value, and timing as far as practical.
Straight-line vesting between these points Straight-line vesting Awards not previously subject to performance conditions were replaced with awards of restricted shares, with equivalent remaining 5% p. a.
33% of salary periods to release of awards foregone.
15% of maximum Performance based awards were replaced with restricted share awards of an equivalent expected value and release date.
0 short period of less than one year between Andrews date of appointment and the original vesting date of the foregone performance Performance period Performance measured from FY2018 to FY2020 awards, it was not considered appropriate to apply performance conditions to the replacements for these awards, but rather to mirror the expected value of the number of shares granted.
Vesting date 26 March 2021 1 Based on a share price of 4.57, being the closing price on 23 March 2018.
In total, 249,330 shares have been awarded to replace those forfeited from previous employment with a total value of 1,134,635.
The table below sets out details for each tranche of the replacement awards made to Andrew: Free shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan Audited Number of Face value of Performance 1 Value of Executive awarded shares award Date of grant criteria 1 Number of shares Vesting date shares Andrew Livingston 100 465 6 April 2018 n a 131,639 31 March 2018 605,025 Mark Robson 100 465 6 April 2018 n a 69,397 1 March 2019 312,287 1 Based on a share price of 4.65, being the closing price on 5 April 2018.
48,294 1 March 2020 217,323 1 Based on actual date of vest, or three month average share price to 29 December 2018 of 4.50 if unvested.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 100 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 101 Salary Annual bonus Benefits Deferred bonus Remuneration Committee Report Pension LTIP continued Andrew will retain these shares as part of his shareholding requirement as CEO 200% of salary, subject to disposals to cover tax Non-Executive Director shareholdings Audited liabilities arising.
There is no shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Additionally, Andrew forfeited his 2017 annual bonus on leaving his previous role.
In line with our approved policy, this was replaced Mark Karen Andrew Geoff Tiffany Richard Debbie with a like-for-like cash award of 296,413.
This amount was determined to be an appropriate estimate of the value of the bonus Non-Executive Director: Allen Caddick Cripps Drabble Hall Pennycook White foregone, pro-rated for time in role.
Shareholding: 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 54,663 4,562 Loss of office payments or payments to past directors Audited Matthew Ingle retired from the Board on 2 April 2018 and from the Group on 31 July 2018.
Since the latter date, Matthew has provided No changes to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors total shareholdings including any holdings of their connected persons services under a consultancy agreement.
During 2018 the total amount paid under the consultancy agreement was 95,898. have occurred between the end of the period and 27 February 2019.
For his services provided to the group to 31 July 2018, Matthew received a pro-rated annual bonus award.
In light of the bonus Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration outcome, as set out on page 92, Matthew received a total bonus payout of 302,016.
The figure disclosed in the single figure of The Committee met four times during 2018, and discussed a number of items for which it is responsible.
Under its terms of reference, remuneration table on page 91 represents the period for which he was a director of the company i. e. to 2 April 2018, and as such which are reviewed on an annual basis, the Committee is responsible for determining the broad policy and specific remuneration 139,392 represents a payment to him as a past director.
No deferral will be applied to this award.
packages for Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
The Committee is also regularly updated on pay and conditions applying to other External appointments employees in the Company.
It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills, which will benefit the Company.
Howdens allows Executive Directors and other Voting at the 2018 annual general meeting AGM appropriate senior employees to accept a maximum of one external non-executive appointment outside the Company, subject to The results of the advisory vote in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2018 AGM may be found in the chart below.
permission from the Committee, provided this is not with a competing company nor likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
There was no vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM as it was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2016.
Andrew Livingston is currently a Non-Executive Director of LondonMetric Property Plc, a FTSE250 REIT.
Andrew received 56,785 in The results of the binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM may also be found in the chart below.
fees in respect of his role as Non-Executive Director.
Andrew held this position upon appointment.
Mark Robson does not have any external appointments.
Executive Directors may retain the fees paid to them in respect of their Non-Executive duties.
Advisors to the Committee The Committee regularly consults with the CEO and the Interim Group HR Director on matters concerning remuneration, although Director shareholdings Audited they are never present when their own reward is under discussion.
The Company Chairman attends the Remuneration Committee by In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a invitation except when his own remuneration is determined.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but is never personal shareholding in the Company of at least 200% of salary.
present when his own reward is determined.
The table below sets out the total shares held together with unvested performance shares and those held subject to deferral conditions.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
 LLP PwC is the Committees retained independent advisor and provided advice to the Former Executive Committee during the year.
PwC has been independent advisor to the Committee since 2007, and was appointed by the Committee Current Executive Directors Director as the result of a tender process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updating the Committee on trends in Director Andrew Livingston Mark Robson Matthew Ingle compensation and governance matters and advising the Committee in connection with benchmarking of the total reward Shareholding requirement % 200% 200% packages for the Executive Directors and other senior members AGM VOTING OUTCOMES Shareholding requirement number of shares 244,444 195,778 of staff.
A representative from PwC attends each meeting of 2018 Report Owned outright including connected persons 12,834 202,920 3,007,951 the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation For 96.63% Against 3.19% Withheld 0.18% 4 to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2018 Share awards subject only to continued employment 174,601 300 2017 Report totalled 97,750 with fee levels based on the quantity and Share awards subject to performance conditions and For 94.86% Against 2.86% Withheld 2.27% 5 complexity of work undertaken.
PwC also provided consultancy continued employment 264,770 659,745 advice and support to the internal audit function to the Company Report Options subject to performance conditions For 96.41% Against 2.30% Withheld 1.29% during 2018.
2016 Vested but unexercised options Policy The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the Current shareholding % of salary 11% 207% 2,330% For 96.23% Against 3.75% Withheld 0.02% advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting each year.
Guideline met N Y It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional For Against Withheld 1 B ased on a share price of 4.50, being the three-month average price to 29 December 2018.
This is calculated by using only those shares owned outright by the advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 1 A vote for includes those votes giving the Chairman discretion Executive Directors and their connected persons.
Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to 2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law 2 Figures correct as at 31 August 2018. executive remuneration consulting.
3 Recruitment Plan and Share Incentive Plan 4 Share Incentive Plan 5 Performance Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan By order of the Board Tiffany Hall Remuneration Committee Chair 27 February 2019 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 102 Ho How wden den J Jo oi in ner ery y G Gr ro ou up p P Plc lc A Ann nnu ua al Re l Rep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 103 102 103 Audit Committee Report I I IN N NT T TR R ROD OD ODU U UC C CT T TION ION ION F F FR R ROM OM OM T T THE HE HE C C CH H HA A AI I IR R R OF OF OF T T THE HE HE A A AU U UD D DI I IT T T C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E M M ME E EE E ETIN TIN TING G G A A AT T TTE TE TEN N ND D DAN AN ANC C CE E E The Audit Committee is a central pillar of effective corporate As reported previously, it is the Committees intention to review The figures below show the number of meetings individual the Finance function and senior representatives of the external governance.
It provides our shareholders and other their appointment annually and that a new external auditor Directors that served on the Audit Committee during the year auditors, are regularly invited by the Committee Chair to attend all stakeholders with assurance on the integrity of the financial will be engaged no later than 2022 which is in line with the could have attended taking account of eligibility, appointment or part of the meetings as and when appropriate.
It also provides assurance regarding the transitional arrangements for auditor rotation published by the and retirement dates during the year and the percentage of those however, reserves the right to request any non-members robustness of internal controls in preventing and detecting Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.
Further meetings they actually attended.
withdraw from any meeting at any time.
information regarding external audit tender planning may be found on page 107.
The Chairman of the Board, along with the Chief Executive Officer, The Committee meets at least three times a year at appropriate The role, profile and agenda of our Audit Committee has evolved Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance intervals in the financial reporting and audit cycle and at any other in recent years to reflect the fact that stakeholders are looking Of course the Audit Committees remit is broader than the Director, Head of Internal Audit and Risk, representatives from time the Chair of the Committee requires it.
for ever greater assurance from audit committees.
This is review of financial reporting and the annual audit.
The Groups particularly true given the increasingly uncertain political and Internal Audit function supports the Committees review of economic environments in which we live.
internal controls and during 2018 this included facilitating the Committees review of the Companys implementation of the Andrew Mark Karen Geoff Tiffany Debbie The Audit Committees work in reviewing financial statements is General Data Protection Regulation GDPR plan across the Cripps Allen Caddick Drabble Hall White supported by Deloitte LLP Deloitte, our independent external business.
The Internal Audit Plan is regularly reviewed by the auditor.
Deloitte have been the Companys auditor since Committee to ensure it is fully aligned to the Boards strategy No.
of 2002 when the audit was last tendered.
Their effectiveness and the latest thinking on the risks facing the business.
Further meetings 3 3 1 3 3 3 and independence have been monitored closely by the Audit information regarding Committee actions and review of the 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Attendance Committee to ensure robust and objective audits are undertaken.
Internal Audit function may be found on page 109.
The Audit Committee is therefore pleased to recommend that our shareholders reappoint Deloitte as the external auditor at our During 2019, the Committee will continue to monitor the integrity AGM on 2 May 2019. of financial statements and formal announcements relating 1 Karen was appointed to the Audit Committee on 7 September 2018 to financial performance, review internal controls, review and Denotes Chair of Committee monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, and the effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor.
TRADE ONLY Audit Committee Terms of Reference www.
com investors governance audit index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 104 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Audit Committee Report continued S S Sup up upp p por or ort t ti i in n ng g g a a ac c ct t ti i ion on ons s s, , p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss s se e es s s a a an n nd d d i i in n nf f for or orm m ma a at t ti i ion on on: : : FINANCIAL REPORTING The external auditor provided reports to the Committee which A A Ar r rea ea eas o s o s of S f S f Si i ig g gn n ni i ifi fi fic c ca a an n nt F t F t Fi i ina na nan n nc c ci i ial Ju al Ju al Jud d dg g ge e em m me e en n nt t t R R Ro o ol l le o e o e of t f t f th h he A e A e Au u ud d di i it C t C t Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee e e: : : considered the appropriateness of provisions held against the The Committee exercises its judgement in deciding the areas Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial carrying value of inventory, while also having regard to the age of accounting that are significant to the Groups accounts.
The performance of discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to external auditor reports detailed results oftheir procedures in Review accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements contained in financial statements or announcements the expected usage and the levels of historical write-offs.
relation to these significant areas to theCommittee.
although the Board as a whole remains responsible for determining whether the Annual Reports and Accounts as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable V V Va a al l lid id idi i it t ty y y o o of f f t t the he he a a ac c ct t tu u ua a ar r ri i ia a al l l a a as s ssump sump sumpt t ti i ion on ons s s The matters shown below have been discussed with the Deputy The triennial pension funding valuation was completed in the Chief Executive & Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance Director Review the going concern report and the report on the longer-term viability of the business, prior to consideration by the Board first half of 2018, after which time the pension assumptions for and the external auditor, and the Committee is satisfied that the IAS 19 valuation were updated to those used for the latest each of the matters have been fully and adequately addressed triennial valuation.
The Committee noted that using revised by the Executive Committee, appropriately tested and reviewed FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED mortality tables CMI 2016 compared with those used for the by the external auditor, and the disclosures made in the Annual previous valuation CMI 2013 led to a reduction in assumed life Report and Accounts are appropriate.
expectancy which significantly reduced the net pension deficit.
C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E A A AC C CT T TION ION IONS S S I I IF F FR R RS 1 S 1 S 16 L 6 L 6 Lea ea eas s se e es s s This deficit reduced from 109m at the end of 2017 to 36m Inventory obsolescence provisioning This accounting standard requires the capitalisation of A A Au u ud d di i it C t C t Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee R e R e Re e evie vie view w w at this balance sheet date reflecting the changed actuarial materially all leased assets, with the corresponding present The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups 2018 Annual assumptions as well as significant continuing contributions to value of lease obligations to be recognised in the balance Report and Accounts and the half-yearly financial report Validity of the actuarial assumptions the fund by the Company and the return on funds invested in sheet.
In the income statement, in place of operating lease published in July 2018. the scheme.
The Committee carefullyconsidered: expenses, depreciation on these assets will be charged to R R Re e ec c co o og g gn n ni i it t ti i io o on o n o n of r f r f re e ev v five e en n nu u ue e e p p pr r re e es s su u um m me e ed r d r d ri i is s sk k k As part of these reviews, the Committee received reports from operating profit and the implicit interest cost recognised whether the actuarial assumptions, and in particular the Deloitte on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts as a finance expense.
This standard will be applicable for discount, inflation and mortality assumptions, applied were Area of significant Area of significant and review of the half-yearly financial report which took into accounting periods commencing 1 January 2019 and therefore appropriate: and financial judgement financial judgement account the Groups key risks, going concern considerations the Group will adopt the standard in its 2020 financial year, the views of the external auditors.
in 2018 and 2017 in 2017 and longer-term viability.
The Committee also met with the Groups external actuaries The Committee also considered whether the Annual Report The Committee has overseen preparatory work conducted by I I In n nv v five e en n nt t tor or ory y y ob ob obs s so o ole le les s sc c ce e enc nc nce e e p p pr r ro o ov v vi i isi si sion on oni i in n ng g g during the year and considered their recommendations.
and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and the Company, which has included the identification and scrutiny The Groups in-stock model further information about which contained the information necessary for shareholders to of all applicable leases, selection of appropriate software and may be found on page 14 and the scale of our product range 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 Ar Ar Are e ea a a o o of f f S S Si i ign gn gni i ific fic fica a an n nt t t F F Fi i in n na a an n nc c ci i ia a al l l J J Jud ud udg g gem em emen en ent t t assess the Companys position, performance, business consideration of transition methods.
necessitates tight management of our inventory to ensure Recognition of revenue presumed risk model, and strategy.
local availability of stock while at the same time minimising In accordance with ISA 240, there is a presumed fraud risk The Group expects to enter further significant leases for obsolescence and wastage.
with regard to revenue recognition.
its new distribution centre at Raunds in 2019, which will F F Fi i ina na nan n nc c ci i ial c al c al co o on n nt t tr r ro o ol l ls s s form a substantial part of the new disclosure.
As a result it The Committee received a report from the Head of Internal Audit The Committee reviewed the results of stock counts and the is premature to make an estimate of the impact of the new on the results of key control questionnaires prepared by Group processes used to value each category of inventory, including standard, but the Committee will continue to monitor progress and Divisional management.
The effectiveness of the Groups the assumptions behind obsolescence provisions, with during the current year.
In accordance with existing accounting internal financial controls with specific reference to controls management.
standards, the operating lease commitments at the balance in place on a divisional basis and the disclosures made in the sheet date are set out in note 23.
Annual Report and Accounts on this matter were reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 106 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107 Audit Committee Report continued EXTERNAL AUDITOR EXTERNAL AUDITOR CONTINUED E E Ex x xt t ter er ern n na a al l l a a aud ud udi i it t t t t ten en ender der der R R Ro o ol l le o e o e of t f t f th h he A e A e Au u ud d di i it C t C t Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee e e: : : A A Aud ud udi i it t to o or r r I I In n ndep dep depen en enden den denc c ce e e As reported in last years Annual Report, the Audit Committee Make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the remuneration Auditor independence is an essential part of the audit has decided that it will engage a new external auditor no later and terms of engagement of the external auditor framework and the assurance it provides.
The Committee than 2022 following the conclusion of the current five-year lead therefore undertook a comprehensive review of auditor Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into audit partner cycle.
The Committee will keep the need to reindependence during 2018, which included: consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements tender the external audit under review until this time.
Review the external auditors audit plans and Audit Committee reports A review of the independence of the external auditor and the In coming to this decision, the Audit Committee considered Develop, implement and monitor the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into arrangements which they have in place to identify, report and the transitional arrangements published by the Department of account relevant legislation and ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm manage conflicts of interest Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy in 2015, which provide Consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditor that the Company cannot renew Deloittes appointment as through a review of their plan of work and the outputs arising S S Sup up upp p por or ort t ti i in n ng g g a a ac c ct t ti i ion on ons s s, , p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss s se e es s s a a an n nd d d i i in n nf f for or orm m ma a at t ti i ion on on: : : external auditor beyond June 2023, given it has been the from the audit external auditor for over eleven years but less than twenty years.
A review of the changes in key external audit staff for the current year and the arrangements for the day-to-day The Committee also considered the UK Corporate Governance E E Ex x xte te ter r rn n na a al l l Au Au Aud d di i ito to tor r r A A Au u ud d di i it t tor or or E E Ef f ff f fe e ec c ct t ti i iv v five e ene ne fines s ss s s management of the audit relationship Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, which To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the External auditor: Deloitte LLP Deloitte provide that the external audit should be re-tendered at least Committee reviewed: Consideration of the overall extent of non-audit services every ten years and that this process should fit in with the lead provided by the external auditor, in addition to case-by-case External auditor tenure: 17 years The proposed plan of work presented by the external auditor, audit partner five-year rotation.
approval of the provision of non-audit services as appropriate Latest a new external auditor including audit risks, materiality, terms of engagement and Deliberation of the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor will be engaged : 2022 Deloitte has expressed their willingness to continue in office as fees prior to commencement of the 2018 audit from the market and note taken of the fact that there auditor and the Committee has unanimously recommended to Lead audit partner: Claire Faulkner The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of the Board that a proposal to reappoint them as the auditor and and any variations from the plan externalauditor Lead audit partner tenure: 2 years of a 5 year cycle to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration is put to the Perceptions and professional scepticism of the external shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2019.
The information in the table above was correct at 29 December 2018.
At the year-end, the external auditor formally confirmed that they auditor and audit process from key management personnel had complied with the requirements of the FRC Ethical Standard Further information about external auditor tender plans may be found on page 107. in the finance function as well as internal requirements and their independence and Robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their objectivity had been maintained.
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements Internal control and risk content of the external auditors report P P Pe e er r rf f fo o or r rm m ma a an n nc c ce E e E e Ex x xp p pe e ec c ct t tat at atio io ion n ns f s f s fo o or t r t r th h he E e E e Ex x xt t te e er r rnal A final A final Au u ud d di i it t to o or r r Specific auditor responsibilities Wider auditor responsibilities Discuss audit approach and areas of focus in advance Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues Report issues at all levels within the Company in a timely fashion Serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice trends in reporting Ensure clarity of roles and responsibilities between local Deloitte and Howdens Finance teams Adhere to all independence policies Respond to any issues raised by management on a Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach for the timely basis Group that reflects local risks and materiality Meet agreed deadlines Liaise with the Howdens Internal Audit and Risk team to avoid duplication of work Provide continuity and succession planning of key staff members of Deloitte Provide consistency in advice at all levels Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft Ultimately, provide a high quality service to the Board, auditors reports and respond to requests and queries be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity Ensure consistent communication between local and central audit teams Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 2 2 201 01 018 8 8 2 2 20 0 017 17 17 108 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 109 Audit Committee Report continued EXTERNAL AUDITOR CONTINUED CONTROLS AND INTERNAL AUDIT Policy for non-audit services provided by the The policy specifies a fide minimus limit as well as the type of R R Ro o ol l le o e o e of t f t f th h he A e A e Au u ud d di i it C t C t Co o om m mm m mi i it t tt t te e ee e e: : : non-audit work that the auditor may be engaged in without external auditor Monitor the Groups internal financial controls throughout the year the matter first being referred to the Audit Committee, which The main aims of this policy are to: Review the Groups financial risk management processes, systems and reports although the Board as a whole remains considers each referral on a case-by-case basis.
responsible for overseeing the overall risk profile of the business Ensure the independence of the auditor in performing the Oversee the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function and ensure that its findings are used effectively The policy aims to ensure that in providing non-audit services statutory audit: and the auditor does not audit its own work or make management Avoid any conflict of interest by clearly detailing the types of decisions for the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The policy work that the auditor can and cannot undertake.
S S Sup up upp p por or ort t ti i in n ng g g a a ac c ct t ti i ion on ons s s, , p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss s se e es s s a a an n nd d d i i in n nf f for or orm m ma a at t ti i ion on on: : : also clarifies responsibilities for the agreement of fees payable for non-audit work.
The Audit Committee reviewed and updated the policy for non-audit services in 2018 to ensure that it was in line with the C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E A A AC C CT T TION ION IONS S S W W WH H HI I IS S ST T TL L LE E EB B BL L LO O OW W WI I ING NG NG P P POL OL OLIC IC ICY Y Y External auditor fees amended FRC ethical standards, UK Corporate Governance The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for I I In n nte te ter r rn n na a al l l Au Au Aud d di i it t t All relevant fees proposed by the external auditor must be Code and best practice.
all employees to have access to a confidential outsourced During the year, the Committee reviewed: reported to and approved by the Audit Committee.
service, which allows calls and emails to be received in multiple The regulation substantially limits the non-audit services Internal Audits programme of work and resources languages, 24 hours a day.
The policy is reviewed annually.
Details of the total fees, including non-audit fees, paid during which can be provided by the auditor.
The policy provides: the year to Deloitte are set out in the chart below and in note 6 Results of key audits and other significant findings including Complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, to the consolidated financial statements.
A 70% cap of the value of the audit fee for all non-audit the adequacy and timeliness of managements response auditing issues and related matters are reported to the Audit services calculated on a rolling three-year basis.
The level and nature of assurance activity performed by Committee as appropriate.
In 2018, the Committee received a The only non-audit services provided by Deloitte in the year was The following services as categories that are prohibited Internal Audit report on the activity reported under the Groups whistleblowing their review of the half-yearly financial report.
No advisory work from being carried out by the auditor: Staffing, reporting and effectiveness of divisional audit policy and the issues raised and investigated under this policy was requested from the auditor.
tax calculation services were formally reviewed by the Committee.
The Audit Committee also has a policy in relation to the F F Fra ra rau u ud R d R d Ri i is s sk k k actuarial and other valuation services employment of former members of the external audit team.
The Committee considered the controls in place to mitigate IN IN INDE fide DEP P PE E EN N NDE fide DENT NT NT R R RE E EV V VIE IE IEW W W O O OF F F TH TH THE E E INTE INTE INTER R RN N final AL AL fraud risk.
A A AU U UD D DI I IT T T A A AND ND ND R R RI I IS S SK K K F F FU U UNC NC NCT T TION ION ION An independent review of the Internal Audit and Risk function D D Di i ivi vi vis s sio io ional C final C final Co o on n nt t tr r ro o ol l ls s s was carried out by Grant Thornton during 2017 in line with the Senior management from the business were invited to discuss Audit Committees policy to perform an external review of the the controls in their business areas.
The Director of Commercial functions every five years.
Finance and Head of Compliance of the Trade division gave presentations on the control environments in their area.
During 2018, the committee considered the effectiveness of the internal audit function and concluded that it remained effective, An update on the IT control environment was presented by the well-led, and had a clear remit.
Updates on cyber and information security and the General Data Protection Regulation were also provided by the Head of Information Systems Security and Head of Legal.
I I In n ndep dep depen en enden den dent t t A A As s ss s su u ur r ra a an n nc c ce e e The Committee assessed the coverage of independent assurance by reviewing the annual internal audit plan against the Group assurance map.
In addition, the Committee reviewed reports on preparedness to manage crises, business continuity and product recall.
It also received reports on the scope of preparations for the UKs exit from the EU.
Audit Fees Non-Audit Fees Total fees paid to Deloitte 0.1m 0.5m 0.1m 0.5m Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 110 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 111 Audit Committee Report continued GOVERNANCE Role of the Audit Committee: To be aware of technical, regulatory and governance changes applicable to the work of the Committee Review any interests a Director has which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company Case Study: Pension Assumptions Review its own performance, constitution and terms of reference once a year to ensure it is operating effectively The analysis of pension assumptions remained a key area of focus for the Audit Committee during the year.
Report to shareholders on its activities in the Annual Report At the February 2018 Audit Committee meeting, the Committee considered the Companys approach to key assumptions behind calculation of the net pension fund deficit, and particularly those relating Supporting actions, processes and information: to mortality rates.
Hymans Robertson, the Companys actuaries, presented current practice and contributed to the meeting.
The Committee noted that: COMMITTEE ACTIONS COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Cash contributions to the fund by the Group are determined from triennial valuations prepared on the funding or Technical Provisions basis see note 19 The Committee is composed entirely of independent Governance Updates Non-Executive Directors.
Independence is critical for fair Updates on the latest governance practices for Audit Latest mortality tables CMI 2016 showed earlier mortality than those used in the Groups last assessment of the management team and the external Committees and changes in reporting requirements were funding valuation CMI 2013 and hence a potentially lower deficit and internal audit functions.
provided by the external auditor.
The Groups policy of only updating non-financial assumptions, particularly mortality tables, after completion of each triennial funding valuation has been consistently applied year on year All members of the Audit Committee are also members of the Chair Deloitte Academy, which provides in-depth updates on financial Andrew Cripps was appointed Audit Committee Chair in May The assumptions were within the external auditors benchmark ranges.
He is responsible for determining the Committees The Committee discussed the IAS 19 deficit relative to the Technical Provisions deficit and the external agenda and for maintaining the key relationships between the auditor and Audit Committee concluded that the assumptions remained appropriate for the Company.
Committee Effectiveness Groups senior management, Head of Risk and Internal Audit, When the Audit Committee considered pensions assumptions at the half-year in July, it was noted that An effectiveness review was carried out on the Committee and the Company Secretary and senior representatives of the the triennial pension scheme valuation had been finalised and that Hymans Robertson had updated its members as part of the Boards wider evaluation process external auditor.
the IAS 19 pension assumptions to be consistent with the valuation.
The effect was to reduce the further details may be found on page 78.
Andrew is also responsible for ensuring that key audit issues are net balance sheet liability and it was noted that the appropriate disclosures had been made.
The The Committee also reviewed its own effectiveness by reported to the Board in an effective and timely manner and that assumptions continued to be within the external auditors benchmark ranges.
In addition, the external completing an Audit Committee effectiveness tool.
The they are reported to shareholders via the Annual Report.
auditor noted that the degree of conservatism had reduced since the year-end in light of the updated review encompassed a mix of qualitative and regulatory pension assumptions following conclusion of the triennial review.
considerations as well as reviewing Committee structure, Recent and relevant financial experience At the 2018 external audit planning meeting, the Committee noted that the FRC had published responsibilities and reporting.
Andrew Cripps qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG The Audit of Defined Benefit Pension Obligations report which highlighted that it expected Audit and has held executive director roles in the UK and Europe Committees and auditors to discuss the findings and consider whether the audit approach could be Both reviews concluded that the current mix of financial, with Rothmans International, where he was Corporate Finance enhanced.
The Committee considered that this would include the following: commercial and relevant sector experience of the Audit Director.
More recently, Andrew has been Audit Committee Committee, and that of its advisors, is such that the Committee Challenge the assumptions used in calculating the pension deficit as at the year-end and assess Chairman of a number of public companies.
can effectively exercise its responsibilities to the Group in whether these were reasonable, in particular those key assumptions relating to the discount rate, relation to risk and controls.
Competence relevant to the sector The unique business model of Howdens means it does not The external auditor to discuss with the Groups actuaries the methods used to calculate the Terms of Reference naturally fit into one sector and therefore when the Committee assumptions and review the actuarial valuations prepared for compliance with the accounting and The Committee reviewed its terms of reference to reflect undertook an assessment of its skills and experience it disclosure requirements.
changes in best practice and in particular the updated UK assessed them against a number of sectors relevant to the Corporate Governance Code.
Deloitte to engage with in-house pension specialists to benchmark the pension assumptions used Company.
These included building and construction, multiagainst internal benchmarks and other companies in the industry.
site wholesale, manufacturing and logistics, and service Policies and Conflicts tocustomers.
Assess the design and implementation of the controls in place relating to validity of pension The Committee reviewed its policies in relation to allocation of assumptions.
non-audit work further detail on this policy may be found on The Committee concluded that competence relevant to these Whilst not considered to be a significant risk, Deloittes Pensions Centre of Excellence would carry page 108 and employment of ex-audit firm personnel.
It also sectors was well represented within the current membership out testing of pension assets.
reviewed the Directors conflicts of interest register.
and that the thorough inductions provided to the Committee members and the opportunities for them to meet with senior The Committee further reviewed pension assumptions at its meeting in February 2019, concluding that CMA Order Compliance management and Executives further enhanced their working these remained appropriate, individually and collectively.
Controls over the completeness and valuation The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied knowledge of the way the Company operates and the sectors of pension fund assets were also discussed.
with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority it spans.
Order throughout its financial year ended 29 December 2018 and up to the date of this report.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 112 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 113 Directors Report Audit Committee Report continued The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2019 and the audited financial statements for the 52 week As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee It will continue to consider the Companys governance period ended 29 December 2018.
Comparative figures concludes that it acted in accordance with its terms of arrangements and review the Committees terms of reference.
reference during the period and has ensured the independence relate to the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2017.
The Committee has decided to increase the frequency of its and objectivity of the external auditors.
meetings to allow more scope to review developments in internal In order to make our Annual Report and Accounts more accessible a number of the sections traditionally found in this report can The Committee will continue to consider all of the matters controls outside the annual reporting cycle.
In addition, the now be found in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts where it was deemed that the information would be presented set out in this report for which it has primary responsibility in Committee will review the implementation of IFRS 16, the results in a more connected and accessible way.
The Directors report comprises the sections detailed below, including the statement on relation to financial statements, reporting and controls, the of which will be detailed in the 2019 Audit Committee report.
work of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function.
Any sections that have been moved have been cross-referenced below for ease of reference: Located in the Strategic Report: Located in the Corporate Social Responsibility By order of the Board Report: Principal Group activities, business review and results: The principal activities of Howden Joinery Group Plc and its Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Details of the Groups greenhouse subsidiaries can be found on pages 5 to 57. gas emissions, as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Andrew Cripps Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Audit Committee Chair Dividend: Information about the final dividend can be found Regulation 2008 SI 2008 410 as amended by the Companies in the Chairmans Statement on page 7 and the Review of 27 February 2019 Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations Finance and Operations on page 27.
Non-financial reporting: Our compliance with the NonEmployees: Information about employee participation in Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections the Howden Joinery Share Incentive Plan can be found on 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 can be page 48. found on page 114.
Going Concern, Viability and other Statements of the Located in the Corporate Governance Report: Directors: These statements may be found on pages 38 and 39.
Share capital, substantial shareholdings and acquisition of the Companys own shares: Information Principal Risks and Uncertainties: The Groups principal in this regard can be found on page 66. risks and uncertainties and information on the Groups F F FIN IN INAN AN ANC C CI I IAL AL AL INTE INTE INTEG G GR R RI I IT T TY Y Y AN AN AND D D INTE INTE INTER R RN N final AL AL C C CO O ONTR NTR NTRO O OL L LS S S approach to risk and the risk management process may Directors: Details of Directors who served during the year be found on pages 32 to 37. and up to the date of signing may be found on page 59.
Details of Directors and their interests are on pages 100 and 101 and details of Directors Indemnity and Insurance Located in the Nominations Committee Report: on page 68.
Directors: Information with regard to the appointment and Annual General Meeting: Information about the replacement of Directors is located on page 74.
Co Co Con n ntr tr tro o ol l ls s s F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al Annual General Meeting, including reappointment of the E E Ex x xt t te e er r rnal final final a a an n nd d d R R Re e ep p por or orti ti tin n ng g g Au Au Aud d di i it t ts s s in in int t te e er r rnal final final G G Go o ov v five e er r rnan nan nanc c ce e e Groups auditor, can be found on page 66.
A copy of the Employees: Information about the total number of au au aud d di i it t ts s s UK Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at employees and gender diversity statistics are located www.
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group made no political donations during the current and previous periods.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
