72 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 73 Nominations Committee Report I I IN N NT T TR R ROD OD ODU U UC C CT T TION ION ION F F FR R ROM OM OM T T THE HE HE C C CH H HA A AI I IR R R OF OF OF T T THE HE HE C C COMMI OMMI OMMIT T TT T TE E EE E E M M ME E EE E ETIN TIN TING G G A A AT T TTE TE TEN N ND D DAN AN ANC C CE E E With succession comes change and with change some The Committee also oversaw Andy Gaults appointment to the The Committee meets at least twice a year and at any Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
As uncertainty about future execution and impacts on the culture Executive Committee and the formation of a diversity working other such time as the Chair of the Committee requires.
additional governance, the Committee terms of reference require of the business.
Ensuring that there are robust succession group.
Specific updates were provided from management In 2018 we met 4 times.
Only the attendance of members that any Director joining the Committee must have completed plans in place at both Board and Executive level is fundamental on organisational design and Group benefits in additional to of this committee is shown in the table below, although their period of induction with the Company.
Subject to successful to the long term prospects of the business.
It is the job of the the routine business of the Nominations Committee which is other Directors, where appropriate, have also attended annual re-election to the Board, appointments to the Nominations Nominations Committee to ensure that the succession plans considered in more detail throughout this report.
at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
Committee are for a period of three years, which may be extended leverage the opportunities of change whilst minimising the risks.
by the Committee provided the Director remains independent.
The last external Board effectiveness review was undertaken in In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and Succession planning for a high-performing founder CEO 2016 and we will externally facilitate this review again in 2019. the Committees terms of reference, during the year the presents a particular challenge given that the business and its The 2018 review was undertaken in line with policy to externally Nominations Committee consisted wholly of independent culture has been formed in the founders image.
It is not limited facilitate every three years and as such was undertaken to identifying and securing the services of a suitable successor.
by the Senior Independent Director with support from the Richard Mark Andrew Geoff Tiffany Debbie Ensuring that there is a rigorous induction programme and Company Secretary.
More detail about the methodology and Pennycook Allen Drabble Cripps Hall White smooth transition period are of equal importance.
We consider recommendations can be found on page 78. this in more detail in the case study on page 76.
of The updated UK Corporate Governance Code places the onus on meetings In addition to the work undertaken on CEO succession, during Nominations Committees to look beyond the Board and to the 4 4 4 4 4 4 2018 the Nominations Committee also considered succession Group as a whole when considering matters such as succession Attendance 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% planning for the Board as a whole and in particular, the and diversity.
We welcome the changes and the understanding succession of the Remuneration Committee Chair and Senior that the Board and the Company should be completely aligned Nominations Committee Terms of Reference www.
com investors governance nomination index.
asp Independent Director Tiffany Hall.
This culminated in the in terms of policies, practices and culture.
I look forward to recommendation to the Board to appoint Karen Caddick.
Karen developing these themes further in the 2019 Nominations Denotes Chair of Committee will shadow Tiffany as Remuneration Committee Chair for twelve Committee report.
months as we take our Remuneration Policy out for shareholder approval.
Karen has a broad skill set which will complement the Boards other strengths but in particular she will have a key role in providing non-executive support to the business people, colleague inclusion and diversity agendas.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
