44 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45 2018 Group Statements of Intent Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety We believe that all employees have a right to work in a We intend to match our commitment to growth and safe and healthy environment and we intend to carry development with a continued focus on being a responsible out our business without putting employees, or others, company.
We are committed to ensuring that our business health or physical wellbeing at risk.
remains worthwhile for all concerned.
The Board of Directors The Board of Directors The directors recognise their commitment and complement the cultural variances across the We are mindful of Howdens responsibilities Regardless of what part of the business they responsibility to ensure adequate health and Group.
Each division should also engage external concerning energy use, waste reduction, operate, we expect all our employees to share the safety provision for all staff, customers and partners and undertake appropriate benchmarking ethical and sustainable sourcing of materials, same intent and purpose: contractors.
to ensure that there are no skills or knowledge gaps.
and support and enrichment of the local To reduce our impact on our environment communities in which we operate, even in the The central idea of Howdens is that it should be We have made good progress on health and safety to wherever possible by reducing energy use and face of increasing demands on our resources.
Putting this into date but the next step of our journey is to strengthen waste production relative to revenue practice wanting others to do well, not just the effectiveness of our existing processes with With over 690 depots throughout the UK, we Where we source products from third parties, to ourselves is what sets Howdens apart, and what increased emphasis on a safety culture.
are a local business with national scale and ensure that we undertake due diligence to ensure will guarantee its future.
therefore have unique responsibilities to all of that they conduct their business in an ethical way The Board of Directors, the communities in which we operate.
To ensure that we minimise as far as possible the Fundamental to this idea is that we keep our Howden Joinery Group Plc risk of Modern Slavery in either our own business employees safe at work.
Weve got around 9,600 or those in our supply chain employees in the UK and Europe and counting and we need to keep them all safe.
There should be no To support and encourage our staff to help local compromise on health and safety.
charities and community organisations To offer rewarding careers and create an Our two operational divisions and central functions environment to attract, develop, motivate and whilst different operationally and in their deployment reward employees of high calibre methodologies, share the same intent and purpose: To support the training of apprentices where this is appropriate in the business To provide a safe and healthy working environment We will continue to focus on the main areas of To prevent workplace accidents and reduce the importance to us and to our stakeholders.
risk of potential long-term health effects Where incidents occur, to learn from those The Board of Directors, instances by improving awareness and Howden Joinery Group Plc processes To ensure performance metrics and near miss reporting are continually reviewed to identify risk and improvement opportunities To make our safety messages engaging and accessible To foster a positive Health and Safety culture amongst our workforce by ensuring engagement and positive challenge We will continue to share best demonstrated practice across the divisions.
This will ensure performance improvements beyond compliance to legislation, codes and standards and will Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 46 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47 Responsible for all or part of the pensions of over Our impact on our 320m 260m of tax generated or collected of working capital extended to over 17,000 people Corporation Tax, NI, stakeholders Employing people in PAYE, and VAT 260m cash contributed to pension funds in last 5 years 410,000 over700 small businesses in our peak trading period No fees, up to 8 weeks to pay communities 420m 9,600 400 of wages, salaries full-time jobs with prospects and benefits paid to employees in UK manufacturing, apprentices currently in our local trade depots in training and in distribution, systems tailored apprentice and support programmes across the Group 44m 3,600 131m 14th of capital investment in the year other charity donations, returned to shareholders anniversary of partnership with 98.5% Investing in UK manufacturing, 1.4m given to local charities in dividends and buybacks Leonard Cheshire Disability and expanding our depot network and community activities Significant support of manufacturing waste 100% of UK employees 0.75m donated in 2018 for a sustainable UK recycled or reused in share ownership Supporting young, disabled adults to forestry industry schemes 12,000 tonnes of sawdust converted find valuable roles within their to energy to heat our factories communities 3 Over 65m 240,000m of rent paid to around 650 of chipboard from managed commercial landlords forests in the UK Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 48 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 49 Our people One of the larger programmes weve been delivering in 2018 colleges to develop bespoke apprentice programmes, tailored to the Keeping them safe, offering them rewarding careers has been to support and increase the skills of our kitchen sales specific skills and development needs of our apprentices, and which designers.
Incorporating input from the most successful designers also fit the needs and demands of a growing modern business.
in our depot network, we developed a 5 day tailored programme Weve increased the number of apprentices in the business in 2018 focused on customer service and selling skills.
So far weve Keeping our people safe and we currently have apprentices working and learning skills in delivered this training to over 500 designers and we hope to see Focusing on a safety culture, making safety messages more accessible areas such as sales, customer service, warehouse work, business the results in increased sales, which should lead to increased admin, HR, manufacturing, engineering, IT, design, truck driving and employee bonuses.
See below for a case study on Accident severity rate We employ 400 apprentices throughout the business, offering a our truck driving apprentice scheme.
KPI range of worthwhile futures and high-quality  38% reduction 20142018 Find out more about working with Howdens, and see our current RIDDORs 100k hours worked qualifications to people across the country.
We work with local vacancies on our careers website at https: careers.
70 36% reduction 20142018 0.25 60 50 0.20 40 Case Study: truck driving apprenticeships 0.15 30 Weve invested a lot of money in our truck fleet, aimed at making The apprenticeship is a pioneering initiative in the fleet it as safe and energy-efficient as possible, as we explained in a industry and we were very proud this year when 3 of our 0.09 20 0.10 detailed feature in our 2017 Sustainability Report.
employees became the first people in the UK to complete it.
The 12-month programme consists of both practical and 10 One of the main things that can affect safety and efficiency theory elements, and throughout their training each of the 0.05 is the skills and behaviour of our drivers.
We make use of apprentices has the benefit of working with an existing driver advanced in-cab driver monitoring software in conjunction buddy as well as ongoing feedback and mentoring from our 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 with daily driver debriefs so that we can support and reward 0.05 fleet management team.
Accident severity rate hours lost to accidents 100k hours worked 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 good driving habits.
Apprentices spend a block of time at our warehouse, doing Good drivers are hard to come by, so weve invested in their initial training.
Before they take their test they spend We have got around 9,600 employees and we need to keep them Am I safe to trade today Are WE safe to trade today?
This is developing the new generation of drivers by training our 68 weeks shadowing an existing driver out on the roads, all safe at work.
We continue to invest in safe processes, safe plant featured in a case study on pages 50 and 51. own from scratch.
Weve recruited staff who dont have a seeing how its done the Howdens way.
After passing the and machinery and whilst our Reportable Injury Rate shows a slight heavy goods driving licence and, together with a third party test, they spend a further 48 weeks being shadowed and In our factories and logistics operations, we have launched a increase in 2018, we are still performing significantly better than the driver training agency, weve put them through a structured mentored by an experienced driver before finally taking to the behavioural safety commitment programme, Safe to Supply, which UK national average for workplace accidents.
apprentice programme so that they gain their driving roads on their own.
has seen 1,500 people briefed this year.
The briefings emphasised qualification and also learn the high standards that we We have always committed to developing, implementing and that the Howdens culture is committed to safety, and encouraged all expect from a Howdens driver.
improving safe systems of work, and this has continued during 2018. employees to feel empowered to take responsibility for themselves The focus on the next leg of our journey is to strengthen this with and their team.
One simple but effective 2018 initiative is to an increased emphasis on a safety culture where we support and encourage staff to Press Pause for Safety, and take the time to ask empower employees to share our aims.
Am I safe, and are my workmates safe?
TRADE ONLY 2018 marked a milestone in the way we implement and manage We continue to work with other leading companies and external safety across our depot network, with the roll out of our unique consultants to share best practice, to help us benchmark and to Safe to Trade toolkit and software.
All of our depot staff have been learn and challenge ourselves.
We hope that these actions will retrained using this new model which has empowered them to ask improve our safety record even further in the future.
Offering rewarding careers Great rewards, great opportunities to develop, pioneering apprentice schemes We pay a good basic salary: all of our pay rates are above living wage Part of our culture and our business model is that we offer staff the and most of them are well above it.
We also offer a range of benefits, chance to get significant bonuses for exceptional performance and including pension schemes which we contributed 50m to in 2018, that we invest in our staff to offer them opportunities to develop and for the benefit of our 17,000 current and past employee members.
We want our best people to stay with us and help We give free shares to all our people who stay with the company for grow the business, and we also want to recruit the best people.
at least three years so that they can share in our growth.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
