Strategic Report How we do business Supporting sustainable growth We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained success of our customers, people and communities.
Overview Customers Our largest global business Our purpose is to be where the We create value by providing the RBWM growth is, connecting customers products and services our customers Supports approximately 38 million to opportunities.
We help enable need, and aim to do so in a way that fits customers worldwide businesses to thrive and economies seamlessly into their lives.
This helps us to prosper, helping people to fulfil to build long-lasting relationships with Our largest markets their hopes and dreams and realise our customers.
We maintain trust by UK their ambitions.
striving to protect our customers data and information, and delivering fair $399bn in total customer accounts To achieve our purpose, we need outcomes for them and if things go Hong Kong to build strong relationships with wrong, we need to address complaints all of our stakeholders including $485bn in total customer accounts in a timely manner.
Operating with high customers, employees and the standards of conduct is central to our communities in which we operate.
long-term success and underpins our Customer recommendation index This will help enable us to deliver RBWM ability to serve our customers.
our strategy and operate our UK Hong Kong business in a way that is sustainable.
In this section, we focus on RBWM, our largest global business by number 2018 75% 2018 71% In this section, we provide information of customers, and on our two largest 2017 72% 2017 72% about our customers, employees and markets the UK and Hong Kong.
We our approach to creating a responsible The index uses the 0-10 rating scale for the customer measure and report on customer data business culture.
We also provide an recommendation question to create a 100 point index.
for all of our global businesses within Surveys are based on a relevant and representative update on our sustainability strategy, our ESG Update.
including progress towards our $100bn For footnotes, see page 67. sustainable finance commitment and 35 our second disclosure for the Task Complaint resolution Time taken to resolve complaints excluding Force on Climate-related Financial payment protection insurance complaints Disclosures TCFD.
Our Environmental, Social and RBWM Governance ESG Update will be 15% 14% published in April 2019 and will be 9% available on our website at www.
It will provide further detail 77% 75% on the topics covered in this section.
2018 2017 Key Same day or next working day Between 25 days Longer than 5 days 22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we do business Acting on feedback in RBWM We listen to our customers, and know that asking their Complaints are recorded and analysed so that we can learn opinion on our service is core to understanding their needs what went wrong and why.
Complaint resolution remains a and concerns.
Their feedback has helped us to become priority for us and in 2018 we saw a slight improvement in more accessible through improved digital experiences the percentage of complaints resolved within the same or and our overall customer service.
We continue to focus on next working day.
simplifying our processes and will launch our new mobile In the charts and tables on page 22, we outline our 2018 banking app into more markets.
We are working to make performance on customer recommendation for our UK things easy, personable and transparent.
and Hong Kong markets, and complaint resolution for our 10 largest markets.
Senior leaders have ultimate responsibility for customer service standards and monitor these through key metrics In the following table, we have highlighted some examples aligned to performance objectives.
These include: of how customer feedback has driven improvements for how customers feel about recommending us: and our RBWM customers.
the speed and quality of complaint resolution.
What our Digital customers As part of our strategy, we are committed to using are telling us Our response technology to enhance our customers' experience.
In 2018, Make We simplified our login process by rolling out we focused efforts on improving the online and mobile banking more biometrics Apples Touch ID and HSBC Voice banking experience for our customers and building upon accessible ID to 18 markets.
This will help enable us to analyse our In the UK, we trained our front-line employees to become Digital Experts.
In branch or on customers speech, language and tone to better understand the phone, they teach our customers how to their queries and respond with the right solution more quickly.
In 2018, 85% of new customers opened accounts through a supported digital experience.
Globally, Make it easy In Singapore, we simplified our mortgage to understand application forms and offer letters, so our fees and customers can be clear about their repayment 44% charges schedule, terms and conditions, and fees of RBWM customers are digitally active and charges.
Through digital messaging we are raising customer awareness around overdrafts.
In the UK, we expanded the volume of overdraft Taking responsibility for the service we deliver alerts, which we first introduced in 2017, We define conduct as delivering fair outcomes for customers sending more than 26 million alerts in 2018. and supporting the orderly and transparent operation of financial markets.
This is central to our long-term success Make our In the UK, we have continued to simplify and ability to serve customers.
We have clear policies, processes our mortgage process.
Through automatic easier valuations, improved credit policies and frameworks and governance in place to protect them.
These increased underwriter availability, applications cover the way we behave: design products and services: can be approved within 10 days.
train and incentivise employees: and interact with customers To make investing more accessible, we and each other.
Our conduct framework guides activities equipped our branch employees in Hong Kong, to strengthen our business and increases our understanding China and Singapore with tablets and launched of how the decisions we make affect customers and other an online financial health check.
Customers can now understand their investment options in their stakeholders.
Details on our conduct framework are available own time, without a specialist appointment.
For further information on conduct, see page 66.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Our employees Our people are critical to our success, and and Exchanges were held Group-wide Gender diversity statistics we have made a commitment to build the as part of the conversation around the 9 64% Holdings Board healthiest human system in our industry healthiest human system.
As we work Group Management 17 89% Snapshot and Exchange provide robust towards this, we are focused on fostering Board 2 11% feedback that we use to improve the a culture in which our employees feel Combined executive 148 74% employee experience.
For instance, our valued, empowered to share their views, committee and 51 26% people fed back that mental well-being is direct reports and able to fulfil their potential.
We already provide employee 6,887 72% Senior Listening to our people assistance lines in every country, and in 2,701 28% leadership 2019 we will provide additional mental Understanding how our people feel 752 69% Senior leadership health education and support to line about HSBC is vital.
It helps us ensure 331 31% RBWM managers.
Our focus will be on spotting that we are giving them the right support 652 74% Senior leadership the signs of mental ill-health, having to achieve their potential and to serve 226 26% CMB open conversations and signposting our customers well.
Senior leadership 608 20% GB&M We capture the views of our people on a range of topics, such as our strategy, 387 Senior leadership 69% Employee retention 174 culture and working environment, through GPB 31% our employee survey, Snapshot.
Results 645 72% Senior leadership are presented to the Group Management 85.5% 245 28% HOST Board and relevant executive 2017: 85.7% 115,391 48% All employees committees.
This means that we can 125,276 52% take action based on the feedback.
Key Enabling a diverse and inclusive Male We track employee advocacy by asking environment for all Female whether they would recommend HSBC Our commitment as a great place to work.
Currently, 66% We are committed to a thriving would recommend HSBC, an increase Combined executive committee and direct environment where people are valued, reports includes HSBC executive Directors, from 64% in 2017.
Analysis in 2018 respected and supported to fulfil Group Managing Directors, and their direct showed us that trust in leadership, reports excluding administrative staff plus their potential.
By building upon career development and recognising Company Secretary.
the extraordinary range of ideas, our people for their behaviour and backgrounds, styles and perspectives performance are what drives a of our employees, we can drive better positive response to this question.
outcomes for our stakeholders including HSBC Exchange provides a forum for customers, communities, suppliers and employees to share their open and shareholders.
Typically, these are Gender balance at senior levels meetings held without an agenda, Gender balance in leadership is an area meaning people can discuss what where we are making progress but matters most to them.
We know from we recognise the need to improve.
In Snapshot that when people participate 2018, we signed up to the 30% Club in Exchange meetings, they feel more campaign commitment to reach 30% able to speak up, have more trust in women in senior leadership roles leadership and report higher levels classified as 03 in our global career of well-being.
More than half of our band structure by 2020.
In order to employees took part in an Exchange achieve that aspirational target, we set meeting during 2018.
For example, our an objective that more than 27.6% of our Global Banking and Markets global senior leadership should be women by business hosted a series of Exchanges the end of 2018.
on the subject of culture and conduct, 24 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we do business Our employees continued Cases raised subject to investigation Employees FTEs by region Employee networks We have seven global employee 2018 2,068 9% networks as well as our HSBC 2017 1,585 Communities, which include common 7% Substantiated closed cases interest groups.
They provide spaces 4% for colleagues to speak up about 2018 34% internal and commercial issues and 2017 30% 55% opportunities, make connections, and learn from each other.
The networks focus on gender, age, ethnicity, LGBT, HSBC does not condone or tolerate any 25% faith, working parents, carers, and acts of retaliation against those who ability.
Our HSBC Communities focus raise concerns, and has a strict policy on a variety of topics, including flexible prohibiting any such acts.
The outcomes Key working, military and veterans, and of allegations of retaliation are reported Asia Chinese culture.
Making Europe Middle East and North Africa malicious or false claims is incompatible More information about our diversity North America with our values.
Latin America and inclusion activity and our UK Gender Pay Gap Report is available The Group Audit Committee has at www.
com our-approach responsibility for oversight of the Female share of HSBC senior leadership measuring-our-impact.
Groups whistleblowing arrangements headcount and receives regular updates on the % Whistleblowing status of whistleblowing arrangements 30 We think it is important to have a and outcomes.
culture where our people feel able to 25 We promoted the Groups whistleblowing speak up.
Individuals are encouraged arrangement through a training and to raise concerns about wrongdoing 20 awareness campaign in 2018 and this or unethical conduct through the usual is reflected in the increase in the number 15 reporting and escalation channels.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 However, we understand that there are circumstances where people need to raise concerns more discreetly.
HSBC Confidential is a global whistleblower platform that enables all of our people to raise issues in confidence and without fear of retaliation.
Whistleblowing concerns are investigated thoroughly and independently.
Some of the common themes that have been referred to HSBC Confidential include behaviour and conduct, allegations of fraud, and weaknesses with information security.
Remedial activity has been undertaken where appropriate, including disciplinary action, dismissal, as well as adjustments to variable pay, performance ratings and behaviour ratings.
Processes have also been enhanced where needed.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business A responsible business culture Taxes paid by region HSBCs purpose is to connect people Financial crime compliance $bn with opportunities.
With this purpose In order to help protect the integrity 0.3 0.4 comes the responsibility to protect our of the global financial system, we have 0.2 customers, our communities and the made, and continue to make, significant integrity of the financial system.
investments in our ability to detect, 2.7 Non-financial risks deter and prevent financial crime.
$7.0bn We have exited customers, products We use a range of tools to monitor and countries where we deemed the and manage our non-financial risks, financial crime risk too high to manage.
2.7 including our risk appetite, risk map, top We are also working with governments and emerging risks, and stress testing and other banks to advance our Key 0.7 processes.
During 2018, we continued UK collective interests in this area.
These to strengthen our approach to managing Rest of Europe steps are enabling us to reduce the risk Asia operational risk as set out in the of financial crime much more effectively.
Middle East and North Africa operational risk management North America framework ORMF.
The approach sets Our risk appetite has been set formally.
Latin America out governance, appetite and provides Further details may be found in the Risk a single view of non-financial risks section on page 30. that matter the most and associated Anti-bribery and corruption controls.
It incorporates a risk management system to enable active We are committed to high standards We apply a number of tax initiatives risk management.
The enhancement of ethical behaviour and operate a introduced after the global financial and embedding of the risk appetite zero-tolerance approach to bribery and crisis with the aim of increasing framework for non-financial risk and corruption, which we consider unethical transparency.
These initiatives address improving the consistency of the and contrary to good corporate both the tax positions of companies and adoption of the end-to-end risk and governance.
We require compliance of their customers.
These include: control assessment processes has with all anti-bribery and corruption laws the US Foreign Account Tax been a particular focus and while there in all markets and jurisdictions in which Compliance Act FATCA : remains more to do, progress has been we operate.
We have a global antithe OECD Standard for Automatic made in 2018 to strengthen the control bribery and corruption policy, which Exchange of Financial Account environment and the management of gives practical effect to global initiatives, Information the Common Reporting non-financial risk.
such as the Organisation of Economic Standard : Co-operation and Development For further details on our non-financial the Capital Requirements Country OECD Convention on Combating risks and the Top and emerging risks, by Country Reporting Regulations: Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in see pages 30 and 31. International Business Transactions and the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Cybersecurity Principle 10 of the United Nations Global Shifting BEPS initiative: and Compact.
We continue to invest in the UK legislation on the corporate Cybersecurity continues to be a focus technology and training.
In 2018, 98% criminal offence CCO of failing to area for HSBC and is routinely reported of our workforce were trained via a prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
at the Board level to ensure appropriate mandatory e-learning course and more visibility, governance and executive Human rights than 12,000 employees, who undertake support for our ongoing cybersecurity activities with a high risk of bribery, HSBCs commitment to respecting activities.
We continue to strengthen received targeted role-based training.
human rights, principally as they apply and invest significantly in both business to our employees, our suppliers and and technical controls in order to Tax through our lending, is set out in our prevent, detect and respond to an We are committed to applying both 2015 Statement on Human Rights.
This increasingly hostile cyber threat the letter and spirit of the law in all statement, along with our ESG Updates environment.
These include enhancing territories where we operate.
We aim to and our statements under the UKs controls to protect against advanced have open and transparent relationships Modern Slavery Act MSA, which malware, data leakage, infiltration with all tax authorities, ensuring that any include further information, is available of payments systems and denial of areas of uncertainty or dispute are on www.
agreed and resolved in a timely manner.
Our next MSA For additional information, please see As a consequence, we believe that we statement will be published in April 2019. the Top and emerging risks section on pay our fair share of tax in the Other matters page 30. jurisdictions in which we operate.
Information on our corporate We have adopted the UK Code of governance is on page 152, and Practice on Taxation for Banks, which information on legal proceedings was introduced in 2009, and manage and regulatory matters can be found tax risk in accordance with a formal on page 289. tax risk management framework.
26 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we do business Supporting sustainable growth We recognise our wider obligations to HSBCs sustainable finance commitments the communities where we operate, and In November 2017, we published five sustainable finance commitments.
In understand economic growth must also this section, we summarise the progress update against these commitments: be sustainable.
Our sustainable growth For our full commitments, see our ESG Supplement released in November 2017. initiatives are set out in an integrated strategy aligned to our Group strategy and our global business operations.
Provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable financing and investment by 2025 In 2018, we contributed $105m to charitable programmes and our We have provided $28.5bn of employees volunteered 264,000 hours financing, investing, and facilitation to community activities during the since 1 January 2017 see details working day.
We continued our on page 28. flagship environmental partnership, the HSBC Water Programme.
Source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources Sustainable finance by 2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025 We define sustainable finance as any We signed renewables power form of financial service that integrates purchase agreements that cover 29% ESG criteria into business or investment of our electricity consumption, which is decisions.
Sustainable finance covers up two percentage points from 2017, the financing and investment activities and decreased energy consumption needed to support the United Nations per FTE by 19% since 2011 details on Sustainable Development Goals our carbon dioxide emissions can be SDGs and the Paris Agreement.
Paris Agreement aims to limit the risk of an increase in temperatures to 2C Reduce our exposure to thermal coal and actively manage above pre-industrial levels.
the transition path for other high-carbon sectors To achieve the Paris Agreement and facilitate the transition to a low-carbon We rolled out a framework to measure We updated our energy policy to world, over $100tn of infrastructure transition risks across our six higheralign lending guidelines to scienceinvestment will be required in the next transition risk sectors in our loan based climate change-related targets 36 15 years.
We recognise the critical role portfolio.
Further information can see additional details on page 87. finance has to play in this transition.
be found in the Risk management section of our TCFD disclosure on Our sustainable finance commitments page 29. reflect our ambition to be a leading global partner to the public and private Adopt the recommendations of the TCFD sectors in helping with the transition to improve transparency to a low-carbon economy, achieving the SDGs, and supporting positive Further details of our second TCFD societal impacts.
Lead and shape the debate around sustainable finance and investment We published 25 articles on We intensified engagement with HSBCs Centre of Sustainable Finance leading regulatory and industry www.
bodies to promote sustainable This included Managing financial finance, for example by leading system stability and climate change a capital markets workstream of a preliminary guide, which was UK Green Finance Taskforce.
the product of collaboration and We provided forums for client engagement with individuals in engagement and dialogue through various businesses, functions and proprietary events, including a geographies across HSBC.
breakfast at the World Economic Forum in 2018 called Financing the sustainable silk road.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Progress towards $100bn sustainable finance commitment As part of our drive to deliver growth from areas of strength, we are committed to helping our clients transition to a low-carbon economy, supporting the achievement of the SDGs, and supporting positive societal impacts.
Cumulative progress through 2018 Since the start of 2017, we have achieved $28.5bn of our commitment to provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable financing and investment by 2025.
A data dictionary, including detailed definitions of contributing activities, may be found on our website www.
Facilitation Financing Investments We provide advisory services to We provide lending for specific finance We provide investments into defined facilitate the flow of capital and to activities.
Products include project socially responsible investment SRI provide access to capital markets.
finance e. g. financing of renewable and low-carbon funds.
Products include: green, social, infrastructure projects, and green loans and sustainable bonds: debt capital e. g. financing of eligible green products.
markets: and equity capital markets.
Cumulative progress Cumulative progress Cumulative progress $bn $bn $bn 21.4 5.8 1.3 2018 11.1 2018 5.3 2018 1.1 2017 10.3 2017 0.5 2017 0.2 2018 highlights 2018 highlights 2018 highlights HSBC ranked number two in Dealogics HSBC participated in the development HSBC created two Global Lower green, social and sustainability bonds of the green loan principles, published Carbon funds.
league table and number one in the by the Loan Markets Association LMA We achieved a rating of A A using sustainability bonds table.
United Nations Principles of Responsible HSBC Malaysia issued the worlds first HSBC provided the first ever green loan Investment UN PRI.
This covers all SDG sukuk bond, aligned to the United in Singapore aligned to the LMA green of our funds, of which SRI represents Nations SDG principles.
approximately 1% of our total assets Impact reporting for our green and under management.
SDG Bonds can be found on our website www.
Geographical breakdown of Awards Other transition activities our progress GlobalCapital Sustainable and Margin-linked loans: We have 3% Responsible Capital Markets provided $1.1bn of committed 13% Awards 2018: facilities where the loan margin is Most Impressive Financial Institution linked to sustainability indicators.
Green SRI Bank Issuer We are working with clients on a Most Impressive Investment Bank for sustainable supply chain finance Asia Pacific Green SRI Capital Markets solution.
28% Euromoney Awards 2018: 56% Since January 2017, we have advised Asias Best Bank for Sustainable Finance on more than $2bn of mergers and acquisitions transactions for renewable Extel Awards 2018: Key energy customers.
1 Provider of Integrated Climate Change Asia Americas Middle East, North Africa and Turkey PwC provided limited assurance over progress towards the $100bn sustainable finance commitment as at 31 December 2018 in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
This can be found on our website www.
Further information on the external assurance of our contribution to sustainable finance and our overall ESG assurance planningwill be included in our next ESG Update and on our website at www.
28 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we do business Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD We all have a role to play in limiting We report on the emissions of our own its day-to-day credit risk management.
climate change and supporting the operations via CDP formerly the Carbon The aim is that over time, each transition to a low-carbon economy, Disclosure Project.
This is available, as wholesale counterparty will receive a and we are a signatory to the disclosure well as other information related to the client transition risk rating based on recommendations by the Financial sustainability of our own operations, at: their susceptibility to, and ability to Stability Boards task force.
com our-approach manage transition risk.
represents our second disclosure measuring-our-impact.
We have identified six higher transition under the framework.
Risk management risk sectors based on their contribution Governance to global carbon dioxide emissions.
We are increasingly incorporating These sectors are: oil and gas: building Mitigating climate change is a key climate-related risk, both physical and and construction: chemicals: priority for our senior leadership, with transition, into how we manage and automotive: power and utilities: and sustainable finance metrics included oversee risks internally and with our metals and mining.
Over time we may in the Groups strategic priorities.
Climate risk is now included identify additional sectors as having 2018, there were two presentations as a theme in our Top and emerging higher transition risk depending on a on sustainability to the HSBC risks report to ensure that it receives variety of factors, including countryHoldings Board, two to the Group monthly management oversight via the level carbon dioxide reduction plans Audit Committee, four to the Group Risk Management Meeting of the Group per the Paris Agreement.
Risk Committee, and two to the Management Board RMM see page HSBC Group Management Board.
In addition, our Board-approved The table below presents our exposure Senior leadership have engaged with risk appetite statement contains a to the six higher transition risk sectors.
regulators, industry associations and qualitative statement on our approach These figures capture all lending non-governmental organisations on to sustainability, which will be further activity, including environmentally this topic, such as through the Bank of expanded in 2019 to include climate responsible customers and sustainable England consultation on climate change, risk explicitly.
Further details on our the Group Chairmans participation in approach to the quantification of We have a number of sustainability risk the One Planet Summit and the Group exposures can be found in footnote policies covering specific sectors.
In Chief Executives designation as a 37 on page 67.
This is expected to 2018, we updated our energy policy World Economic Forum climate evolve over time as we develop new to limit the financing of high-carbonleader.
A summarised list of HSBCs climate-related metrics.
intensity energy projects, while still  memberships is supporting energy customers on their Next steps available at: www.
com ourtransition to a low-carbon economy.
approach measuring-our-impact HSBCs TCFD disclosures will From the release of the new energy policy .
continue to evolve and expand in April 2018 until the end of 2018, HSBC over time.
In line with TCFD Strategy financed no new coal-fired power plants.
recommendations, our Annual Report Supporting the transition to a lowTransition risk, in the context of and Accounts will start to disclose carbon economy is a key part of HSBC's climate change, is the possibility that a the additional climate risk-related strategy, and new products have been customers ability to meet its financial metrics relating to our portfolio for offered to facilitate this, along with a obligations will deteriorate due to the specific sectors, as the availability pledge to provide $100bn of sustainable global movement from a high-carbon of sufficient, reliable and relevant finance by 2025.
To date, we have to a low-carbon economy.
HSBC is customer data permits.
For working to embed transition risk into further information, see page 28.
We recognise many clients across sectors % of total wholesale loans and advances are making significant shifts towards the 37 Sector to customers and banks in 2018 low-carbon economy.
During 2019, we Oil and gas 3.9% intend to develop new metrics to help measure these activities, with an aim Building and construction 3.8% to publish in next years disclosure.
Chemicals 3.9% Automotive 3.4% We believe education of our people is crucial on this topic.
We gave Power and utilities 3.0% sustainability training to more than Metals and mining 2.8% 2,300 employees during 2018 and Total 20.8% launched a sustainability online learning programme for all employees globally, Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $668bn.
with content developed in collaboration For footnotes, see page 67. with the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
