an evaluation of its effectiveness during 2018.
Instead, a review of was appointed Group Managing Director and Chief Executive of the Board's effectiveness, and that of its committees, will be Retail Banking and Wealth Management.
conducted in 2019 by an independent external service provider Current appointments include: Chairman of the Group and the results presented to the Board during this year.
Details of Management Board and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking the process followed and actions arising from that evaluation will Corporation Limited.
John is a member of the Monetary Authority be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2019. of Singapore International Advisory Panel and the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
He is also a Director performance evaluation member of the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative.
The Group Chairman has routinely met with each of the nonexecutive Directors during 2018 to discuss individual performance, Marc Moses, 61 Board and committee governance, time commitment and business Group Chief Risk Officer priorities.
Appointed to the Board: January 2014 Executive Directors individual performance evaluations are undertaken as part of the performance management process, which applies forall employees.
In respect of the Group Chief Executive, this review process was led by the Group Chairman and discussed with the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
The Group Remuneration Committee considers the result of the review by the Group Chairman of the Group Chief Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief Executive, as well as his assessments of the performance of the Financial and Risk Officer for Global Banking and Markets, and in Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk Officer, when December 2010 became Group Chief Risk Officer.
He has determining variable pay each year, as set out in the Directors extensive risk management and financial experience.
Marc is a remuneration report contained in this Annual Report and Accounts.
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He was European Chief Financial Officer at J. P. Morgan The Group Chairmans performance is evaluated by the nonChase & Co. and an audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
executive Directors, led by the SID.
Ewen Stevenson, 52 Non-executive Group Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2019 Mark E Tucker, 61 Non-executive Group Chairman Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Group Chairman since October 2017 Skills and experience: Ewen has over 25 years of experience in the banking industry, both as an adviser to major banks and as an executive.
Ewen was most recently executive Director and Chief Financial Officer at Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
Prior to this, he Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee was at Credit Suisse where his last role was co-Head of the EMEA Skills and experience: Mark has extensive experience in the Investment Banking Division and co-Head of the Global Financial financial services industry in Asia and the UK.
Most recently he Institutions Group.
was Group Chief Executive and President of AIA Group Limited AIA.
Before joining AIA, Mark was Group Chief Executive of Independent non-executive Directors Prudential plc and the founding Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia Limited.
Mark also previously served as a nonexecutive Director of the Court of The Bank of England, as an Kathleen Casey, 52 independent non-executive Director of the Goldman Sachs Group Independent non-executive Director and as Group Finance Director of HBOS plc.
Appointed to the Board: March 2014 Current appointments include: Serves on the Asia Business Council and the advisory board of the Asia Global Institute.
Mark is also a Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Executive Directors Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee John Flint, 50 Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial Group Chief Executive regulatory policy experience.
She is a former Commissioner of the Appointed to the Board: February 2018 US Securities and Exchange Commission, and acted as its principal representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory dialogues with the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
Other former appointments include Staff Director and Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Chair of the Alternative Investment Management Skills and experience: John joined HSBC in 1989 and helped to Association: and Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a establish and expand the HSBC Global Markets business in Asia.
He has held various roles across the Group, including Group Treasurer: Deputy Head of Global Markets and Head of Global Current appointments include: Senior adviser to Patomak Markets, Europe, Middle East and Africa: Chief Executive of HSBC Global Partners, member of the Board of Trustees of the Financial Accounting Foundation and a number of public and non-profit Global Asset Management: Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy and Planning.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report Laura Cha, GBM, 69 Irene Lee, 65 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2011 Appointed to the Board: July 2015 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and Skills and experience: Irene has more than 40 years finance policy-making experience in the finance and securities sector in industry experience, having held senior investment banking and Hong Kong and mainland China.
She is the former Vice Chairman fund management positions in the UK, the US and Australia, of the International Advisory Council of the China Securities including positions at Citibank and the Commonwealth Bank Regulatory Commission.
Other former appointments include nonofAustralia.
Other former appointments include serving as a executive Director of China Telecom Corporation Limited: Bank of member of the advisory council of J. P. Morgan Australia and the Communications Co. Ltd: and Tata Consultancy Services Limited.
She also served as Chair of Hong Kong Special Administrative Current appointments include: Executive Chair of Hysan Regions Financial Services Development Council and Deputy Development Company Limited and a non-executive Director of Chair of the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Hang Current appointments include: Chair of Hong Kong Exchanges Seng Bank Limited and Cathay Pacific Airways Limited.
She is also and Clearing Limited and non-executive Deputy Chair of The a member of the Exchange Fund Advisory Committee of the Hong Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
She is also Kong Monetary Authority.
a non-executive Director of The London Metal Exchange, Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. Heidi Miller, 65 Independent non-executive Director Henri fide Castries, 64 Appointed to the Board: September 2014 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2016 Member of the Group Risk Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Skills and experience: Heidi is a former President of Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee International at J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. and was responsible for Skills and experience: Henri has more than 25 years leading the global expansion and the international business international experience in the financial services industry.
He strategy across its investment bank, asset management, and joined AXA S. A. in 1989, and then held a number of senior roles, treasury and securities services divisions.
She was also a nonultimatelyas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AXA until executive Director of Merck & Co. Inc. and Progressive Corp. : 1September2016.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bank One Current appointments include: Special Adviser to General Corporation: and Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial Atlantic, Chairman of Institut Montaigne, lead independent Officer of Citigroup Inc. Director of Nestl S. A. and a non-executive Director of the French Current appointments include: Chair of HSBC North America National Foundation for Political Science.
Henri is also a member Holdings Inc. and a non-executive Director of First Data of the Global Advisory Council at LeapFrog Investments.
Corporation and General Mills Inc. Lord Evans of Weardale, 61 David Nish, 58 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: August 2013 Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Member of the Group Audit Committee, the Group Remuneration andmember of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Committee Skills and experience: Jonathan has 30 years of experience in Skills and experience: David served as Chief Executive Officer of national security policy and operations.
He was formerly Director Standard Life plc between 2010 and 2015, having joined as General of the UKs Security Service MI5, had oversight of the Finance Director in 2006.
Other former appointments include Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of Group Finance Director of Scottish Power plc: non-executive National Infrastructure, and attended the National Security Director of the UK Green Investment Bank plc, HDFC Life India, Council.
and London Stock Exchange Group plc: and partner of Price Waterhouse.
He is a qualified chartered accountant.
Current appointments include: Chairman of the UK Committee on Standards in Public Life and the Advisory Board of Blackdot Current appointments include: A non-executive Director of Solutions Ltd, non-executive Director of Ark Data Centres, and an Vodafone Group plc and Zurich Insurance Group.
adviser to various cybersecurity and technology companies.
154 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 International: and member of the supervisory board of ASML Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 59 Holding N. V. Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: April 2014 Current appointments include: Chair of the Dutch Corporate Senior Independent Director since April 2017 Governance Code Monitoring Committee, Chair of the supervisory Deputy Group Chairman since August 2018 board of EY Netherlands, Deputy Chair of the supervisory board of Royal DSM N. V. non-executive Director of Mylan N. V. member of the Selection and Nomination Committee of the Supreme Court of the Netherlands and member of the Capital Markets Committee of the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets.
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Group Risk Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Group Company Secretary Committee Skills and experience: Jonathan is a former Chief Financial Ben Mathews, 51 Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc.
He was also a partner Group Company Secretary and managing director of Goldman Sachs, a partner ofKPMG, and a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee ofDiageo plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Current appointments include: Chairman of Proteus Digital Health Inc. and Genomics England Limited and a non-executive Director of Rubius Therapeutics, Inc. Ben joined HSBC in June 2013 and became Group Company Jackson Tai, 68 Secretary in July 2013.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Independent non-executive Director Secretaries and Administrators.
Former appointments include Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Group Company Secretary of Rio Tinto plc and of BGGroup plc.
Group Managing Directors Elaine Arden, 50 Group Chief Human Resources Officer Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Group Audit Committee, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Elaine joined HSBC in June 2017 as Group Chief Human Resources Officer.
She has previously held senior human Skills and experience: Jackson Tai is a skilled international nonresources and employee relations roles in a number of other executive Director with experience in senior operating and financial institutions.
Elaine is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of governance roles across Asia and China, as well as North America Banking in Scotland and a member of the Chartered Institute of and Europe.
Jackson was formerly Vice Chairman and Chief Personnel & Development.
Executive Officer of DBS Group and DBS Bank Ltd, having served the group as Chief Financial Officer and then as President and Samir Assaf, 58 Chief Operating Officer.
He previously worked at J. P. Morgan & Chief Executive Officer, Global Banking and Markets Co.
Incorporated as an investment banker in New York, Tokyo and San Francisco.
Other former appointments include non-executive Samir joined HSBC in 1994 and became a Group Managing Director of Bank of China Limited, Singapore Airlines, NYSE Director in 2011.
He is Chairman and a non-executive Director of Euronext, ING Groep N. V. CapitaLand Ltd, SingTel Ltd. and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Jackson also served as Vice Chairman of Islamic HSBC France: a Director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and The Saudi British Bank.
Former appointments include: a Director Bank of Asia.
of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Global Asset Management Limited and Current appointments include: Non-executive Director of HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. : and Head of Global Markets for Europe, EliLilly and Company, Koninklijke Philips N. V. Mastercard Middle East and Africa.
Incorporated and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.
Colin Bell, 51 Pauline van der Meer Mohr, 58 Group Chief Compliance Officer Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: September 2015 Colin Bell joined HSBC in July 2016 and was appointed a Group Managing Director in March 2017.
Colin previously worked at UBS, where he was Head of Compliance and Operational Risk Control.
He has 10 years of experience in managing risk and financial crime, following 16 years in the British Army.
Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee and a member of Patrick Burke, 57 President and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC USA the Group Risk Committee and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Patrick joined HSBC in 1989 and became a Group Managing Skills and experience: Pauline has extensive legal and human Director in 2015.
He is also an executive Director, President and resources experience across a number of different sectors, and CEO of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and Chairman of HSBC contributed to the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring Commission.
Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and Former appointments include President of Erasmus University HSBC Global Asset Management USA Inc. Rotterdam: senior executive Vice President and Head of Group Human Resources at ABN AMRO Bank N. V. : Group Human Resources Director at TNT N. V. : HR Director, Information Technology, Royal Dutch Shell Group: Senior Legal Counsel, Shell HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report Pierre Goad, 57 Charlie Nunn, 47 Chief Communications Officer Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Pierre first joined HSBC in 2001.
In 2010, he left to join Zurich Charlie joined HSBC in 2011 and became a Group Managing Insurance Group as Head of Communications.
He rejoined HSBC Director and CEO, Retail Banking and Wealth Management in in 2011 and became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
Charlie was previously Head of Group Retail appointments include: Director of HSBC Bank Canada: Global CoBanking and Wealth Management, leading the teams supporting Head of Communications: and Head of Corporate Development, HSBCs Retail and Wealth businesses globally.
Prior to this, he Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses.
was Group Head of Wealth Management and before that Global Chief Operating Officer for Retail Banking and Wealth Management.
Charlie has extensive financial services experience Pam Kaur, 55 and was formerly a partner at Accenture and a Senior Partner at Group Head of Internal Audit McKinsey & Co. Pam joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in 2013.
She is a non-executive Director of Centrica plc, a co-opted Noel Quinn, 57 Council member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Chief Executive Officer, Global Commercial Banking England and Wales, and Chair of the Financial Services Faculty Board.
Former appointments include: Global Head of Group Audit Noel joined HSBC in 1992 when the Group acquired Midland Bank for Deutsche Bank AG: Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating and became a Group Managing Director on 1 September 2016.
Officer of the Restructuring and Risk Division, Royal Bank of Former appointments include: Head of Specialised and Equity Scotland Group plc: Group Head of Compliance and AML, Lloyds Finance, Director of Strategy and Development for Commercial TSB: and Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, Banking, Head of Commercial Finance Europe, Head of Citigroup.
Commercial Banking UK, and Head of Commercial Banking Asia.
Stuart Levey, 55 Antnio Simes, 43 Chief Legal Officer Chief Executive Officer, Global Private Banking Stuart joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in Antnio joined HSBC in 2007 and became a Group Managing 2012.
Former appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism Director on 1 February 2016.
On 1 January 2019, he was and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of the Treasury: appointed Chief Executive Officer of Global Private Banking.
senior fellow for National Security and Financial Integrity at the Antnio was previously Chief Executive Officer of UK and Europe Council on Foreign Relations: Principal Associate Deputy Attorney HSBC Bank plc, and served as Chief of Staff to the Group Chief General at the US Department of Justice: and a partner at Miller, Executive Officer and Group Head of Strategy and Planning.
Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and at Baker Botts LLP.
Antnio was also formerly the Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FCA, a partner of McKinsey & Company, and an associate at Andy Maguire, 52 Goldman Sachs.
Group Chief Operating Officer Ian Stuart, 55 Andy joined HSBC in 2014 as Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC UK Bank plc became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
He is Chairman of HSBC Global Services Limited, HSBC Global Services UK Limited Ian joined HSBC in 2014 and became a Group Managing Director and HSBC Group Management Services Limited.
He is formerly a of HSBC Holdings plc on 1 July 2018.
In April 2017 he was Managing Partner UK and Ireland of the Boston Consulting appointed Chief Executive Officer of HSBC UK Bank plc.
Board member of the financial services industry association UK Finance.
He has more than 38 years experience in the banking Paulo Maia, 60 industry.
Before joining HSBC, Ian led the corporate banking Chief Executive Officer, Latin America business at Barclays for six years and held a variety of roles in business banking during his 22 years at NatWest.
Paulo joined HSBC in 1993 and became a Group Managing Director on 1 February 2016.
He is Chairman of Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Chairman of HSBC Argentina Holdings Peter Wong, 67 S. A. and a Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Former Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The Hongkong andShanghai Banking Corporation Limited appointments include: Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Australia Limited.
Peter joined HSBC in 2005 and became a Group Managing Director in 2010.
He is Chairman and non-executive Director of Stephen Moss, 52 HSBC Bank China Company Limited and a non-executive Director Group Chief of Staff of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
He is also non-executive Vice Chairman of Bank of Communications Co. Limited.
Other Stephen, who has been with HSBC for 27 years, became a Group appointments include Deputy Chairman of the Hong Kong General Managing Director in 2018.
As Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Chamber of Commerce: Council Member of Hong Kong Trade Executive, Stephen leads Group Strategy and Planning, Group Development Council and a member of its Belt and Road Mergers and Acquisitions, Global Communications, Global Events, Committee: and a Member of the Chongqing Mayors International Group Public Affairs and Group Corporate Sustainability.
is a Director of the Saudi British Bank, HSBC Middle East Holdings B. V. and HSBC Global Asset Management Limited.
He is a qualified chartered accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
156 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
