Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings As explained in more detail in the reports of the GAC and the GRC that carries the right of voting at its general meetings excluding on pages 159 and 161, this interaction is reinforced through the any paid-up capital held as treasury shares.
A request must state Audit and Risk Committee Chairs forums.
The Chairs of the the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting subsidiary audit and risk committees within the respective regions and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be attend a regional forum to exchange subject matter expertise and moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting.
A request may to review and discuss forward-looking risk and audit issues.
be in hard copy form or inelectronic form, and must be Board members are encouraged to, and do, make visits to the authenticated by the person or persons making it.
A request regions and attend principal subsidiary board and board maybe made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, committee meetings as guests.
Similarly, regional Directors are referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email to invited regularly to attend committee meetings at a Group level.
At any general meeting The GAC and GRC make a number of recommendations to the convened on such request, no business may be transacted except Board in relation to the preparation of the financial statements, that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
which are supported by certificates from the principal subsidiaries.
Whistleblowing Board committees The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing During 2018, the Board reduced the number of Board committees procedures.
It receives regular updates on relevant concerns from seven to five.
Responsibilities previously delegated to its raised under these procedures, together with management actions Conduct & Values Committee and Philanthropic & Community taken in response.
Investment Oversight Committee were reassigned to other, more appropriate governance forums within the Group.
Specific Committee effectiveness responsibility for cyber-crime and information security risk was The effectiveness of the committees is evaluated as part of the transferred from the FSVC to the GRC.
Responsibility for the overall performance evaluation of the Board and through annual development of the firms culture was assumed by the Group effectiveness reviews at a committee level.
In 2018, the Nomination Committee was also renamed committees review the papers and the effectiveness of each the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, reflecting its meeting as a standing agenda item to ensure that they continue to broader corporate governance remit.
be effective, challenging and well-managed.
They also review a The Chairs of each committee report matters of significance to the rolling planner of proposed committee business.
In 2019, the Board after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings are feedback from this review process will be taken into account in made available to all Board members.
informing the results of the Board's effectiveness review being undertaken by an independent external provider.
The detailed roles and responsibilities of each committee are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found on the website at www.
Interaction with principal subsidiaries The Board manages relationships with the regions through principal subsidiaries.
There are close interactions between the Group Board and the principal subsidiaries and their respective committees.
Minutes are shared and certain appointments to principal subsidiary boards, as well as other senior roles, are required to be approved by the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee of the Group Board.
In addition to the Board meetings listed, Chairmans Committee meetings were also held in 2018.
1 The Conduct & Values Committee was demised in 2018.
2 The Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee was demised in 2018.
3 Appointed to the Board 21 February 2018.
4 Retired from the Board 20 February 2018.
5 Retired from the Board 31 December 2018.
6 Retired from the Board 20 April 2018.
7 Appointed to the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee 20 April 2018.
8 Appointed to the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 20 April 2018.
9 Unable to attend an ad-hoc meeting of the Board called at short notice.
10 Appointed to the Group Remuneration Committee 20 April 2018.
11 Appointed to the Group Risk Committee 20 April 2018 and as Deputy Group Chairman 6 August 2018.
12 Appointed to the Group Audit Committee 1 December 2018. members of senior management routinely attend meetings of the GAC.
The external auditor also attended all meetings.
The Chair Group Audit Committee and other members of the GAC had regular meetings with Members management to discuss agenda planning and specific issues as they arose during the year.
Each meeting includes in camera Jonathan Symonds Chair sessions with the internal and external auditors.
The Chair of the Phillip Ameen resigned 20 April 2018 GAC, who is also the Deputy Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director, oversaw the Group Chief Financial Officer Kathleen Casey succession process and selection.
David Nish Compliance with regulatory requirements Jackson Tai appointed 1 December 2018 The Board has confirmed that each member of the GAC is Role and responsibilities independent according to SEC criteria, may be regarded as audit committee financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the The GAC has responsibility, delegated to it from the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial reporting.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong Kong Corporate This responsibility encompasses the Annual Report and Accounts, quarterly reporting, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 disclosures.
In discharging their responsibility the GAC oversees: The GAC assesses the adequacy of resources of the accounting and financial reporting function.
It also monitors the legal and preparation of financial statements, compliance with accounting standards and accounting judgements: regulatory environment relevant to its responsibilities.
the effectiveness of internal financial control functions: How the Committee discharges its responsibilities the independence and performance of Internal Audit: Financial reporting the relationships with external auditors, including their The GAC reviews HSBCs financial and reporting judgements and independence, performance and approval of proposed services their application to the Groups financial reporting, including Pillar outside of the scope of the Group audit: and 3 disclosures.
It also reviews presentations to external analysts, including the key financial metrics relating toHSBCs strategic whistleblowing with effect from the conclusion of the 2018 actions.
Linkages with principal subsidiary audit committees Governance During the year the GAC maintained links with the audit The Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, committees of The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and other HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report Limited, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank Canada, reappointment of PwC and their audit fee for 2019 will be HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Latin America Holdings proposed to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
UK Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and HSBC Private Internal Audit Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
The GAC approves Internal Audits annual plan, resource and In 2018, the GAC and GRC hosted three joint regional forums with budget, and reviews the performance and effectiveness of the the Chairs of subsidiaries' audit and risk committees, together Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Group Head of Internal Audit with senior management from the relevant subsidiaries.
The reports to the Chair of the GAC and administratively to the Group purpose of these forums was to discuss mutual priorities: Chief Executive.
The Committee meets regularly with the Group improvement and remediation programmes: risk profiles and Head of Internal Audit without other management present.
They also provided an opportunity to Committee members also meet with critical audit teams around deliver targeted training and conduct a review of committee the world.
In 2018, the GAC additionally considered audit quality effectiveness.
These meetings are supplemented throughout the and the use of technology and analytics.
The GAC concluded that year by formal and informal communication between the the Internal Audit function remained effective.
The GAC also committee chairs and GAC members.
reviewed succession planning in the Internal Audit function.
Appointments to the audit committees of the principal subsidiaries Principal activities and significant issues considered are reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC Chair meets with proposed during 2018 new Chairs of the principal subsidiary audit committees.
Internal control framework Internal controls The GAC continued to monitor the progress being made to The GAC assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system upgrade entity level controls.
During 2018, the GAC undertook a for financial reporting and any developments affecting itin support series of deep dives to monitor the remediation of identified of the Boards assessment of internal control over financial control deficiencies, noting that good progress was made during reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley the year.
The GAC continued to monitor the remediation of Act.
The GAC has received confirmation that executive controls over access management in IT.
Where critical entity level management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to controls overlapped with the activities of the GRC, joint sessions remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the were held.
operation of the Group's framework of controls.
Further detail of how the Board reviews the effectiveness of keyaspects of internal IFRS 9 implementation control can be found on page 164.
Throughout 2018, the GAC received detailed presentations and External audit updates from management on the Groups readiness for the implementation of IFRS 9.
Particular emphasis was given in 2018 The GAC reviews the external auditors approach, strategy for the to the forward-looking projections, required for IFRS 9 and its annual audit and its findings.
In 2018, the Committee reviewed relationship to regulatory stress testing.
Detailed discussions were auditor independence, audit quality and the use of technology and held in situations where impairment risk could not be easily analytics.
GAC members routinely met audit partners in key parts modelled, for example, the significant uncertainty regarding the of the world and were involved in auditor conferences.
Principal economic outlook for the UK, and US-China trade in conjunction matters discussed with PwC are set out in their report on page with the relevant subsidiary audit committee.
Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom The GAC is also involved in audit partner rotation and succession for the Group and its principal subsidiaries.
The GAC received regular updates on the assumptions underpinning the valuation of BoCom.
It monitored indicators A policy is in place and monitored by the GAC on hiring employees of impairment, both macro-economic and BoCom specific, and or former employees of the external auditor, including in relation to reviewed the results of the impairment assessments carried out by any breaches of the policy.
Much of this work was carried out in conjunction The GAC regularly meets privately with the external auditor.
The with The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation audit GAC Chair maintains regular contact with the audit partner committee.
Resolution planning All non-audit services provided by the external auditor are preThe Group is required to have in place a recovery plan that sets out approved by theGAC in accordance with the auditor recovery options to be initiated in the event of the Group coming independence policy toensure that services do not create a under severe financial stress.
During 2018, the GAC received conflict.
Details of the significant engagements for non-audit updates on the structure of the Group recovery plan.
The GAC services are contained in Note 7. considered the Group recovery plan and its integration with the Groups risk management framework.
2018 2017 Auditors remuneration $m $m Establishment of the ring-fenced bank Total fees payable 119.50 129.70 During 2018, the GAC considered the accounting judgements in Fees for non-audit services 32.90 44.90 relation to the creation of HSBC UK, the ring-fenced bank, and the A further breakdown of the fees paid to the auditors for each of creation of the internal service companies that supplies services to the last three financial years can be found inNote 7 on the banks.
Ibor During the year, the GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the The GAC received presentations on the risks relating to Ibors Groups external auditor, using a questionnaire that focuses on the discontinuation.
overall audit process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
The GAC also assessed any potential threats to independence that Whistleblowing were self-identified or reported by PwC.
The GAC considered PwC The GAC reviewed the independence, autonomy and effectiveness to be independent and PwC, in accordance with professional of the firms policies and procedures on whistleblowing, including ethical standards, provided the GAC with written confirmation of the procedures for the protection of staff who raise concerns of its independence for the duration of 2018. detrimental treatment.
The GAC has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC bereappointed as auditor.
Resolutions concerning the 160 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Significant accounting judgements considered during 2018 included: Key area Action taken Expected credit loss The GAC considered loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending.
Particular judgements included the effect 'ECL' impairment of UK economic uncertainty and the risk of escalation of trade wars between the US and China on the measurement of ECL impairment.
The GAC also considered disclosures relating to ECL in the year-end accounts.
Bank of During the year, the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBCs investment in BoCom.
The GAC review included Communications Co. the sensitivity of the result of the impairment review to estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows, regulatory Limited BoCom capital assumptions and the models sensitivity to long-term assumptions including the continued appropriateness of the impairment testing discount rate.
Appropriateness of The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, as well as the existence of provisioning for legal contingent liabilities for legal proceedings and regulatory matters.
Specific matters addressed included accounting judgements in proceedings and relation to provisions and contingent liabilities arising out of: a investigations by regulators and competition and law regulatorymatters enforcement authorities around the world into trading on the foreign exchange markets: b investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities: and c investigations into historical sales of US mortgage securitisations by The United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for potential violations of The Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, 12 U. S. C. 1833a, which was settled during the year.
Interest rate benchmark The GAC considered the accounting implications of benchmark interest rate replacement for hedge accounting relationships as replacement at 31 December 2018, and longer-term broader accounting implications for financial instruments.
The GAC considered management's judgement that no change to hedge accounting is appropriate as at 31 December 2018, and that this position will be kept under review in the context of future market developments in the transition of interest rate benchmarks to new risk-free rates.
Quarterly and annual The GAC considered key judgements in relation to quarterly and annual reporting.
It reviewed draft presentations to external reporting analysts and key financial metrics included in HSBCs strategic actions.
Valuation of financial The GAC considered the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the determination of the fair value of financial instruments instruments.
The GAC considered the valuation control framework, valuation metrics, significant year-end judgements and emerging valuation topics.
Viability statement In accordance with the provisions contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks for the Group and parent company.
The GAC considered the Directors judgement in concluding that theGroup and parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the viability statement covers a period of three years.
Tax-related judgements The GAC considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in particular in the US.
The GAC also considered managements judgements relating to the tax indemnity agreed to by HSBC as part of the sale of operations in Brazil in 2016.
This includes consideration of the key inputs and assumptions used to estimate any obligation under the indemnity.
UK customer The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in the UK and the remediation associated redress on PPI commissions earned under certain criteria, including managements judgements regarding the effect of the time-bar for claims ending August 2019.
In addition, the GAC monitored progress on the remediation of operational processes and associated customer redress.
Defined benefit pension The GAC considered the UK defined benefit pension scheme accounting where, after the Court of Appeal ruling on 26 October accounting 2018 against Lloyds Banking Group in respect of guaranteed minimum pension equalisation, HSBC has recognised past service costs through the income statement.
IFRS 16 'Leases' The GAC considered the estimated impact of adoption of IFRS 16 'Leases', which applies from 1 January 2019, and the related disclosures.
Adjusted profit Throughout the year, the GAC considered managements non-GAAP measures for adjusted profits.
They have also reviewed a measures revised policy for such measures as it was aligned to the Groups strategy.
members and the committee attendees.
In April 2018, the GRC assumed responsibility for the oversight of cyber-crime risk and Group Risk Committee information security risk from the FSVC and people risk and Members employee conduct from the Conduct & Values Committee.
Jackson Tai Chair Governance John Lipsky resigned 20 April 2018 In carrying out its responsibilities, the GRC is closely supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Heidi Miller Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Global Head of Pauline van der Meer Mohr appointed 20 April 2018 Compliance and Global Head of Risk Strategy, all of whom regularly attend GRC meetings to contribute their subject matter Jonathan Symonds appointed 20 April 2018 expertise and insight.
They together with the first line business, Independent Adviser functional and regional leaders, second line risk stewards and third Andrew France appointed 1 July 2018 line internal auditors, facilitate Committee members' review and challenge of current and forward-looking risk issues.
The Independent Adviser supports the Committees work and hasdeep experience working with governments and private The GRC works closely with the GAC to ensure there are no gaps, that any areas of significant overlap are appropriately addressed companies across the world to keep information, technology and and to improve inter-committee communication.
The Chairs of critical national infrastructures safe.
both these committees engage on the agendas of each others Role and responsibilities committee meetings.
Furthermore, the Chair of the GAC is a The GRC has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of member of the GRC and the Chair of the GRC is a member of the enterprise risk management, risk governance and internal control GAC.
This further enhances the linkages, coordination and the systems other than internal financial controls overseen by the flows of information between the GRC and GAC.
In its holistic view of risk, the GRC is supported by the The GRC programmes its meeting agenda and capitalises on the FSVC, which is the Board committee responsible for overseeing overseas location of the Holdings Board and GRC meetings, as risks relating to financial crime, anti-bribery and corruption.
The well as the GRC Chairs annual visits to principal subsidiary risk FSVC reports second order risks to the GRC.
Appropriate linkages committees to proactively encourage in person participation of and information flows between these committees are further principal subsidiary risk committee Chairs in GRC meetings, enhanced by cross-membership and close engagement of the reviews, stress testing and capital and liquidity management sessions throughout the year.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report The GRC Chair and the GRC members regularly meet with the Any new appointments to the risk committees of the principal Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit and subsidiaries are also reviewed by the GRC.
The GRC Chair also external auditors without management present.
meets with any proposed new Chair of the principal subsidiary risk committees.
How the Committee discharges its responsibilities During 2018, the GRC provided informed review and challenge to At each meeting, the GRC reviews the Group risk profile report, the Groups regulatory submissions relating to capital which identifies the key issues and common themes arising from management and liquidity adequacy assessments.
It proactively the Groups enterprise risk reports.
This report includes a reviewed progress of the Group's liquidity risk management synthesised view of the Groups risk appetite statement 'RAS', improvement plan.
It continued to maintain oversight of the top and emerging risks, and the Group risk map.
It clearly sets out Groups regulatory and internal stress testing programmes with which Board committee has accountability for the monitoring and specific review and challenge of the design, key assumptions and oversight of each risk, and identifies any areas where outcomes of the principal tests conducted.
management is required to assess vulnerabilities via stress testing.
The GRC exercised its governance oversight for people risk and Page 69 provides further information on the top and emerging employee conduct through reviews, including with the Group risks, the risk map and the risk appetite for the Group.
The GRC Chief Human Resources Officer and Group business heads and at receives presentations on a range of topics, including stress the audit and risk committee chairs forums, that the right testing and briefings on developments in its principal markets.
In behaviours are being promoted to support fair customer outcomes addition, the GRC requests reports and updates from management and to protect the integrity of markets.
The GRC continued to on risk-related issues for in-depth consideration and receives oversee and challenge the effective delivery of the Global Markets regular reports on matters discussed at the Risk Management conduct enhancement programme, and considered the emerging Meeting of the Group Management Board.
opportunities, ethical issues and risks as digital capabilities evolve.
The GRC reviews any revisions to the Group RAS biannually and Internal Audits independent assessments on conduct were any proposed changes are recommended to the Board.
It reviews reported regularly with specific themes highlighted from audit managements assessment of risk and provides scrutiny of activity.
The GRC has overseen progress with delivering against the The GRC programmes forward-looking and thematic agendas, remediation plan addressing the allegations set out in the 2018 FX which are supported by input from all three lines of defence within DPA with the US Department of Justice and the 2017 Consent the global businesses and regions.
The Committee also conducts Order with the Federal Reserve Board.
deep dives on the risk implications of strategic matters, risks The GRC reviewed HSBCs progress towards improving the specific to regions, significant projects and key topical risks that Groups cybersecurity and the actions being taken to mitigate are identified during the GRCs deliberations and discussion.
It also conducted a review and challenge to proactively including Chairs of principal subsidiary risk committees the Group's continued progress in improving its operational to participate in GRC meetings and thematic reviews, scheduling resilience to presumed disruptions, especially in its key regional updates in the GRC agenda, conducting holistic deep infrastructure functions and prioritised business services.
dives and sharing GRC learnings and insight with subsidiaries, the GRC has further enhanced its connectivity, linkages and two-way flow of information with the principal subsidiary risk committees, and among the risk committees themselves.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2018 Key area Action taken The Group RAS and Following its biannual reviews, the GRC did not recommend any material changes to the overall level of risk appetite in 2018. monitoring of the Group The GRC expanded its focus through the introduction of new risk appetite metrics for model risk and systems and data risk profile against the integrity risk, related to the Group's most critical models and IT services.
RAS Capital and liquidity The GRC has fully engaged with management in evaluating and challenging the Groups liquidity and funding risk appetite and the effectiveness of the liquidity and funding risk framework.
The GRC continued to review the Groups approach to capital planning to ensure it is comprehensive, rigorous and forward looking.
The GRC reviewed and challenged both the Group individual liquidity adequacy assessment process and internal capital adequacy assessment process.
The GRC also encouraged a strengthening of the principal subsidiary risk committee's review and challenge of their respective capital and liquidity programmes.
Stress testing The GRC conducted a comprehensive review and challenge of the scenarios and approach to the PRA stress test and reviewed the results of the annual cyclical scenario.
The GRC continued to review and oversee the regulatory and internal global stress testing programmes throughout the year.
Execution risk Regular reports were received from the Group Chief Operating Officer, who updated the GRC on the progress and status of the Groups highest-priority change and transformation programmes and mitigating measures being introduced to manage the identified risks appropriately.
Internal control and risk The GRC reviewed the Groups risk management framework and system of internal control other than internal financial management controls covered by the GAC and the developments affecting them over the course of 2018, as part of the Boards assessment of internal control.
The GRC has reviewed and challenged the effectiveness of non-financial risk management with particular focus on data management, information and cyber risk, people risk and conduct, model risk management, IT and operational resilience and third-party risk management.
Deep dive reviews The GRC conducted in-depth reviews of risk governance and implications relating to the Groups approach to credit risk appetite, data management and strategy, model risk management, information and cybersecurity, non-financial risk management, liquidity and capital management, people risk and employee conduct, and IT and operational resilience.
Connectivity between the The GRC continued to enhance the connectivity and flow of information both to and from the subsidiary risk committees GRC and subsidiary risk during 2018.
There has been ongoing active participation by the principal subsidiary risk committee Chairs at GRC meetings.
committees In addition, the GRC Chair attended principal subsidiary risk committee meetings in Asia, UK, Europe, US, Latin America, Canada and the Middle East.
In 2018, the GRC and GAC jointly strengthened its previously annual audit and risk committee chairs' conference into three intensive regional audit and risk workshops and meetings for subsidiary committee leadership in Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East and the Americas.
162 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 requirements of multiple jurisdictions.
No Directors are involved in Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee deciding their own remuneration.
Members A full report on the role and activities of the Committee is set out on pages 172 to 202.
Lord Evans of Weardale Chair Kathleen Casey resigned 20 April 2018 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Jackson Tai Members Laura Cha appointed 20 April 2018 Mark Tucker Chairman Nick Fishwick, CMG non-Director member Laura Cha Dave Hartnett, CB non-Director member John Lipsky resigned 20 April 2018 Lord Hogan-Howe non-Director member Pauline van der Meer Mohr David Irvine, AO non-Director member Jonathan Symonds Clovis Meath Baker, GMG non-Director member resigned 16 April 2018 Kathleen Casey appointed 20 April 2018 Nehchal Sandhu non-Director member resigned 16 April 2018 Henri fide Castries appointed 20 April 2018 John Raine, CMG non-Director member Lord Evans of Weardale appointed 20 April 2018 The Honourable Juan Zarate non-Director member Irene Lee appointed 20 April 2018 The six non-Director members support the Committees work and Heidi Miller appointed 20 April 2018 among them have extensive experience in geopolitical risk, David Nish appointed 20 April 2018 financial crime risk, international security and law enforcement matters.
Jackson Tai appointed 20 April 2018 Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities The Committee has non-executive responsibility for the oversight The Committee leads the Board appointment process, agrees the of matters related to financial crime and system abuse, in criteria for any appointments and engages independent external particular anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing, search consultants, as required.
At the conclusion of this process, proliferation financing, anti-bribery and corruption.
It is also the Committee will nominate potential candidates for appointment responsible for monitoring, reviewing and advising the Board on to the Board.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee the effectiveness of the policies and procedures established by regularly reviews the Boards structure, size and composition, management to ensure that HSBC meets its obligations to including skills, knowledge, independence and diversity regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
represented on the Board so as to ensure it is aligned with the Groups strategic priorities.
The Committee determines the Principal activities and significant issues considered membership of Board committees and reviews appointments to during 2018 the boards of a number of the Groups most significant operating Financial crime subsidiaries.
The Committee monitored the Groups progress on the The Committee is also responsible for overseeing succession implementation of its Global Standards programme and planning for the top 20 roles across the Group and the succession considered the effectiveness of the Groups financial crime risk pool for those roles, including progress against the development controls.
plans for individuals identified within that pool.
Anti-bribery and corruption As a result of an expansion of its scope of activities during 2018, the Committee now oversees the Group's corporate governance The Committee reviewed the activities underway to address key framework, providing recommendations to the Board to ensure bribery and corruption risks and managements progress with the the framework remains robust and reflects best practice.
implementation of a more robust anti-bribery and corruption compliance framework.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2018 Engaging with the Skilled Person Succession planning The Committee was responsible for liaising with the Skilled Person to ensure his recommendations were acted on.
In 2018, the Committee led the process for the succession of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
This involved consideration of both internal and external candidates, based on objective criteria and Group Remuneration Committee taking into account the benefits of diversity, including gender.
An independent external consultant was engaged to advise and Members support the Committee in its search.
Following an initial interview Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chair process, a sub-committee was appointed, comprising the Group Chairman, the Deputy Group Chairman and Senior Independent Henri fide Castries Director, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Human John Lipsky resigned 20 April 2018 Resources Officer, with responsibility for determining a shortlist of David Nish preferred candidates.
The Committee discussed the shortlist and made its recommendation to the Board.
On 25 June 2018, the Irene Lee appointed 20 April 2018 Board announced that Ewen Stevenson was to succeed Iain Role and responsibilities Mackay as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 January 2019.
The Committee is responsible for setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance framework of the Groups Corporate governance remuneration policy, and the remuneration of executive Directors During the year, the remit of the Committee was expanded to and other senior Group employees.
The Committee regularly include a responsibility to oversee and monitor the Groups reviews the Groups remuneration policy in the context of corporate governance framework.
The Committees consistent and effective risk management, and the regulatory recommendations are made to the Board, where required, to ensure the framework is consistent with best corporate HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
