Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBCHoldings plc Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Opinion 1 In our opinion HSBC Holdings plcs HSBC Group financial statements and parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and parent company's affairs at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups and parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis of these opinions In expressing this opinion, I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate.
My work has been undertaken, and my opinion expressed, in accordance with applicable law and the International Standards on Auditing UK as issued by the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC' of the United Kingdom.
My responsibilities and those of the directors are explained later in this report.
How the audit approach was structured This was the fourth year that it has been my responsibility to form this opinion on behalf of  LLP 'PwC', who you first appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that years audit.
Over 2,000 partners and staff from member firms of the PwC network have spent more than 500,000 hours supporting this report, which in addition to the opinion provides information on how I approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions that I, and my senior colleagues, had with the Group Audit Committee 'GAC'.
The audit approach remained broadly unchanged, and reflects how HSBC is organised.
It incorporated four important aspects.
1 Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level, having regard to HSBCs global businesses: Additional partners led our audit work on three of the global businesses.
Global Private Banking was not included because of its relative contribution to the financial statements.
These partners met regularly with the relevant HSBC management to understand strategy and matters which arose throughout the year that could have impacted financial reporting.
The partners are specialists in the nature of the relevant businesses and were best placed to design the appropriate audit approach for that part of HSBC.
They oversaw each PwC member firm involved in the audit of that global business and assisted me in my review of their work.
2 Audit work performed at global shared service centres: A significant amount of the operational processes which are critical to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by HSBC Operations Services and Technology 'HOST' across 11 individual locations.
Financial reporting processes are performed in HSBCs 4 Finance Operations Centres.
Working closely with me, a partner coordinated the audit work performed by PwC member firms in the UK, Poland, China, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India and Philippines.
This work established an end-to-end picture of the key processes that supported material balances, classes of transactions and disclosures within the HSBC financial statements.
It enabled the team to evaluate the effectiveness of the controls over these processes and to consider the implications for the remainder of our audit work.
Approximately 10% of the controls tested in the audit are undertaken in these sites.
3 Audit work executed on individual legal entities: I received opinions from PwC member firms which had been appointed as the external auditors of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, HSBC Mexico S. A. HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Dubai branch, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank UK plc, HSBC Global Services UK Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Limited together the 'Significant Subsidiaries'.
I was in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners responsible for these audits: this included consideration of how well they planned and performed their work.
My senior colleagues and I visited these Significant Subsidiaries, and attended Audit Committee meetings for most of them.
We also visited businesses in a further three countries.
These visits increased our understanding of some of the smaller businesses within HSBC.
I also attended meetings with management in each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year-end.
The audits of these Significant Subsidiaries relied upon work performed by PwC member firms in Australia, China, India, France, and Germany.
I considered how my Significant Subsidiary audit teams instructed and reviewed the work undertaken in these locations in order to ensure the quality and adequacy of their work.
Collectively, the PwC member firms completed procedures covering 85% of assets, 75% of total operating income and 85% of profit before tax.
4 Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the parent company: I ensured that appropriate further work was undertaken for the HSBC Group and parent company.
This work included auditing, for example, the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors' remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures, and managements entity level and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting.
In March 2018, I chaired a three-day meeting in London of the partners and senior staff from PwC member firms who undertake audits of the Significant Subsidiaries.
There were no significant changes in this team during 2018.
The meeting provided an opportunity for those partners and staff to hear directly from HSBC management, including the new Group CEO who outlined his areas of focus.
We considered during this meeting how our view of significant audit risks had changed.
1 We have audited HSBC Holdings plcs financial statements which comprise the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018, the consolidated and parent company income statements and the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We have also audited the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 1 January 2018.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as Audited.
The relevant disclosures are included in the Global businesses and geographical regions sections on pages 47 to 49: the Risk sections on pages 79 to 146: the Capital sections on pages 148 to 149: and the Directors' remuneration report disclosures on pages 185 to 197.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 207 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Changes to the audit in 2018 More detailed changes in the approach arose because of: 1 Changes in the structure and strategy of the HSBC Group In assessing the Significant Subsidiaries in 2018 I limited work performed on HSBC Bank Middle East Limited to the Dubai branch and removed HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. because of its relative size.
HSBC Bank UK plc, the ring-fenced retail bank, was included for the first time because it commenced trading as an independent entity in July 2018.
There were no other changes in scope.
"2 Impairment of assets required under IFRS 9 ""Financial Instruments"" IFRS 9 was applied from 1 January 2018."
It has changed the classification and measurement of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and the calculation of impairment on assets.
With respect to impairment, this has been a substantial exercise for HSBC with changes required to processes and controls to comply with the complexities of the accounting standard.
I asked a partner who is a specialist in IFRS 9 to lead the audit of the processes adopted, assumptions made, and control framework established for both the analysis of the transition included in Note 37 and the current year impacts included in the audited credit risk disclosures on pages 79 to 146.
The additional work required drove much of the increased audit fee in both 2018 and 2017.
The work undertaken included a review of over 120 models used to calculate the expected losses, but also considered the controls governing the origination, maintenance and necessary adjustments to the data used by these models, much of which had not previously been subject to the application of internal controls suitable for financial reporting.
Time was spent considering how macroeconomic events could impact the calculation of expected loss through the application of forward economic guidance.
This guidance cannot consider all possible outcomes that could occur in the future, but is an estimate based on information available at the date of the financial statements.
As this is a new and complex accounting standard, market practice will emerge that may lead to refinements in the methodology adopted.
3 The impact of geopolitical tensions on the macro environment Geopolitical factors were considered to determine if changes in the approach were required, for example: the impacts of the UK's departure from the EU, China-US trade arrangements, tensions in the Middle East and changing oil prices.
I specifically considered how these matters were reflected in IFRS 9, but more broadly on the valuation of assets and liabilities.
IFRS requires financial statements to carry certain assets at fair value, as discussed in Note 1.
Where this is the case, it is the value on 31 December 2018, and therefore the financial statements cannot reflect changes which will occur in the future as a result of these or other events.
4 Adding unpredictability to our audit procedures As required by auditing standards, my team undertook procedures which were deliberately unexpected and could not have reasonably been predicted by HSBC management.
As an example, the team in the Middle East undertook unannounced cash counts in branches during the year.
The results of these procedures were consistent with our expectations.
5 Using the work of others During 2018 I made more use of evidence provided by others.
This included testing of controls performed by Group Internal Audit and management themselves in some low risk areas.
I also used the work of experts where this is necessary, most notably: the calculation of pension liabilities.
An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties, where I rely on audit evidence provided by other audit firms not part of the PwC network.
For example, I obtain a report evidencing the testing of external systems and controls supporting HSBCs payroll and HR processes.
In all of these situations, the PwC audit teams reviewed the work undertaken and determined it to be acceptable for the purposes of the audit.
6 Innovations in the audit My senior colleagues and I are committed to driving innovation and the use of technology in the audit to improve quality and consistency.
A workshop was held in India for the PwC member firms involved in the audit to explore how work could be enhanced and new audit procedures could be undertaken.
As a result of this workshop, we identified three areas of focus, Ways of Working, Technology Enabled Audit, and Reliance on Others.
As a result, we have implemented our Agile working methodology and tools to deliver sections of the audit more efficiently, such as maximising the use of our own offshore service delivery centres for approximately 100 audit procedures that can be performed consistently for all audit teams.
To make our audit more technology enabled, we developed five solutions to automate certain standard audit procedures and increased our use of robotics, data analytics and process intelligence.
Responsibilities of the Directors and auditor The Directors have, on page 206 acknowledged their responsibility to prepare the financial statements to give a true and fair view: to have controls enabling them to be satisfied that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: and, as described below to assess whether the Group and parent company can continue as a going concern.
It is the sole responsibility of the Directors to ensure that you receive financial statements which are both true and fair.
However, an audit has an important role in providing confidence in the financial statements that are provided by companies to their members.
That confidence is based upon independence and objectivity.
I can confirm that PwC remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to the audit of listed public interest entities in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard.
PwC has also fulfilled its other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
There has been considerable media debate about the impact that other services may have on auditor independence.
I reviewed the details of services provided by the PwC network of firms and concluded that they were all permitted by the FRCs Ethical Standard, as discussed on page 160, the GAC also rigorously reviewed these other services.
The fees for all services provided by members of the PwC network is included in Note 7.
Of these fees, 94% are for services related to the audit or providing independent assurance, I am working with the GAC to ensure that progressively during 2019 our services relate solely to these categories.
The audit opinion does not provide assurance over any particular number or disclosure, but over the financial statements taken as a whole.
The scope of an audit is sometimes not fully understood.
I believe that it is important that you understand the scope in order to understand the assurance that my opinion provides.
A further description of the scope of an audit is provided on the FRCs website at www.
uk : I recommend that you read this description carefully.
It is also critical that you understand the inherent limitations of the audit which are disclosed in this description, including the possibility that an approach based upon sampling and other audit techniques may not identify all issues.
208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBCHoldings plc As in all PwC statutory audits I did specifically address the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
While our audit procedures include obtaining representations that the Group is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, an audit does not involve testing HSBCs compliance with each of the very large number of laws and regulations with which the Group, as a financial services business, must comply.
I and my colleagues apply judgement in selecting the specific laws and regulations as the focus of our audit procedures.
For example, we focused on business authorisations issued by the Prudential Regulatory Authority because in our judgement a breach could lead to a material impact on the financial statements or the Groups going concern.
Audit procedures were performed to identify if any such breaches had occurred.
These procedures included regularly meeting with some of the Groups regulators, reviewing correspondence with both regulators and legal advisors and meeting with the Group General Counsel.
Annually the Prudential Regulatory Authority provide questions covering aspects of our audit where they would like further information to assist them in their regulatory responsibilities.
These questions did not highlight any areas that I had not already considered in our audit.
Materiality In order for me to perform my work, I had regard to the concept of materiality.
The table provides you with details of how I have determined materiality for both the Group and the parent company.
Group Parent company Overall Group materiality $1bn 2017: $900m $1bn 2017: $900m How I determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding the debit valuation 0.75% of total assets.
This would result in an overall adjustment and non-qualifying hedges.
materiality of $1.8bn and is therefore capped at the materiality for the Group.
Why I believe this is Given the geographically dispersed nature of HSBC and the A benchmark of total assets has been used as the parent appropriate diversity of its banking activities, I believe a standard companys primary purpose is to act as a holding company benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit before tax is an with investments in the groups subsidiaries, not to generate appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although of operating profits and therefore a profit based measure is not course an item could also be material for qualitative reasons.
I selected adjusted profit before tax, because as discussed on 1% is a commonly used measure when determining page 47, management believes it best reflects the materiality based on total assets.
Given the parent company performance of HSBC.
I excluded the debit valuation has a significant level of external debt, we considered 0.75% adjustment and non-qualifying hedges as they are recurring to be more appropriate.
items that in my view form part of ongoing business performance.
When planning the Group audit, I considered if multiple errors might exist which, when aggregated, could exceed $1bn.
In order to reduce the risk of multiple errors that could aggregate to this amount, I used a lower level of materiality, known as performance materiality, of $750m to identify the individual balances, classes of transactions and disclosures that were subject to audit.
I asked each of the partners reporting to me on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the operations they audited.
The overall materialities ranged from $67m HSBC Mexico S. A. to $837m The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
My objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Reasonable assurance is not a guarantee that an audit will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
It is important to recognise that identifying a material misstatement arising from fraud is more difficult than identifying one arising solely from error because fraud generally involves deliberate concealment, collusion or misrepresentation.
Misstatements are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The misstatements identified during the audit were carefully considered to assess if they were individually or in aggregate material.
I agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $50m 2017: $50m, as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
I reported several items for both the Group and parent company to the GAC, impacting either the absolute level of profit and equity or misclassifications within the financial statements and notes.
The Directors concluded that all items which remained unadjusted were not material to the financial statements.
All other significant adjustments that we identified in our audit were adjusted by the Group prior to the issuance of the financial statements.
Matters discussed with the GAC Most of our discussions occur with senior management of the Group.
However, we escalate those matters which we believe are most important to the GAC for their consideration.
I attended each of the 13 GAC meetings held during the year.
Part of each meeting involved a discussion without management present.
I also met with members of the GAC a further 20 times.
During these various conversations we discussed my observations on a variety of accounting matters, observations on controls over financial reporting, culture and the impact of changes in senior management.
I can confirm that this report is consistent with the reporting made to the GAC.
During the April meeting, the audit plan was presented.
This was supplemented by an update in December on how technology was being used in the audit.
Throughout the year, this plan was refreshed and revisions discussed with the GAC.
For example, given the focus on jaws as an alternative performance measure in external reporting and sensitivity to changes in income and expense recognition significantly lower than materiality, I changed our risk assessment and audit effort.
I discussed with the GAC all of the matters that presented the most significant risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
They include those that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, and the allocation of resources and effort and are discussed below together with an explanation of how the audit was tailored to address these specific areas.
To help you understand their impact on the audit, I have listed them in order of decreasing audit effort.
This is not a list of all audit risks and I do not form an opinion on any one area, but on the financial statements overall.
The list is similar to last year, with the exception of litigation and regulatory enforcement actions, which was not a key audit matter in 2018 as a result of the settlements made by the Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report IT Access Management Discussion with the GAC The audit approach relies extensively on automated controls and therefore on the effectiveness of controls over IT systems.
In previous years, we identified and reported that controls over access to applications, operating systems and data in the financial reporting process required improvements.
Access management controls are critical to ensure that changes to applications and underlying data are made in an appropriate manner.
Appropriate access controls contribute to mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of changes to applications and data.
Over the past four years, management implemented remediation activities that have contributed to reducing the risk over access management in the financial reporting process.
The status of the remediation was discussed at several GAC meetings during the year.
However, issues related to privileged access and business user access remained unresolved on parts of the technology infrastructure, requiring our audit approach to respond to the risks presented.
This matter was discussed in relation to both the Group and the parent company.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Access rights were tested over applications, operating systems and databases relied upon for financial reporting.
Specifically, the audit tested that: New access requests for joiners were properly reviewed and authorised.
User access rights were removed on a timely basis when an individual left or moved role.
Access rights to applications, operating systems and databases were periodically monitored for appropriateness.
Highly privileged access was restricted to appropriate personnel.
Other areas that were independently assessed included password policies, security configurations, controls over changes to applications and databases and that business users, developers and production support did not have access to change applications, the operating system or databases in the production environment.
As a consequence of the deficiencies identified, a range of other procedures were performed: Where inappropriate access was identified, we understood the nature of the access, and, where possible, obtained additional evidence on the appropriateness of the activities performed.
Additional substantive testing was performed on specific year-end reconciliations i. e. custodian, bank account and suspense account reconciliations and confirmations with external counterparties.
Testing was performed on other compensating controls such as review controls undertaken by management.
Testing was performed over toxic combination controls.
A list of users access permissions was obtained and manually compared to other access lists where segregation of duties was deemed to be of higher risk, for example users having access to both core banking and payments systems.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 GAC Report, page 160.
Effectiveness of internal controls, page 164.
Application of IFRS 9 in the calculation of impairment of loans and advances Discussion with the GAC As this is the first year of adoption of IFRS 9, there is limited experience available to back-test the charge for expected credit losses ECL with actual results.
There is also a significant increase in the number of data inputs required for the impairment calculation.
The data is sourced from a number of systems that have not been used previously for the preparation of the accounting records.
This increases risk around completeness and accuracy of certain data used to create assumptions and operate the models.
The global credit environment has remained benign for an extended period of time, in part due to the globally low interest rates and relative strength of the global economy.
However, there are a number of headwinds to the global economy as well as certain regional and country specific risks.
As a result, whilst the current levels of delinquencies and defaults remains low, the risk of impairment remains significant.
At each GAC and Group Risk Committee meeting there was a discussion on changes to risk factors and other inputs within the models, geopolitical risks, such as the escalating US-China trade wars and the UK's departure from the EU, as well as discussions on individually significant loan impairments.
The more judgemental interpretations of IFRS 9 made by management continued to be discussed, in particular the application of forward economic guidance, including the severity and magnitude of modelled downside scenarios: and associated considerations of post model adjustments.
As the control environment for the calculation of ECL under IFRS 9 continued to be strengthened following initial adoption, we provided updates on the changes being made and the results of our testing procedures.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Model performance monitoring controls were tested, including periodic policy and independent model reviews, back testing of performance, and approval of model changes.
Performed risk based substantive testing of models, including independently re-building certain assumptions.
Tested the review and challenge of multiple economic scenarios by an expert panel and internal governance committee, and assessed the reasonableness of the multiple economic scenarios and variables using our economic experts.
Controls over the inputs of critical data, into source system, and the flow and transformation of data between source systems to the impairment calculation engine were tested.
Substantive testing was performed over the critical data used in the year end ECL calculation.
Assessed managements user acceptance testing over the automated calculation of ECL to ensure it is performed in line with business requirements, as well as independently reviewing the underlying script to validate that the calculation operated as per our expectations.
Observed review and challenge forums to assess the ECL output and approval of post model adjustments.
Tested the approval of the key inputs, assumptions and discounted cash-flows that support the significant individual impairments, and substantively tested a sample of individually assessed loans.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Credit risk disclosures, page 88.
Note 1.2 d : Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 228.
Note 37: Effects of reclassification upon adoption of IFRS 9, page 296.
210 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBCHoldings plc Investment in associate - Bank of Communications Company, Limited BoCom Discussion with the GAC For eight consecutive year ends the market value of BoCom has been below the carrying value.
At 31 December, the market value based on the share price was $6.8bn lower than the carrying value.
This is considered an indicator of potential impairment.
An impairment test was performed by HSBC using a value in use 'VIU' model to estimate the investments value assuming it continues to be held in perpetuity rather than sold.
The VIU was only $300m in excess of the carrying value.
On this basis no impairment was recorded and the share of BoComs profits has been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The VIU model is dependent on many assumptions, both short-term and long-term in nature.
These assumptions are derived from a combination of management estimates, analysts forecasts and market data, and are highly judgemental.
Given the proximity of the carrying value and VIU, small changes in some of these assumptions would lead to an impairment.
We discussed the appropriateness of these assumptions with the GAC, particularly those with the greatest sensitivity related to short term cash flows and the minimum level of capital required by BoCom.
The focus of this discussion was on whether the impact of China-US trade tensions and perspectives on the China banking market had been fully reflected.
We also reviewed with the GAC the long term profit growth rate and loan impairment rate, and considered reasonably possible alternatives.
In the discussion we specifically considered whether the assumptions used captured the current levels of uncertainty, both individually and when standing back and considering the output of the model in aggregate.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The conclusions on the appropriateness of the model were reviewed, including an assessment of management's expert.
A reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model was independently calculated with the assistance of our valuation experts.
Inputs used in the determination of assumptions within the model were challenged and corroborating information was obtained with reference to external market information, third-party sources, including analyst reports, and historical publicly available BoCom information.
The controls in place over the model, and its mathematical accuracy were tested.
We observed a meeting in November 2018 between management and senior BoCom executive management, held specifically to identify facts or circumstances impacting management assumptions.
Disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 in relation to BoCom were reviewed.
Representations were obtained from HSBC that the assumptions used were consistent with information currently available to them, both as a shareholder and to which HSBC are entitled through their participation on BoCom's Board of Directors.
Note 1.1 f : Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 226.
Note 18: Interests in associates and joint ventures, page 265.
Management override of controls - alternative performance measure Discussion with the GAC The use of alternative performance measures is common by listed companies to help better explain performance.
HSBC use a number, and the GAC has considered them in detail during the year, specifically assessing the appropriateness of adjusted profit.
During the year we discussed with the GAC the potential for the jaws target to be missed.
Given the metric is highly sensitive to small changes in revenue and cost, we concluded that this increased the incentive for management to override controls to meet targets.
This change in assessment prompted us to perform a number of incremental procedures which might indicate that revenue or costs were intentionally misstated.
We communicated the change in risk assessment during October 2018, and designed a year end testing response as a result.
The outcome of our testing was communicated to the GAC in February 2019.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Reassessed significant judgements in light of the enhanced incentives noted in the risk assessment.
Performed additional tests on journals, specifically considering cut off and unusual combinations that impact costs and revenue.
Performed work over revenue and expenses booked in January 2019 to assess if they were included in the correct period.
Tested the clearance and appropriateness of classification of aged reconciliation breaks, considering if there was a trend towards only resolving issues which would improve revenue or reduce costs.
Considered the accuracy of accruals with a specific focus on the bonus accrual.
Tested impairment processes at year end, identifying where booking of impairments may have been delayed into FY19 or was close to meeting criteria for impairment at year end.
There were a number of other matters which were covered in the meetings, including: the impact of models on the financial statements and the related control environment.
The carrying value of almost 70% of the Groups total assets is calculated or supported by models and included areas such as loans and advances, calculation of the present value of inforce policies sold by the insurance businesses and goodwill.
Our audit work considered the controls over, inputs into and reasonableness of the outputs of those models with a material impact: internal controls over financial reporting.
At the GAC meetings in November 2018 and February 2019, there was an update on the control environment over financial reporting.
I provided information on the aggregate number of new and outstanding control deficiencies identified by my team and management.
Those deemed to be significant in their potential impact on financial reporting, but not material, were discussed individually: a focus on uncertain tax positions 'UTPs'.
During the November GAC meeting, I highlighted the increase in UTP exposure, particularly in the UK entities due to increased focus from HMRC on UK VAT matters in financial services Groups.
This increase in UTP exposure is consistent with our expectations based on what weve seen across the sector and given the nature of the Groups business: and a detailed discussion on the quality of the results of quality inspections performed with respect to the audit work of different PwC member firms on which I rely, and the rotation plans for key audit partners.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Going concern On page 165, the Directors confirmed their belief it was appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, because they believe that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
That statement also included confirmation that they had not identified any material uncertainties to either the Groups or the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of their approval of these financial statements.
Because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee.
I reviewed this statement, and considered HSBCs budgets, cash flows, capital plan and stress tests.
There is nothing arising from this review that is materially inconsistent with my understanding and information obtained during the audit.
Further, there is nothing material that I would add to this statement, or that I wish to draw your attention to.
Other required matters and reporting on other information The Annual Report and Accounts 2018 contains a considerable amount of other information that is required by regulators or standard setters and is outside of the audited financial statements and the auditors report.
This information, while being unaudited, may still be important to your consideration of the performance and position of HSBC, for example risk weighted assets.
The Directors are responsible for this other information.
In the table below, I have set out certain areas, my related responsibilities and reporting.
Except as outlined in the table, I have not provided an audit opinion or any form of assurance.
It is important that you understand the limitations in the scope of my responsibility, particularly over areas important to considering the future potential of HSBC such as the Viability Statement and how the Groups key risks are managed.
My responsibility My reporting Area of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors remuneration report on pages 172 to 205 Those parts of which are marked as audited.
Consider whether the information is properly In my opinion, this information has been properly prepared.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Consider whether certain other disclosures The other required disclosures have been made.
specified by the Companies Act have been made.
Other areas Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors Consider whether they are consistent with the In my opinion, based on the work undertaken in on pages 2 to 206. audited financial statements.
the course of the audit, the information in these Consider whether they are prepared in accordance reports is consistent with the audited financial with applicable legal requirements.
statements and prepared in accordance with Report if I have identified any material applicable legal requirements.
This is based on my knowledge and understanding of the Group I have no material misstatements to report.
and parent company and the environment they operate in that was obtained during the audit.
Viability statement on page 165 which considers Review the confirmation and description in the I have nothing material to draw attention to or to the longer term sustainability of the Groups light of the knowledge gathered during the audit, add to the confirmation or description.
business model, as to whether the Directors have including making enquiries and considering the a reasonable expectation that the Group will be directors processes used to support the able to continue in operation and meet its statements made.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Consider if the statements are aligned with the assessment, and why the Directors consider that relevant provisions of the UK Corporate period to be appropriate.
This includes confirmation of the Directors robust assessment of principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and disclosures describing those risks and how they are managed or mitigated.
Consider whether it deals appropriately with those No exceptions to report.
matters that I reported to the GAC.
Directors statement on page 206 that they Consider whether any information found during No disagreements to report.
consider the HSBC Annual Report and Accounts the course of the audit would cause me to 2018, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and disagree.
understandable and provides the information necessary for you to assess HSBCs position and performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate governance report on pages 152 to Consider whether the Directors statement Nothing to report following my review.
171. relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code properly discloses any departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
All other information in the Annual Report and Read the other information and consider whether Nothing to report following my review.
Accounts 2018 aside from the audited financial it is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the auditors report.
statements or our knowledge gained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
I am required to perform additional work to validate if apparent inconsistencies or misstatements are real, and report those matters to you.
212 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBCHoldings plc Other Reporting In addition, I am required to report to you under the Companies Act 2006 if: I have not received all of the information and explanations required for my audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: returns adequate for my audit have not been received from branches not visited by PwC: and the parent company financial statements and the audited part of the Directors remuneration report do not agree with the accounting records and returns.
I have no exceptions to report as a result of any of these responsibilities.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for you, the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come except where expressly agreed by our prior written consent.
Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 19 February 2019 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
