Strategic Report Strategic priorities We entered the next phase of our strategy in 2018, focused on growth and creating value for our stakeholders.
Return to growth and value creation In our June 2018 Strategy Update, purchasing of homes, as we grew our points to 6.2%, driven by broad-based 8 we outlined eight strategic priorities mortgage market share to 6.6%.
For revenue growth across our four global to deliver growth, improve returns, our corporate clients, we launched our businesses.
We continue to redeploy empower our people, and enhance our largest ever dedicated SME fund, with RWAs to higher-return businesses.
Each priority has 12bn of funding, including 1bn of Putting the customer at the centre a target or set of targeted outcomes funding to help UK companies grow by 2020.
The table opposite contains overseas.
While HSBC UK has seen Strategic priority 6: We aim to create a summary of our progress, with initial growth in retail customers up the capacity to invest in growth and additional details provided below.
by 251,000, a growth of 2%, we are technology through a combination of still driving initiatives to grow our cost discipline and revenue growth.
We Growth from areas of strength commercial customer base.
did not achieve our target of positive Strategic priority 1: We made a strong adjusted jaws in 2018, in part due to Strategic priority 3: We continue to start in accelerating growth from our unexpected market volatility in the last make investments to enable growth in Asian franchise after making select two months of the year, which impacted our international network.
In Global Trade investments in areas such as Hong revenue.
However, we remain committed and Receivables Finance GTRF, we Kong and our wealth business.
Overall, to the discipline of positive adjusted jaws.
are investing in a transformation of our Asia adjusted revenue was 11% higher Our revenue growth helped support operating model to help clients and than the previous year with double- $4.1bn in investment for business growth, colleagues conduct trade and manage digit growth in Hong Kong, mainland productivity, regulatory and mandatory capital more efficiently.
In Securities China and the Pearl River Delta.
We are already seeing results, Services, we are developing our digital Despite some market uncertainty, we with approximately 45% of retail proposition across many products.
continued to support customers as customers now digitally active and We are on track to achieve our target we increased loan balances by 9%.
more than 30% of sales through digital of mid to high single-digit revenue 7 9 Our wealth business in Asia gained channels.
In CMB, we halved the growth by 2020. International client positive momentum with double-digit onboarding time to an average of revenue was up 7% compared with revenue growth in Private Banking and 11 days for clients.
2017: transaction banking revenue Asset Management, and 4% growth in grew 14%, driven by double-digit Strategic priority 7: We exist, at our RBWM Wealth distribution.
However, growth across Global Liquidity and core, to serve our customers and we Asia Insurance manufacturing revenue Cash Management GLCM, Foreign made a commitment in June 2018 to was down 11% versus 2017 due to Exchange and Securities Services.
improve customer service in our eight adverse market conditions.
10 GTRF revenue grew by 2%, reflecting scale markets.
We are measuring the subdued global trade environment.
We continue to support clients and our performance against customer economies through the China-led Belt satisfaction indices.
In 2018, six markets Turnaround of low-return and Road Initiative, and FinanceAsia in RBWM and three markets in CMB businesses recognised our market leadership by sustained a top-three rank and or awarding us the Best Belt and Road Strategic priority 4: The US turnaround improved by two ranks in customer Bank in Asia for the second is our most challenging strategic priority.
Our US return on tangible equity RoTE Empower our people increased from 0.9% to 2.7%, supported In sustainable finance, our goal is by favourable expected credit losses, and Strategic priority 8: We have committed to be a leading partner for our clients capital released to HSBC Holdings.
to simplifying the organisation and to help the worlds transition to a However, significant improvement is investing in the future skills of our low-carbon economy.
We have made required to achieve our 2020 targeted employees.
We continue to improve our good progress with our ambition outcome of greater than 6% RoTE in the US.
employee engagement, as reflected in the to provide $100bn of sustainable Investments in our platforms and products improvement of our employee advocacy financing, facilitation and investment are supporting organic growth.
Our active by two percentage points to 66%.
Our by 2025, with a cumulative total of customer base in RBWM increased by ESG rating is derived from the impact we $28.5bn delivered in 2017 and 2018. nearly 200,000 to 1.3 million people.
We have on our wider stakeholders.
We are For further details on our sustainable grew CMB revenue by 7% and transaction currently rated an Average performer, finance commitment, see page 27. banking revenue in GB&M by 9%.
and we are driving several initiatives Strategic priority 2: We completed to achieve an Outperformer rating.
Strategic priority 5: To enhance returns for the set-up of our UK ring-fenced bank, Information on how we are empowering our shareholders, we have committed to HSBC UK, six months ahead of the our people can be found in the How we improving our capital efficiency.
In 2018, legal deadline, and we opened our do business section on pages 22 to 29, our revenue over risk-weighted assets new UK head office in Birmingham.
with additional details in our ESG Update RWAs ratio grew by 0.3 percentage We supported our retail customers in April 2019.
12 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic priorities Progress on our strategic priorities Performance in Targets by end of 2018 vs prior Strategic priorities 2020 period Highlights 7 Accelerate growth High single-digit Asia adjusted Wealth in Asia revenue, excluding market impacts 12 1 from our Asia revenue growth p. a. revenue: 11% in Insurance, improved 13% 10 franchise: be the from Asia franchise Hong Kong: 14% Five of eight scale markets gained loan and or deposit 13 leading bank to Market share Pearl River Delta: market share support drivers of gains in eight 31% Belt and Road Initiative: Awarded Best Belt and 10 global investment: scale markets ASEAN: 3% Road Bank in Asia for the second consecutive year 7 Deliver China-led Belt and No.
1 international Wealth in Asia : 1% by FinanceAsia growth Road Initiative and bank for Belt and Sustainable financing Pearl River Delta: Launched co-brand credit card from areas the transition to a Road Initiative and investment with JD Finance low-carbon economy $100bn in sustainable global : $28.5bn Awarded Asias Best Bank for Sustainable Finance of strength financing and cumulative $17.4bn by Euromoney 11 investment in 2018 Complete the Market share gains Market share in Completed set-up of UK ring-fenced bank and opened 2 establishment mortgages: 6.6% new UK head office in Birmingham in October 2018 of UK ring-fenced 0.5 percentage Launched dedicated SME fund with 12bn of funding, bank and grow points including 1bn of funding to help UK companies market share grow overseas Launched Connected Money app to enable retail banking customers to view balances and transactions from their UK bank accounts, including those with other providers, in one place Gain market Mid to high International client GLCM revenue 21%: FX revenue 10%: Securities 3 share and deliver single-digit revenue revenue: 7% Services revenue 11%: GTRF revenue 2% despite 15 growth from our growth per annum Transaction banking subdued global trade environment 16 international from international revenue: 14% Market share gains in GLCM, GTRF and FX : GTRF 14 network network market share in Singapore and Hong Kong up by three Market share gains in and one percentage points, respectively transaction banking Turn around US return on tangible US RoTE: 2.7% 1.8 US adjusted revenue of $4.8bn up 1% vs 2017 4 our US business equity 6% percentage points Adjusted profit before tax of $1.0bn up 32% vs 2017 Nearly 200,000 more active retail customers Completed multi-year core banking system upgrade, paving the way for significantly enhanced client digital experience Turnaround Improve capital Increase in asset Revenue average Overall capital efficiency improvement driven by 4% of low-return efficiency productivity RWA: 6.2% 30bps revenue growth 5 businesses Continue to redeploy RWAs to higher-return businesses Create capacity Positive adjusted Adjusted jaws: Jaws impacted by negative market environment in the for increasing jaws, on an annual negative 1.2% last quarter of 2018 6 investments in basis, each financial Revenue growth helped support $4.1bn in investment for growth and year growth, productivity, regulatory and mandatory purposes technology through efficiency gains Build a bank for the future Enhance customer Improve customer Markets that sustained Improved digital capabilities and customer journeys 17 7 centricity and satisfaction in eight top-three rank and or RBWM: circa 45% of customers now digitally that puts the 10 customer service scale markets improved by two ranks active and more than 30% of sales are through customer at 20 in customer satisfaction: digital channels the centre 18 RBWM: six markets CMB: simplified online journeys on HSBCnet for 19 CMB: three markets 41,000 clients across 36 countries Simplify the Improved employee Employee Made governance more efficient, simplified policies, 8 organisation and engagement engagement: and streamlined processes invest in future skills ESG rating: 66% 2% Actively promoted learning and development 21 Outperformer ESG rating: opportunities for employees with the set-up of Average performer the HSBC University Online and additional online training courses Empower our people For footnotes, see page 67.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
