be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against claims Board of Directors from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
Additionally, all Directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability Appointment, retirement and re-election of insurance.
Directors None of the Directors had, during the year, a material interest, Appointments to the Board are made on merit, and candidates are directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC considered against objective criteria, having due regard to the company.
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their benefits of the diversity of the Board.
A rigorous selection process obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities and, is followed in relation to the appointment of Directors and certain save as disclosed on page 168, all Directors have confirmed that specified senior appointments.
they have complied with their obligations.
The number of Directors must not be fewer than five nor exceed Training and development 25.
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director, Following a period of induction, training and development is either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
The Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment provided for each Director with the support of the Group Company orexecutive office, and may revoke or terminate any such Secretary.
Non-executive Directors develop andrefresh their skills appointment.
and knowledge through periodic interactions and briefings with senior management of the Groups businesses and functions.
Newly appointed Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting During the year, Directors and the Group Company Secretary AGM following appointment and are eligible for election.
undertook mandatory training on a range of issues, including: antiDirectors are nominated for annual re-election by shareholders money laundering: anti-bribery and corruption: embedding good subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an conduct: cybersecurity, and sanctions.
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
Subsidiary governance Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term The Group Chairman hosted two governance forums during 2018 and, subject to re-election by shareholders at each AGM, are for the Chairs of the Group's principal subsidiaries.
Awareness and typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may discussion sessions were conducted by senior executives and invite a Director to serve additional periods.
Any term beyond six subject matter experts.
These covered capital management, years is subject to particularly rigorous review by the Nomination investor demands, conduct, UK regulatory matters, IT resilience, & Corporate Governance Committee.
cybersecurity, data, and financial crime risk management.
Initiatives were agreed on enhancements to the accountability of The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive the principal subsidiaries for governance oversight across their Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the respective regions, and the improvement of information flows expectations of them and the estimated time required to perform between the Group and the principal subsidiary boards.
The current anticipated time commitment, which is Additionally, discussions took place concerning the strategic subject to periodic review, is 75 days per year.
Non-executive planning cycle, reducing organisational complexity, interactions Directors who chair a Board committee are expected to devote up with regulators and board succession planning.
to 100 days per year to the Group.
The Chairman of the GRC is expected to commit up to 150 days per year reflecting the Jonathan Symonds, Chair of the Group Audit Committee GAC, complexity of the role and responsibilities of this Committee.
All and Jackson Tai, Chair of the GRC, hosted regional forums during non-executive Directors have confirmed they can meet this 2018 with the Chairs of the Groups subsidiary audit and risk requirement, taking into account any other commitments they committees.
have at the time of appointment, and, in practice, most devote Shareholder engagement considerably more time.
Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the During their term of appointment, non-executive Directors are Board.
Extensive information about HSBC and its activities is expected to consult the Group Chairman or the Group Company provided to shareholders in its Annual Report and Accounts, the Secretary if they are considering whether to accept or vary any Strategic Report and the Interim Report as well as on commitments outside the Group.
The agreement of the Group www.
Chairman is required if any additional or changed commitment might affect the time that a Director is able to devote to his or her To complement these publications, there is regular dialogue with role with the Group.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholdings and HSBCs business are Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each nonwelcomed.
executive Director are available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings.
Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Induction As SID, Jonathan Symonds is available toshareholders if they Formal induction programmes are arranged for newly appointed have concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal Directors based on the individuals needs, skills and experience.
He may be contacted via Typically, these consist of a series of meetings with other Directors theGroup Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London and senior executives, as well as local site visits to provide E145HQ.
Directors also receive comprehensive guidance from the Group Company Secretary on the Groups The AGM and other general meetings corporate governance framework and associated policies, as well The 2019 AGM will be held at theInternational Convention Centre, as their duties as Directors on the Board.
Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am on Friday, 12 April Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors 2019 and a live webcast will be available on www.
A recording of the proceedings will be available on www.
com and contracts of significance shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
Shareholders are The Board has established a policy and a set of procedures encouraged to attend the meeting.
Shareholders may send relating to Directors conflicts of interest.
Where conflicts of enquiries to the Board in writing via the Group Company interest arise, the Board has the power to authorise them.
A Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ review of those conflicts that have been authorised, and the terms or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.
of those authorisations, is routinely undertaken by the Board.
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting The Articles of Association contain a qualifying third-party other than an AGM as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other Officers to Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
