HSBCs control environment and it will continue to be a priority in confirmations to the GAC regarding whether their financial 2019. statements have been prepared in accordance with Group policies.
They also present fairly the state of affairs of the The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive relevant principal subsidiary and are prepared on a going management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to concern basis.
remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group's framework of controls.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control over financial reporting was Internal control over financial reporting conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework.
Based on HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanesthe assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year ended 31 December 2018, the Groups internal control over Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2018.
In 2014, the GAC financial reporting was effective.
endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 framework for the PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBCs internal control over monitoring of risk management and internal control systems to financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Internal audit The key risk management and internal control procedures over financial reporting include the following: The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally controlled, provides independent and objective assurance of the design Entity level controls: The primary mechanism through which andoperating effectiveness of the Groups framework of risk comfort over risk management and internal control systems is management, control and governance processes, focusing on the achieved, is through assessments of the effectiveness of entity areas of greatest risk.
As mentioned previously, the Group Head of level controls ELC, and the reporting of risk and control Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GAC and frequent issues on a regular basis through the various risk management meetings are held between them during the year.
Executive and risk governance forums.
ELCs are internal controls that management is responsible for ensuring that issues raised by the have a pervasive influence over the entity as a whole.
They Global Internal Audit function are addressed within an appropriate include controls related to the control environment, for example and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect must be provided the Companys values and ethics, the promotion of effective to Global Internal Audit.
risk management and the overarching governance exercised by the Board and its non-executive committees.
The design and operational effectiveness of ELCs are assessed annually as part Going concern and viability of the assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
If issues are significant to the Group they The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial are escalated to the GAC for financial reporting issues and or statements on a going concern basis.
GRC for all other risk types.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors must Operational risk management framework: Key process also provide a viability statement.
They must state whether level controls that mitigate the risk of financial misstatement theGroup will be able to continue in operation and meet its are recorded in the Operational Risk system and monitored in liabilities, taking into account its current position and the principal accordance with the ORMF.
Further details on the framework risks it faces.
They must also specify the period covered by, and can be found on page 73. the appropriateness of, this statement.
Disclosure Committee: Chaired by the Group Company The Directors have specified a period of three years to Secretary, this Committee supports the discharge of the 31December 2021.
They are satisfied that a forward-looking Groups obligations under relevant legislation and regulation assessment of the Group for this period is sufficient to enable including the UK and Hong Kong listing rules, the Market areasonable statement of viability.
In addition, this period is Abuse Regulation and US Securities and Exchange Commission covered by the Groups stress testing programmes, and its internal rules.
In so doing, the Committee isempowered to determine projections for profitability, key capital ratios and leverage ratios.
whether a new event or circumstance should be disclosed, Notwithstanding this, our stress testing programmes also cover including the form and timing of such disclosure, and review all scenarios out to five years and our assessment of risks are beyond material disclosures made or to be made by the Group.
The three years where appropriate.
membership of the Disclosure Committee includes the Group Based upon their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Communications and meet liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
Officer, Global Head of Investor Relations, Group Chief of Staff and Group Financial Controller.
The Company's brokers and its In making their going concern and viability assessments, the external legal counsel also attend as required.
The integrity of Directors have considered a wide range of detailed information disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes within relating to present and potential conditions, including projections the Global Finance and Global Risk functions that support for profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and capital rigorous analytical review of financial reporting and the resources.
maintenance of proper accounting records.
As required by the The Directors carried out a robust assessment of each risk facing Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group Chief Executive and the Group the Group to determine the principal risks to its long-term viability, Chief Financial Officer have certified that the Group's disclosure including those that would threaten its solvency and liquidity.
They controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the determined that the principal risks are the Groups top and period covered by this annual report.
emerging risks, as set out on pages 69 to 72.
Financial reporting: The Groups financial reporting process is The Directors assessed that all of the top and emerging risks controlled using documented accounting policies and reporting identified are considered to be material and, therefore, appropriate formats, supported by detailed instructions and guidance on to be classified as the principal risks to be considered in the reporting requirements, issued to all reporting entities within assessment of viability.
They also appraised the impact that these the Group in advance of each reporting period end.
The principal risks could have on the Groups risk profile, taking submission of financial information from each reporting entity account of mitigating actions planned or taken for each, and is supported by a certification by the responsible financial compared this with the Groups risk appetite as approved by the officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity and Board.
At 31 December 2018, there were four heightened top and Group levels.
emerging risks: economic outlook and capital flows, geopolitical Subsidiary certifications to the GAC: The audit committees of principal subsidiary companies provide half-yearly HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
