St Str ra ate teg giic c r re ep po or rt t C Co or rp po or rat ate e g gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an ncia ciall s stta atte em me en ntts s O Otthe her r i in nffor orm ma ati tio on n O il a n d g a s e Our products and services Our business relationships Hunting generates value through the manufacture of Oil Country Tubular Goods products, provision of related services and supply of The Group owns proprietary connection TM rental equipment to the upstream energy sector used technology including the SEAL-LOCK and TM in the extraction of oil and gas.
WEDGE-LOCK premium connections and TM the TEC-LOCK semi-premium connection.
Our strategic focus is on the manufacture of products The Group manufactures couplings and used in the wellbore or forming part of the wellbores accessories and applies premium threads infrastructure.
to pipe for its customers throughout its global facilities.
Oil and gas extraction requires a diverse range of products and services.
The nature of the sector results in relationships Perforating Systems with business partners who can be customers, suppliers Hunting manufactures perforating guns, and competitors at different points in the value chain.
energetics charges and instrumentation used in well completion activities.
Products are manufactured across our global network and sold through distribution points in Canada, China, Indonesia, UAE, UK and US.
Advanced Manufacturing Advanced Manufacturing includes precision machining and electronics manufacturing, Customers both utilised in MWD LWD tools.
A range of non-oil and gas products are also engineered for the power generation, aviation, military and space sectors.
Drilling Tools Hunting Huntings Drilling Tools business provides mud motor rental services for operators in the onshore oil and gas basins of the US.
Competitors Suppliers Intervention Tools The Group manufactures a range of tools including Thru-Tubing, Slickline and Wireline tools and Pressure Control Equipment used for intervention activities.
Subsea Huntings Subsea business manufactures hydraulic couplings, valves and accessories for application to deep water drilling activities.
Investment highlights Robust fundamentals for the oil and gas industry Strategic focus on the wellbore Proprietary technologies and diverse product range World-class manufacturing facilities located close to our customers Proven track record of manufacturing excellence and reliability Experienced management team Focused on efficiency, cost control and cash generation Strong reputation with our customer base for delivering quality Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 03 x t r a c ti o n c y c l e
