Our business model How we create, distribute and sustain value Oil and gas extraction cycle Resources Our operating Our products we use segments and services 1 2 3 Health, safety and Financial Oil Country Tubular environment HSE Goods OCTG Hunting Titan Intellectual Property United States Perforating Systems Canada Operational Europe Asia Pacific Employees Middle East, Africa and Other Advanced Manufacturing Exploration and Production Stakeholder Relationships Quality and operational excellence See pages 30 to 34 See pages 35 to 37 See pages 38 to 39 28 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Oil and gas extraction cycle Resources Our operating Our products Our customers Sustainable we use segments and services and channels value creation to market for our stakeholders 4 - Drilling Tools Operators Employees At year-end Headcount increased in the year, as demand in the US accelerated.
2,772 See page 32 Shareholders Dividends declared In 2018, the Group recommenced dividend distributions.
9.0 cents See page 5 Intervention Tools Service Companies Customers and Suppliers For the full year Oil service groups remain our primary route to market at 80% c. 80% of sales.
See page 40 Communities and Environment Intensity factor Our intensity factor Subsea Steel Mills and Other decreased in the year due to more efficient 38.6 facility utilisation.
kg CO $k 2 See page 37 Governments Tax paid With profits generated in the year, corporation taxes paid increased.
$2.6m See page 17 See pages 30 to 34 See pages 35 to 37 See pages 38 to 39 See page 40 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 29 Our business model continued Resources 1we use Financial Financial Hunting PLC is a Premium Listed public company quoted on the London Stock Exchange and, as such, adheres to the UKs highest standards of regulation and corporate Net cash Annualised 3-year TSR at 31.12.18 ending 31.12.18 governance, as published by the Financial Conduct Authority and Financial Reporting Council.
Equity shareholders receive returns in the form of dividends and $61.3m 16.7% through capital appreciation, which can be measured as total shareholder return.
Market capitalisation Net bank fees & interest at 31.12.18 paid year to 31.12.18 Financial capital is provided to the Group through equity invested by shareholders, cash reserves and debt facilities, provided by the Groups relationship banks.
The balance 0.8bn $2.0m of cash, debt and equity is managed with due regard to the respective cost of funds and their availability.
The Group has provided guidance on its approach to Intellectual Property dividend distributions, which is detailed on page 18.
Each dividend proposal will be assessed by the Board, based on the merits of actual and projected financial No.
of new patents performance of the Company for the relevant period.
granted in year Given the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry, the Board remains committed to maintaining a low level of gearing and committing sufficient resource to working 485 63 capital to maintain the Groups operational flexibility.
of new patents pending in the year The Group has a $160.0m committed multi-currency borrowing facility provided by four banks.
The facility is available until December 2022, with an option to increase 205 53 the facility size to $235.0m and lengthen the maturity date to December 2023.
The committed facilities have profit-based covenants linked to EBITDA net interest and net debt EBITDA ratios.
The facility also includes security arrangements provided over certain trade receivables, Operational inventories and specific properties, plant and equipment.
During the year, the Group was fully compliant with all of Operating sites Distribution centres its facility covenants.
Intellectual Property Following the market downturn between 2014 and 2017, 34 18 there is now a strong focus in the industry on technological improvement and process innovation, which can help Operating footprint Machines million sq ft deliver cost efficiencies for customers while maintaining or improving margins for suppliers.
The use of technology in our business illustrates the different ways we partner 2.9 1,188 with participants in the supply chain: Net book value of PPE % of ISO 9001 Hunting Proprietary Technology accredited facilities Developing our own proprietary technologies has been a strategic focus for the Group.
Through developing our technologies and proprietary know-how, we are well $360.2m 71 positioned to secure market share by protecting our intellectual property IP.
Our substantial IP portfolio provides us with a competitive advantage and allows us to enjoy better margins and more operational flexibility.
In 2018 we filed 53 new patent applications, with 63 new patents granted in the year, bringing the total number of fully-registered patents owned by the Group to 485.
30 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Jointly Developed Technology Some innovations involve collaborating with other partners within the industry.
Hunting continues to work with Management principles ExxonMobil to develop an autonomous perforating tool with on-board navigation.
This project has progressed well in 2018, with a new cutting tool targeted for launch to Our approach to managing the Groups operations customers in 2019 based on this technology.
is based on four core principles: Third-Party Technology In some cases, we make use of third-party proprietary Develop Our People technologies in our operations.
For certain product lines People are at the heart of our business.
Our broad we are engaged as a specialist manufacturer using our product portfolio demands experienced machining customers IP.
In other areas we license technologies from and production engineers across our many third parties, such as non-Hunting thread forms for OCTG.
Operational We have an established global network of operating sites and distribution centres located close to our customers Empower Our Business Units and within the main global oil and gas producing regions The oil and gas industry is a fast-paced sector where see page 2. product requirements and customer demands can operate on short lead-times.
Our business leaders Over the years, we have continued to refine our operating are empowered to react quickly to local market and manufacturing processes, established a highly conditions as and when opportunities arise.
specialised workforce and built considerable know-how to enable our business to evolve and meet changing customer needs.
Apply Unified Operating Standards Our operating sites are used for the manufacture, rental, and Procedures trading and distribution of products.
The manufacture of Demanding health, safety and quality policies goods and the provision of related manufacturing services are developed centrally and then applied locally.
is, by far, the main source of income for the Group.
We continually monitor and raise our operating standards.
The bulk of our manufacturing occurs in high-end specialist facilities utilising sophisticated CNC machines.
In Huntings rental businesses, it is critical that an Maintain a Strong Governance Framework appropriate range of equipment is stored and maintained.
The Groups senior managers and their teams operate Generally this must be configured to meet specific within a tight framework of controls, monitored and customer requirements.
directed at both a regional and central level but ultimately under the direction of the Board.
In certain product lines, particularly OCTG, Hunting holds inventory to support our customers specific requirements and to take advantage of particular market opportunities.
Our distribution centres are primarily used in the Hunting Titan, Intervention Tools and Drilling Tools business groups, where close proximity to drilling operations is important.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 31 Our business model continued Resources 1we use Employees Employees Huntings employees are key in fulfilling the Groups strategic objectives.
Employees year-end Total remuneration Huntings reputation, which has been built over many years, is underpinned by our highly skilled workforce.
2,772 $254.5m At 31 December 2018, the Group had 2,772 employees 2017 2,610 across its global operations.
As US onshore 2017 2,610 2017 $215.3m activity levels continued to improve during the year, those businesses addressing this market continued to hire new staff to meet demand.
Elsewhere within the Group, controls over recruitment remain in place.
Responsibility for our employees lies with local management, to enable local cultural differences to be taken into account, with all businesses complying with the Groups ethical employment and human rights policies as published in the Hunting PLC Code of Conduct located at www.
The Group is committed to training and developing all employees, which includes health and safety training, professional development and general career development initiatives.
In February 2018, Hunting rolled out a Group-wide Code of Conduct e-learning training programme for employees, to ensure awareness of our published ethics-focused policies.
The programme incorporates anti-bribery and corruption, modern slavery, fraud and tax modules to ensure our employees understand their responsibilities on joining the Group.
Hunting targets full compliance with all relevant regional laws covering employment and minimum wage legislation.
As a responsible employer, full and fair consideration is given to applications for positions from disabled persons.
The Groups ethics policies support equal employment opportunities across all of Huntings operations.
The Groups gender diversity profile for 2018 is detailed on page 64.
Employees are offered benefits on joining the Group, including healthcare cover, post-retirement benefits and, in certain instances, when Group outperformance in terms of operational or financial targets has been delivered, participation in bonus arrangements.
Employees are encouraged to further their development and network of contacts within the global energy industry by membership of industry groups.
In 2018, the following organisations were supported by Huntings employees: American Petroleum Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Intervention and Coiled Tubing Association.
The Board of Hunting has established procedures in place Employees receive regular HSE training whereby employees can raise concerns in confidence, by with programmes in place at all the contacting the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The Group also uses an independent whistleblowing service operated by SafeCall.
Contact information for both these lines of reporting are published on staff noticeboards across the Groups facilities and within the Groups magazine published twice yearly the Hunting Review and available to all employees.
32 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Stakeholder Relationships Number of shareholders 1,516 2017 1,618 Stakeholder Relationships A number of our research and development programmes While the consideration of stakeholders, including are implemented in collaboration with our customers to employees, customers, suppliers, governments and the ensure industry-leading technology is developed by the environment is a statutory duty of the Directors, the Group.
These programmes follow the stringent quality and Hunting Board believe it is good business practice to safety certifications implemented by governments but also nurture strong relationships with all participants, as it meet our customers exacting demands.
As new promotes the Groups standing in the industry, leads to customers or suppliers are considered by the Group, better growth opportunities and develops benefits for all.
know-your-customer forms, credit and sanction checks Hunting constantly evaluates ways to strengthen links with and end-user due diligence is undertaken to ensure investors, employees, customers, suppliers, governments Hunting complies with international trading laws and and the communities in which its businesses operate.
Further, most new customers and suppliers are sent key ethics documents that outline Huntings Board Oversight strong stance on ethical business dealings.
For more The Hunting Board receives regular feedback from the information on our customers and channels to market see Chief Executive on relationships with key customers and page 40.
Our entertainment and hospitality policies ensure suppliers at each Board meeting.
A Health, Safety and our business decisions are completed on an arms-length Environment report is also submitted to each Board basis, with client entertaining closely monitored and meeting.
Further, shareholder feedback is regularly proportionate.
considered as reports from the Head of Investor Relations and the Companys brokers are discussed at most Board Governments meetings.
Through the work of the Audit Committee, Hunting is committed to developing good relationships Huntings communication with customers and suppliers with appropriate bodies within the governments of the on the Groups ethical policies are monitored.
Further, new countries in which we operate.
Certain customers and stakeholder engagement proposals are being considered suppliers of the Group are state-owned, therefore by the Board.
monitoring procedures for interaction with Public Officials are in place.
Where appropriate, Huntings business units Shareholders participate in government-supported groups and Communication with investors is a core activity of the think-tanks.
Hunting Titan regularly supports or has Board, with a structured investor relations programme in membership of groups that develop regulations on place.
The executive Directors meet existing or potential products used for hydraulic fracturing, particularly with investors to explain our strategy and plans for future regard to the handling of explosives.
In line with Group growth.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director policy, Hunting prohibits any form of political donations also meet investors annually to discuss strategy and to be made.
In 2018, the Group issued its Payments to governance, with feedback being provided to the Board.
Governments statement in compliance with legislation Further, the Head of Investor Relations attends a number enacted in the UK.
Further, Hunting is a signatory to the of investor conferences and individual investor meetings UKs Prompt Payment Code.
In compliance with UK throughout the year, as part of the annual programme legislation, the Groups Tax Strategy is available on the of work.
The Company uses Stock Exchange Companys website at www.
com, and commits announcements, the annual and half-year reports, the Group and its subsidiaries to acting with integrity and webcasts and the Annual General Meeting to transparency in all tax matters relating to the countries in communicate and meet with shareholders.
Customers and Suppliers Communities Huntings approach to its customers and suppliers is Hunting operates in 11 countries and is committed to based on honesty and transparency, to provide best-inbeing a responsible corporate citizen.
Each business class products and services delivered through a rigorous unit across the Group is encouraged to promote good quality assurance programme.
The Groups policies community relations and, where appropriate, to support support a strong culture of building close client causes including local sponsorships and communal relationships, which are based on our reputation of events.
Many of these initiatives are highlighted in the industry-leading service and delivery and our drive to Hunting Review, the Companys corporate magazine understand the needs of each customer and supplier to published twice a year.
ensure absolute client satisfaction is achieved.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 33 Our business model continued Resources 1we use Stakeholder Relationships continued Supply Chain As a participant in the global oil and gas industry, Hunting Code of Conduct is part of a complex supply chain of customers and The Groups Code of Conduct is the basis of its suppliers, whereby certain partners can also be commitment to stakeholders.
Huntings policies on competitors if there is overlap in the product and service anti-bribery and corruption, ethical employment, offering.
This necessitates appropriate due diligence to responsible business partnerships and proportionate ensure we understand the nature of each commercial client entertaining are key commercial principles.
It also requires appropriate employee training Code of Conduct is sent to the Groups major customers and third-party communication of our ethical policies, to and suppliers to promote our values within our known ensure all our partners understand the high standards supply chain.
Huntings policies on human rights and its expected by the Group.
A number of our customers are approach to the issues of modern slavery and trafficking state-owned enterprises and additional monitoring continue to be enhanced, to ensure our stance on procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the responsible corporate behaviour is shared with our UKs Bribery Act.
Every two years, each business unit within the Group sends to key customers and suppliers a summary of our modern slavery and human trafficking policies, along with our Code of Conduct, to ensure Huntings clear stance on this subject is communicated.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC In line with the Groups ABC Policy, each business unit within the Group completes a twice-yearly ABC risk assessment, which is consolidated and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, the internal audit function reviews this assessment and provides feedback to the Committee on this risk profile.
Mitigating controls are in place to ensure each business seeks approval for a new commercial relationship, which may increase the Groups ABC risk.
In addition to these assessments, all high value entertainment is monitored, both locally and centrally, to ensure the Company is not seen to be unduly influencing a partner, with senior management and Board approvals required for all significant expenditures.
All employees are made aware of the Groups ABC policies through its Code of Conduct training course, which is completed on induction to the Group, together with periodic updates.
Perforating Sand 1 2 gun filters production being at Pampa.
H-1 Perforating Systems in Pampa, Texas, are The same rigorous assurance regime applies to the subject to quality assurance checks, throughout the fabrication of Cyclone Wellhead Desanders at the manufacturing cycle.
Velsen Noord facility in the Netherlands.
34 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our operating 2 segments Hunting reports its performance based on its key Europe geographic operating regions.
Hunting Titan, as a large, The segment derives its revenue primarily from the supply separate business group is reported as a stand-alone of OCTG and Intervention Tools to operators in the North segment.
A description of each segment is noted below.
The Group has operations in the UK, Netherlands and Norway.
Hunting Titan Hunting Titan manufactures and distributes perforating Asia Pacific products and accessories.
The segments products Revenue from the Asia Pacific segment is primarily from include the H-1 Perforating System and the EQUAfrac the manufacture of Premium Connections and OCTG shaped charge technology.
The business has four supply.
Manufacturing is located in China, Indonesia and manufacturing facilities in the US and a facility in Mexico, Singapore.
The facility in China also manufactures supported by 16 distribution centres, primarily located in perforating guns for Hunting Titan.
Middle East, Africa and Other US Revenue from the Middle East and Africa is generated The US businesses supply OCTG and Premium from the sale and rental of intervention tools across the Connections, Drilling Tools, Subsea equipment, region, with the operations also acting as sales hubs for Intervention Tools, Electronics and complex deep hole other products manufactured globally by the Group, drilling and precision machining services for the US and including OCTG and Perforating Systems.
The US segment has 15 operating facilities mainly located in Texas and Louisiana.
In 2019, the segment will be integrated into the Europe segment, following an internal restructuring.
Canada Huntings Canadian business manufactures Premium Exploration and Production Connections and accessories for oil and gas operators in The Exploration and Production business comprises the Canada, often focused on heavy oil plays, which require Groups exploration and production activities in the specialist tubing technologies.
Canada also manufactures Southern US and offshore Gulf of Mexico.
The segment is perforating guns for Hunting Titan.
being wound down, with no further investment planned.
OCTG 3 manufacturing in the US.
A new range of TEC-LOCK connections led to strong growth in sales to the US onshore market.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 35 Our business model continued Our operating 2 segments Health and Safety Health and Safety Across all of its global operations, the Group is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards of safety for its employees, customers, suppliers and the public.
Incident rate OSHA method Hunting has a proven culture of aiming for best practice and employs rigorous health and safety practices.
Health 1.49 and safety policies include: 2017 0.89 Regular audit and maintenance reviews of facilities: Appropriate training and education of all staff: Regular reporting to Board level: Seeking accreditation and aligning long-standing Incident rate internal programmes with internationally recognised standards: and Publication of the Group policy on health, safety and environmental matters on the Companys website at 2018 1.49 www.
2017 0.89 Huntings Director of Health, Safety and Environment HSE reports directly to the Chief Executive and a report 2016 1.15 is considered by the Board at each meeting.
The Groups target is to achieve zero recordable incidents.
Each local business is required to develop tailored policies to suit their environment.
These incorporate the Groups approach to putting safety first and, at a minimum, to Quality and Operational Excellence comply with local regulatory requirements.
Training is given to employees throughout the Group.
Internal manufacturing reject rate During the year, there were no fatalities across the Groups operations, with 46 recordable incidents 2017 24.
The incident rate, as calculated from guidance issued by the 0.2% Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA in the US, was 1.49 compared to 0.89 in 2017.
This incident 2017 0.3% rate reflects a 67% year-on-year increase, as new employees were hired and trained in addition to the number of hours worked increasing by 17% to 6.3m hours 2017 5.4m hours.
The industry average incident rate in Quality assurance internal manufacturing reject 2018 was 4.0 2017 3.6. rate % Quality The Group is committed to enhancing its production 2018 and operational quality, with a number of facilities being 0.2 certified ISO 9001 quality, ISO 14001 environment and ISO 18001 health and safety compliant, indicating that 2017 0.3 globally recognised standards and systems are in place.
2016 0.6 More facilities across the Group are working towards these ISO accreditations, continuing the Groups commitment to monitor and reduce the environmental impact of its operations and improving HSE standards.
Facilities with ISO 9001 accreditation % Operational and production excellence is a key driver of our relationship with customers.
Quality assurance for 2018 each component manufactured is a key differentiator in 71 our drive to be an industry-leading provider of critical components and measurement tools.
In 2018, the Group 2017 64 continued its programme to introduce lean manufacturing processes into global operations.
This resulted in 2016 60 efficiency gains in a number of key business units.
The internal manufacturing reject rate in 2018 was 0.2% 2017 0.3%.
36 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Environment Environmental and Waste Management Data Hunting is committed to protecting the environment, by developing manufacturing procedures that minimise the Groups impact on the environment and communities in Carbon dioxide emissions which we operate.
Huntings environment policy is located at www.
35,171 tonnes equivalent 2017 31,603 tonnes equivalent New facilities take into account environmental considerations, including storm and flooding protection, while utilising energy efficient materials, together with Facilities with recycling programmes in place % waste recycling and management initiatives.
The Group has active recycling programmes at the Metal 96 majority of its facilities for waste materials, including metal, plastics and wood.
Nearly all manufacturing facilities Wood 42 maintain at least one recycling programme, with the accompanying chart noting the adherence of the Groups Plastics facilities to these three core material recycling 28 programmes.
To monitor the impact of Huntings operations on the GHG emissions tonnes CO equivalent Intensity 2 environment, and in compliance with UK Company Law, factor kg CO $k revenue 2 the Group collates greenhouse gas GHG data in accordance with the principles of the Kyoto Protocol.
30 60 Huntings 2018 Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as defined by reporting guidelines published by DEFRA in the UK and 25 50 the International Energy Agency, have been collected and are reported in the accompanying chart.
20 40 Scope 1 and 2 emissions in 2018 totalled 35,171 tonnes 15 30 2017 31,603 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
The increase in the Groups emissions between 2017 and 2018 10 20 is due to higher activity levels, particularly within the Groups US businesses, with Scope 2 electricity usage 5 10 increasing as additional shifts were added by our busier operating units.
In the year, the Group consumed 0 0 54.7 GWh of electricity 2017 45.2 GWh.
2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Scope 2 Intensity factor The Groups intensity factor, based on total carbon dioxide emissions divided by Group revenue in 2018, was 38.6 kg $k of revenue, compared to 43.6 kg $k of revenue in 2017.
Global electricity consumption GWh Water usage in the year was 221k cubic metres compared to 216k cubic metres in 2017.
2018 54.7 2017 45.2 2016 42.7 UK electricity consumption GWh 2018 1.9 2017 1.4 2016 1.8 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 37 Our business model continued Our products 3and services Huntings six major product groups Oil Country Tubular Perforating Advanced Drilling Tools Intervention Tools Subsea Goods OCTG Systems Manufacturing Operating Basis Manufacturing, trading Manufacturing Manufacturing Equipment rental, Manufacturing, equipment Manufacturing trading rental and trading OCTG are steel alloy products and Hunting Titan manufactures Advanced Manufacturing includes Rental of a large portfolio of A range of downhole intervention Produces high quality products Overview comprise casing and tubing used perforating systems, energetics, the Hunting Dearborn business, downhole tools, including mud tools including slickline tools, e-line and solutions for the global in the construction and completion firing systems and logging tools.
which carries out deep hole drilling motors, non-magnetic drill collars, tools, mechanical plant, coiled subsea industry covering of the wellbore.
Hunting machines Products are mainly used in the and precision machining of vibration dampeners, reamers and tubing and pressure control hydraulic couplings, chemical threads to connect OCTG using completion phase of a well.
The complex MWD LWD and formation hole openers.
This business is capital injection systems, specialty flush or semi-flush joints and can production, storage and evaluation tool components, and to the customers specifications.
intensive and results are dependent valves and weldment services.
manufacture premium and distribution of energetics is highly the Hunting Electronics business, This business is capital intensive on asset utilisation and rental rates.
semi-premium connections and regulated and there are significant which manufactures printed circuit and results are dependent on fleet accessories using our own barriers for new entrants to the boards capable of operating in utilisation and rental rates.
In technologies such as SEALmarket.
The business mainly extreme conditions.
These limited instances, rental equipment LOCK, WEDGE-LOCK and manufactures to stock and hence businesses work collaboratively is sold outright.
We are licensed to uses a wide distribution network.
with customers implementing their apply a variety of third-party Some manufacturing is done to designs to their specifications.
thread forms and generic API order, sourced from international threads.
We source OCTG products telesales.
from a significant number of major global steel producers and have strong, long-term relationships in the US, Europe and Asia.
Hunting trades pipe, which is a lower margin activity, to help support customer relationships.
Hunting is one of the largest Market-leading position in the US.
Hunting Dearborn is a world leader Leaders in progressive cavity, Hunting offers a comprehensive For more than 30 years, a Differentiators independent providers of OCTG Strong portfolio of patented and in the deep drilling of high grade, positive displacement mud motors.
range of tools, including innovative provider of high quality metal-toconnection technology, including unpatented technology.
metal sealing hydraulic coupling premium connections.
Group, Hunting has the ability to solutions to operate in the produce fully integrated advanced harshest environments with a downhole tools and equipment, strong, long-term patent base.
manufactured, assembled and tested to the customers specifications using its proprietary know-how.
Hunting has extensive machining Manufacturing centres in the US, US.
Global Operating Presence capacity in the US, Canada, Europe Canada, Mexico and China.
Our business activities and Asia Pacific.
Distribution centres in the US, Pages 35 to 40.
New products Broadened New capacity Expansion of Growth Non-oil and gas business Growth Further implementation New products Increased sales New products Continued Related Strategic Focus Areas the WEDGE-LOCK and production facilities at Pampa and opportunities increased within of mud-lube motors across fleet, of Ezi-Shear valve.
development of soft metal seal Our business strategy SEAL-LOCK XD premium Milford in the US has commenced, naval, aerospace and space leading to lower refurbishment product line for onshore drilling Pages 42 and 43. connection range and with completion targeted for sectors.
Insourcing of production costs and improved levels of markets.
introduced the semi-premium Q2 2019. of Hunting Titan firing switches.
MWD LWD tool replacement Cost control Three distribution programmes with key oil and gas Cost control Disposal of Cape centres closed in North America.
customers also increased in the Town facility and closure of year, with new interest in Huntings Mombasa facility.
New products H-2 Perforating integrated tool manufacturing System launched in February 2019. capability.
Commodity prices, Shale drilling, Commodity prices, Shale drilling.
Commodity prices, Commodity prices, Shale drilling, Commodity prices, Competition.
Commodity prices, Related Principal Risks Competition, Product quality.
More information on risk management Pages 44 to 52.
38 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Huntings six major product groups Oil Country Tubular Perforating Advanced Drilling Tools Intervention Tools Subsea Goods OCTG Systems Manufacturing Operating Basis Manufacturing, trading Manufacturing Manufacturing Equipment rental, Manufacturing, equipment Manufacturing trading rental and trading OCTG are steel alloy products and Hunting Titan manufactures Advanced Manufacturing includes Rental of a large portfolio of A range of downhole intervention Produces high quality products Overview comprise casing and tubing used perforating systems, energetics, the Hunting Dearborn business, downhole tools, including mud tools including slickline tools, e-line and solutions for the global in the construction and completion firing systems and logging tools.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 39 Our business model continued Our customers and 4channels to market Huntings customer groupings and channels to market Operators Service Companies Steel Mills and Other Operators are the end Our primary route to market Steel mills are key suppliers consumers of our products is via other service providers, to our business, however, in and related services.
These which generate c. 80% of our some circumstances we can include National Oil Companies, revenue.
These include 1st tier perform threading services for International Oil Companies and service companies who can them or supply OCTG products.
Approximately provide project management Other sales include oil and gas 15% of our sales are made services to the operators.
Key related sales through agents directly to operators.
customers include Halliburton, or intermediaries, together Baker Hughes, Schlumberger with non-oil and gas sector and Weatherford.
sales made by our Trenchless, Dearborn and Electronics operations.
Split of Group revenue Split of Group revenue Split of Group revenue C. 15% C. 80% C. 5% Our top ten customers represent Our largest customer represents c. 41% of revenue c. 13% of revenue 40 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Page heading Quality assurance procedures are central to our manufacturing processes and supports Huntings reputation across the oil and gas industry.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 41
