At the heart of building Driving sustainable performance.
We will continually develop new organisational capabilities to drive world-class performance across our operations.
We will do this through: Health and safety Operational excellence Sustainability Structure and capability Link to relevant market trends: 1, 2 02 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Ibstock Bricks new Eclipse Factory open day to local community on Saturday, 22 September 2018.
03 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 At the heart of building 04 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Market led innovation.
Our product range is unrivalled in terms of breadth and depth, but as the market leader, we need to be at the forefront of innovation to support the changing needs of the built environment and to maximise value.
We will achieve this by focusing on: Optimising supply chain Commercial excellence Innovation and product development Link to relevant market trends: 1, 2 Location: Courtyard House, London.
Product: Ibstock Staffordshire Slate Blue Smooth bricks and Umbra Sawtooth in Staffordshire Slate Blue Smooth.
05 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 At the heart of building Selective growth.
Having simplified our Group structure and fide-leveraged our balance sheet, we are well-positioned to invest to deliver long-term growth.
Our approach to growth continues with the following priorities: Portfolio management Organic growth M&A Link to relevant market trends: 1, 2 06 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Ibstock Bricks new Eclipse Factory open day to local community on Saturday, 22 September 2018.
07 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 08 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Looking forward Commercial excellence to support value growth.
Addressing market industry trends Improving market segmentation Focusing in commercial excellence Private housing development Digitalisation Price and margin management Commercial specification projects Skills Product range management Social housing New construction techniques Sales excellence Retail Sustainability footprint Customer experience management Segmented offers creating more value Differentiation and the right capabilities Combining insights and foresights, through a better understanding of the to create and capture value moving leveraging trends for creating customers needs.
from a product to a solutions approach.
09 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
