7. : y L b o d s t e t r i u m s e a a e c m c i d s e i n e t c s n a m r Our strategy Our strategy is to optimise Building the strategy During 2018 we reviewed our portfolio and took the decision to and grow our core business in dispose of our US subsidiary, Glen-Gery, and exit the US market.
We enter 2019 with a strong core business focused on the UK the UK, to deliver sustainable and a strong balance sheet with the capacity to invest and deliver long-term growth.
performance and value Our three strategic pillars: creation over the long term.
10, 11 We will continually develop our organisational structure and Link to market trends capabilities to ensure we drive 1, 2 world-class performance in our operations, focusing particularly Link to KPIs on manufacturing, health and safety 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and sustainability of our business.
We have built market-leading Our three strategic priorities drive performance positions in both our brick and and create value for all our stakeholders.
concrete businesses over many years, with strong brands and diverse product portfolios.
It is important that we continue to invest and optimise to maintain this positioning.
Sustainable performance Link to risk Market led innovation 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11 Our product range is unrivalled Our fnancial in terms of breadth and depth but 1 KPIs are: Link to market trends as the market leader, we need to 1.
Adjusted EBITDA be at the forefront in innovation as 3.
Net debt to the market evolves.
We will focus Link to KPIs Adjusted EBITDA on new product development 1, 2, 5, 6, 8 4.
Cash flow before major projects and optimising our supply chain 5.
ROCE to support our customers and 6.
Adjusted EPS maintain our position.
2: Market led 3: Selective innovation growth The construction industry continues to evolve, as our customers look to control construction costs and drive efficiency in the build process.
It is important that we meet the needs of our customers and support them to achieve their aims.
Our strategic priorities Link to risk Selective growth are supported by: 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 With a strong balance sheet we Governance that is aligned to performance have the capacity to invest in both and our culture that is managed and Link to market trends organic enhancement projects in 1, 2 maintained by the Board.
our clay brick business and execute M&A opportunities where we see Link to KPIs a strategic fit and opportunity to 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 Non-fnancial KPIs create value.
Our core business provides a solid platform for future growth, with strong brands, customer relationships and established routes to market.
We can expand this platform to deliver long-term growth and value creation.
1 Alternative performance measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
22 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 o f r e p 8 l. a i N c e n t a P n r f o - m n o o t n e r r u S c O o r e Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Sustain Sustainable performance Optimising our core business to ensure we take care of our people and make the most of our assets.
We continuously look to simplify our business, improve our performance and operate in a sustainable manner.
23 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our strategy continued Excel Commercial excellence Maximising opportunities from our core business to create value, working more closely with our customers, focusing commercial excellence, product innovation and optimising our supply chain.
Customer Business profiling and insight and segmentation analysis Continuous improvement to Pricing Strategic discipline and marketing margin initiatives benefits Product differentiation Location: Beak Street, London.
Product: Bespoke blend of glazed bricks.
24 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Grow Selective growth: Reviewing our portfolio to focus on high return businesses with leading market positions.
We will invest in organic growth and enhancement projects in our clay brick business and review potential M&A opportunities where there is a strategic fit with our existing businesses.
Find out more about our core markets Location: The Music Box, London pages 18 and 19.
Product: White gloss WT10 glazed bricks 25 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
