Viability statement and Going concern Viability statement Link to principal risk and Background Scenario uncertainty pages 42 to 47 The Directors have undertaken a comprehensive assessment of the An economic downturn Groups viability as a business rigorously assessing its markets, the The impact of a severe and prolonged Economic conditions strength of its business model and the potential risks that could impact reduction in demand for its products Government action its ongoing success.
This process involved carefully reviewing and on the basis of reduced house building and policy assessing extensive evidence, from both internal and external sources, activity or unexpected changes to to evaluate the prospects for the Group over a longer-term horizon.
Government policy resulting in Assessment reduced volume of product sold, Managements viability exercise, reviewed by the Audit Committee as well as a benign environment of on behalf of the Board, has informed the Directors assessment prolonged price stagnation on sales.
of the longer-term viability of the business, as part of the year-end Production cost increases review for the preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts, A situation whereby the cost of Input costs has robustly assessed the business model, strategy, market conditions, production increases as a result of Government business planning, risks and the liquidity and solvency of the Group.
input cost rises across the Group or regulation and The Group has leading positions within the markets in which it additional regulatory costs imposing standards relating operates, as noted on pages 18 and 19, and its strategy see page 22 additional expenditure within the to the manufacture is aimed at continuing to strengthen its position in those markets and production process, which the Group and use of building create value for its shareholders.
is unable to pass on to its customers.
products The Groups operations see pages 1 to 11 expose it to a number Disruption in business activities of risks and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are noted The impact of an event, such as Business disruption on pages 42 to 47.
The Directors continually review those risks and prolonged bad weather, a cyber-attack Cyber security determine the appropriate controls and further actions.
They have or other unanticipated event, which further reviewed the impact within the context of the Groups prevents production at one or more viability.
The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk of the Groups facilities and prevents and foreign exchange rate risk as described on page 47. customer demand being met.
Lookout period Reputational damage In determining the lookout period to assess the prospects of the Group, the Directors decided that three years was the appropriate A scenario whereby the Groups Customer relationships period over which to assess longer-term viability.
The nature of the reputation is damaged, as a result and reputation building products industry is that it is particularly sensitive to the level of customer relationship breakdown, Recruitment of economic activity, which is influenced by several factors outside of significant employee disengagement and retention the Groups control, including demographic trends, the state of the or product quality issues, resulting of key personnel housing market, mortgage availability, mortgage interest rates and in a sudden reduction in sales activity.
Product quality changes in household income, inflation and Government policy.
Conclusion Based on the evidence available, the Directors believe that it In summary, the Directors reasonably expect, based on the evidence is reasonable to expect continued growth, and consider that a available, that the Group will continue in operation and meet its three-year period provides the most appropriate horizon over which liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
The Directors have also considered the financing the Group has in place, which is agreed for a period in excess of Going concern the lookout period used.
Refinancing is therefore not considered The Groups business activities, together with the factors a significant factor in this current assessment, but debt leverage likely to affect its future development, performance and position, compliance and the Groups cash requirements are monitored are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56.
The financial on a continuous basis.
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Stress testing borrowing facilities, are described in the Financial Review on During the challenging market conditions of the last major recession, pages 52 to 55.
In addition, Note 23 to the Group consolidated the Group performed well, remaining cash positive and implementing financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and a number of mitigating actions that allowed it to remain viable.
Such processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management mitigating actions remain available to the Directors today.
The Groups objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: viability modelling has stress tested the budget in the following and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group scenarios both individually and in combination: regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
Assumptions In determining the viability of the Group, the Board made the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable following assumptions: expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period The economic climate in which the Group operates remains in line of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial with a broad consensus of external forecasts: statements.
The Board has concluded that the Going Concern There is no material change in the legal and regulatory frameworks basis of accounting of its financial statements is appropriate.
with which the Group complies: There are no material changes in construction methods used in the markets in which the Group operates: The Groups risk mitigation strategies continue to be effective: and The Groups past record of successfully mitigating significant construction industry declines can be replicated.
56 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance 58 Chairmans Introduction 60 Board statements 61 Application of the Main Principles of the Code 65 Leadership 68 Board of Directors 70 Effectiveness 71 Nomination Committee Report 73 Accountability 75 Audit Committee Report 81 D irectors Remuneration Report 108 D irectors Report 110 Statement of Directors responsibilities 111 Independent auditors report Location: Commercial Road, Bournemouth.
Product: Cast stone in bath colour.
57 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
