H i g h l y e x p e r i e n c e d m a n a g e m e n t t e a m G r o w i n g c a p a c s: it y r o t a i t n e r Our business model The Group is a leading Inputs People, plants and factories, long-term relationships, manufacturer of a diversified raw materials and manufactured materials range of clay and concrete building products, with operations across the UK.
How we create value The Directors believe that the Groups market-leading businesses place it in a strong position to benefit from the expected demand growth in the UK.
Extraction Clay and shale used in our brick production process is sourced from clay quarries that the Group operates on land that it owns or leases under long-term agreements.
The quarries are in the vicinity of our brick manufacturing plants providing security of supply of the key raw material used in brick manufacture.
Extraction Procurement The Group is a major customer for a number of its key third party suppliers, which allows efficient purchasing and transportation, Distribution Procurement together with the establishment of long-term relationships.
Additionally, for the Groups concrete products, the main raw materials are bulky in nature and are locally sourced.
Natural gas and How we electricity costs represent the greatest input costs apart from labour.
create value The Group regularly reviews its energy costs and uses forward Customer Product service design purchasing contracts to increase pricing certainty when favourable compared to future price expectations in the open market.
Product design The Group continually seeks to improve the quality of its existing Technical Manufacturing support process products and also introduce new products through innovation and investment in new technology.
Its new product development programme works closely with customers and our sales team to identify opportunities for new products.
See pages 36 and 37 for examples of innovation during 2018.
Manufacturing process The Group has the largest brick production capacity in the UK and has a strategic footprint across the UK.
We also have the most modern and innovative concrete roof tile line in the UK and our concrete fence post manufacturing facilities provide us with a market-leading position.
The Group manufactures bricks through two main processes: wire cut and soft mud, which take their names from the processes to create them.
With wire cut bricks, clay is continuously extruded to a required size and shape, before cutting by wire into individual bricks.
These are then dried before firing in a kiln.
Soft mud bricks Value is created for: are made by placing a mix of clay and water into individual moulds Shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers to create a brick shape, which is dried and then fired in a kiln after and communities.
The Groups concrete products are made from cement, sand, admixtures and pigments, which are mixed together.
In the case of a roof tile, the mix is extruded onto moving pallets and then cut to form individual tiles.
The cut tiles are cured in chambers, finish coated and dried.
The grey concrete products, such as fence posts, are made using a semi-dry or wet cast process.
The concrete is discharged from a machine hopper into a mould containing steel reinforcement bars with high frequency vibration used to compact the mixture and Our value creating activities are underpinned then demoulded by turning over the moulds before curing.
by our culture and values, market insight, our strategy and strong governance.
20 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 e f if d y e L k o n r g u - s O t a n d i n g c u s t o m e r r e l a ti o n s h i p s S c al e M a r k e t l e a d e r s h i p Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Technical support Outputs The Group seeks to differentiate itself as a manufacturer by Shareholders employing five architects and a Computer Aided Design office The Directors recognise the importance of rewarding our to assist specifiers and customers in their designs and efficient shareholders for their continued investment in the future of use of our products.
We view the risks to our dividend as intrinsically linked to the principal risks and uncertainties noted on pages 42 to 47, Customer service primarily those impacting the wider macroeconomic environment Ibstock sells its products to a diverse group of customers in the and the cyclical nature of the industry for building products.
It is our UK construction industry.
Each business has its own sales team that objective to set out a clear dividend policy to enable stakeholders is aligned by customer group and region in order to focus on key to assess both the case for investment and stewardship in holding decision-makers and customers.
This is monitored through extensive the Board to account.
Our dividend policy is set out within Note 23 and regular customer satisfaction surveys.
Distribution Employees The Groups 38 principal manufacturing locations across the UK The Group employs a large number of people across its operations are strategically located close to main transportation links to facilitate and as described in the Resources and relationships section on onward distribution.
The Group outsources the majority of its pages 32 to 41, and the development and progression of our haulage to two contractors.
employees is seen as key to the Groups long-term success.
Our key differentiators Alongside the Groups strategic priority of providing a safe and Market leadership healthy working environment, the Directors believe that the Our market-leading businesses enable us to benefit from the expected employee share ownership encouraged by the Share Incentive and growth in demand in the UK.
Save As You Earn programmes and supported by strong corporate governance, are further ways in which value flows to the Groups Scale employee stakeholders.
We have over 80 million tonnes of consented clay reserves and in excess of 140 million tonnes of clay resources, providing good Customers support for production capacity of 0.9 billion bricks per annum Builders merchants, housebuilders, specialist brick distributors, across 24 clay plants.
contractors and installers are the five main customer groups for the Groups clay and concrete products in the UK.
These customers Long-standing customer relationships are not always the same as the individuals and organisations that Our customer focus is based on quality, service and consistency are making the buying decisions for the Groups products.
In many and our service-led ethos is one of the key drivers in the growth in cases, the preference of the end users or their specifier dictates our market share in bricks over the past 10 years and many of our the choice of product rather than the intermediary that actually long-standing customer relationships have lasted over 40 years.
purchases the product from the Group.
The unrivalled choice of Growing capacity products available within the Groups range of clay bricks provide We are investing in the latest technology to increase capacity these customers with the widest selection from which to choose.
and to meet the growing market demands.
As a full-range supplier, our concrete businesses provide customers with a broad product set upon which to base their buying decisions.
Highly experienced management team Our management team has extensive experience in the building Suppliers products industry.
Ibstock aims to forge long-term relationships with its key suppliers, and conduct business in a fair, open and transparent way.
Our Group procurement team have designed policies and procedures with which our suppliers and teams are required to comply.
These are all aimed at ensuring we work safely, equitably and in the best interests of both parties, as well as the Groups other stakeholders.
These policies and procedures are covered in more detail on pages 37 and 38.
Communities and environment In addition to the employment provided by, and taxation contributed by, the Group, we interact directly with the communities within which we operate.
Our Resources and relationships section on pages 32 to 41, together with the Groups Environmental Report, set out a number of examples of this interaction as the Group aims to be a good neighbour and contribute to those communities.
Ibstock is a proud member of Business in the Community.
Relevant links: Our markets, pages 18 and 19.
Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 42 to 47.
21 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
