Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Changes to the regulatory landscape in The Directors assessment of the Groups GOING CONCERN the UK and EU, which are the Groups viability uses a four-year forecasting The Directors have prepared the Financial major markets, come into effect early this period, as this is the length of time over Statements on a going concern basis, financial year, and although the Group which the Board strategically assesses which requires them to have a reasonable has undertaken extensive modelling and the business: it is the longest period expectation that the Group has adequate analysis in order to prepare the financial of time the Board typically looks at resources to continue in operational forecasts, there is a range of potential in its assessment of the success of existence for the foreseeable future.
The terms of the UKs exit investments: and it is the period over from the EU also remain uncertain, and which the Group reviews its regulatory The Directors have reviewed the Groups the assumptions the Group has made capital resources and requirements.
processes for managing the financial with respect to the impact of Brexit may risks to which they are exposed, their be incorrect.
The Group is planning The first year of the planning period available liquidity, their regulatory investments in new countries and in new has a greater degree of certainty and is, capital position and their annual products that may be less successful therefore, used to set detailed financial budget.
As a result of this review, the than assumed in the financial forecasts.
It is also Directors are satisfied that the Group used by the Remuneration Committee has adequate resources to continue in The Directors are satisfied that these to set targets for the annual incentive operational existence for the foreseeable and other uncertainties have been scheme.
The further three-year period future.
For this reason, they continue assessed, and that the financial provides less certainty of outcome, but to adopt the going concern basis in forecasts reflect an appropriate provides a robust planning tool against preparing the Financial Statements.
balance of the potential outcomes.
which strategic decisions can be made.
These forecasts are also considered Overall, the Directors consider that when setting targets for the executive VIABILITY STATEMENT the Group is well placed to manage and senior management share plans.
The UK Corporate Governance Code its business risks successfully, having requires the Directors to make a taken into account the current The Directors review detailed stressstatement regarding the viability of the economic outlook, the consequences testing on the Groups assessment of its Group, including explaining how they of severe but plausible scenarios that liquidity and capital requirements based have assessed the prospects of the could impact the business, and the on these forecasts.
The Board regularly Group, the period of time over which they effectiveness of mitigating actions on conducts a robust assessment of the have made the assessment and why they the Groups profitability and liquidity.
principal risks facing the Group, including consider that period to be appropriate.
those that would threaten its business On the basis of these and other matters model, future performance, solvency and The Directors assess the longer-term considered and reviewed by the Board liquidity, and the potential consequences prospects of the Group through a of the crystallisation of these risks.
during the year, the Directors have review of its strategy and its business The Board reviews and challenges reasonable expectations that the Group development plans, the principal risks the ILAA and ICAAP, which are will be able to continue in operation and facing the Group as set out in the prepared annually by the Group.
These meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Risk Management section on pages assessments include the review of the four-year period ending 31 May 2022.
34 to 38, its medium-term financial impact of various scenarios, including forecasts, and assessing and stressreverse stress-testing to understand the testing its capital and liquidity position.
circumstances under which the Groups business model is no longer viable.
The Group has a forecasting and planning cycle consisting of a strategic With appropriate management actions, plan, an annual budget for the current the results of these scenarios and stress year and financial projections for a tests showed that the Group was resilient further three years.
The output from this to all severe, but plausible, scenarios, and business-planning process is used in the would be able to withstand the impact.
Groups capital and liquidity planning, and the most recent forecasts are for the four-year period ending May 2022.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39
