18 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic growth priorities Our strategic plan to accelerate growth is focused on four key growth priorities.
Capitalising on Improving significant organic operational growth opportunities performance Our priority is to capitalise on Our self-help Lean journey end-markets where we already is underpinned by the are, or have the potential to be, engagement of management in a leading position.
and employees at all levels.
Turn to page 20 Turn to page 22 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 19 Increasing investment Expanding our in New Product addressable markets Development through targeted acquisitions All three divisions are Beyond our existing business increasingly delivering on portfolio, we have the potential our promise to introduce great to expand through the careful new products and solutions for execution of value enhancing our customers, more quickly acquisitions.
and more effectively than ever before.
Turn to page 24 Turn to page 26 20 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic growth priorities Capitalising on significant growth opportunities The Group currently operates in a number of attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth.
Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position markets where we can grow and where there are significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
New facility Japan Strengthening our position in Capitalising on growing growing markets market demand Over the last four years IMI Critical Engineering has successfully repositioned its business.
In particular, IMI Precision Engineering is continuing to The global underfloor heating market is expected its global footprint has been realigned and today strengthen its presence in growth markets around to grow at a compound annual growth rate of the division has world-class manufacturing facilities the world.
During 2018 the division completed nearly 5% over the next five years, driven by in the heart of the industrys fastest growing the relocation of its plant in Noida near New Delhi a number of factors including increasing legislation markets.
Building on the success of its new facilities to a new purpose-built facility, nearby.
The new aimed at reducing carbon emissions.
IMI Hydronic in China, India and South Korea, in 2018 the division facility, which is three times the size of the old Engineerings product portfolio includes a range committed to relocating its existing factory in West plant provides a core low cost manufacturing of products that control underfloor heating Kobe, Japan to a new purpose-built facility near and engineering capability to Precision systems, including manifolds which incorporate Kobe Airport.
Aside from offering a much more Engineerings, already competitive Asian the divisions Automatic Flow Control AFC efficient layout, the new plant will focus on the operations.
Our New Delhi operations include sales technology.
This unique AFC technology ensures design and manufacture of large valves and and customer service, production, distribution and that the correct flow rates of water are delivered hydraulic actuating systems products that the a technical centre, and provides increased to each room thereby ensuring precise existing facility is not equipped to manufacture.
production capacity to meet the growing demand temperature control.
In the last 12 months the This investment will enhance IMI Critical for IMI Precision products in the Indian market.
division has won a number of significant contracts Engineerings offering in the attractive to supply its underfloor heating products and Petrochemical market in Japan.
technology to both new build and refurbishment projects across Europe.
In particular a number of municipal and social housing authorities across central Europe, including Austria & Germany, have installed IMI Hydronic Engineerings AFC technology solution to help save energy across their building stock.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 2 3 4 5 1 Precision Engineerings new Indian manufacturing facility in Noida, India.
2 IMI Critical Engineerings new Lean factory in Japan will support regional growth.
3 Hydronic Engineerings leading underfloor heating manifold, Dynacon Eclipse, not only helps to save energy in homes, but is also easy to install.
4 Cardboard engineering in action, with a scale replica of Precision Engineerings new Indian manufacturing facility.
5 Hydronic Engineerings underfloor heating solutions are providing comfort to home owners and tenants across Central Europe.
22 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic growth priorities Improving operational performance As we improve how our businesses operate we are better utilising capacity, enhancing our competitiveness, reducing working capital and generating cost savings by operating more efficiently.
By doing this, we are improving our service to customers.
We are well on our way in the self-help Lean journey, underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels and we remain absolutely confident that by embedding Lean across the whole of IMI we will improve our competitiveness and sustain our achievements.
Better operational Enhancing Bimbas Embedding the voice of the performance enhances operational performance customer in our operational customer offering processes We completed the acquisition of Bimba in Across the Group we have continued to optimise the IMI Hydronic Engineerings facilities in Olkusz January and shortly thereafter launched a Lean use of Obeya, the visual tool which facilitates project Poland, and Brezice, Slovenia were two of the implementation programme to begin the process management by bringing together multiple work first plants in the Group to achieve world-class of transforming the operational performance streams and encouraging collaborative working operational benchmark performance.
The divisions across Bimbas eight sites.
The IMI Remosa team in Italy is now using effective application of Lean within its production process started in March where Bimbas Obeya to manage its aftermarket business more facilities is now being extended across its sales operations achieved a 19% Lean score.
In particular, current and future field offices and distribution hubs to ensure that end of 2018, this score had improved significantly service workload, together with field engineering customer requirements are consistently delivered.
In particular the business accident capability and availability, is now clearly mapped to Additionally, the IMI Hydronic Engineering senior rates have fallen by 86% and more generally a ensure that the appropriate engineering service is operations team now meet regularly with sales continuous improvement culture is now becoming available when required.
As a result, the time taken teams and customers out in the field, to better embedded across the Bimba business.
Bimbas to identify and match the appropriate service understand their needs and collaborate on projects University Park site underwent an accelerated engineer to each job has reduced by 62% and to address any customer issues or opportunities transformation and improved their assessment service engineers, spares and tools are more which might arise.
One such project focussed score from 20% to 44% in under 10 months.
on improving our quality processes to drive down average response times and has reduced unresolved complaints by 85% in the final quarter of 2018.
74% 75% 78% Lean score up 50% Lean score up 42% Lean score up 41% from first assessment from first assessment from first assessment Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23 1 Individual valve quality check at Hydronic Engineerings plant in Ljung, Sweden.
2 IMI Remosas world-class Hydraulic Power Control Units enable remote monitoring to ensure optimised plant performance for our customers.
3 Bimbas IntelliSense is an industry 4.0 product that integrates directly into pneumatic systems, enabling predictive intelligence.
4 Five Hydronic Engineering sites now have a Lean score above 70%.
5 IMI Remosa has produced leaner designs enabling their products to deliver significant reliability and operational improvements.
1 2 3 4 5 24 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic growth priorities Increasing investment in New Product Development Over the course of the past five years, we have successfully embedded New Product Development systems and disciplines across the Group.
These systems and disciplines include a Group-wide advanced product quality planning process APQP, continuous competitor product teardowns, Value Engineering and an increased focus on transformational technologies.
All three divisions now have strong new product pipelines and are bringing new products and solutions to market quicker and more effectively than ever before.
Value Engineering delivering Industry 4.0 at the centre of Maintaining our position at competitive advantage New Product Development the forefront of innovation Value Engineering is a core component of the Digitisation is at the centre of IMI Precision In the last five years IMI Hydronic Engineering divisions New Product Development activities and, Engineerings New Product Development has launched numerous new products, many over the last two years, our enhanced skills and process where investment is being focused of which incorporate software that allows them capability in this area have significantly improved on product control and data monitoring.
to be digitally enabled and connected to other our competitiveness.
Despite challenging market This in essence, allows our products to be components and systems.
This software is conditions, since 2016 IMI Critical Engineering has used as integrated components in a customers developed by the divisions dedicated in-house won nearly half a billion pounds of new contracts connected application.
Electronic Research & Development team which through the application of Value Engineering tools focuses on creating solutions to satisfy customer During the year the division expanded its portfolio and processes.
On average, a 15% cost reduction demand and maintain IMI Hydronic Engineerings of high performance, platform and bespoke for our customers has been delivered.
Included in leading position at the forefront of innovation.
products which offer enhanced digital capability the divisions 2018 contract wins was an order for During the year the division continued to expand and connectivity.
New connected products include IMI Remosa to provide a package of products for its digital product portfolio.
In December we a range of electric actuators which are expected installation in a Spanish oil refinery which was extended our existing market leading TA-Slider to launch in Spring 2019 at Hannover Messe, being refurbished.
The product package included actuator range to include a number of new the world leading technology trade fair.
control systems, actuators and slide valves, which products suitable for smaller applications such operate together in extreme temperatures of up to Digital technology is providing a competitive as ceiling cooling.
These products control and shut down the dynamic in IMI Precisions commercial activities.
open and close valves to control the flow of TM flow of liquids and gases during the critical crude The divisions IMI Norgren Express App, which water in HVAC systems, connect to building oil to liquid fuels conversion process.
Using Value enables customers to find and buy products management systems and gather large amounts Engineering, IMI Remosa was able to re-develop quickly and easily using their smartphone, of data ultimately used to drive energy and its products which significantly reduced welding is now available worldwide.
This efficient and cost efficiencies.
and other manufacturing costs and created effective digitised customer service, which a compelling solution for the customer at a provides access to over half a million parts, competitive price.
is enhancing our customer support offering.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 25 1 Discipline in design with operator input ensures successful competitive products.
2 IMI FAS launched the new Microsol MS-E at the Medica 2018 fair in Dsseldorf.
3 IMI Criticals strong reputation means customers work with our businesses to develop products that improve their processes.
4 The extended TA-Slider digital actuator range was developed across four different sites by Hydronic Engineering R&D teams.
5 IMI Norgrens new electric actuator will be launched in 2019.
6 Since launch, TA-Sliders have been installed in hundreds of buildings world-wide.
7 The IMI Norgren Express app.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 26 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic growth priorities Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions Our ambition remains to supplement our organic growth with targeted acquisitions that enhance our business and market reach and leverage the process and integration capabilities developed in the last few years.
As a result, each division maintains an active but relatively short list of potential acquisition partners.
We engage with these companies very early to ensure relationships are established well before any potential deal.
Financial discipline is maintained throughout any process to ensure a deal has a clear integration plan that will deliver acceptable returns, including a financial return in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital within three years.
Our acquisition strategies for the divisions are: IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering Within IMI Critical Engineering, focus remains on As IMIs largest division, IMI Precision Engineering is For IMI Hydronic Engineering, we believe that extending the divisions reach into new, adjacent also the division that offers the greatest potential for an effective way to expand the business in markets and applications to capture a greater share a more significant acquisition.
A number of potential new geographies is to acquire businesses in of customer spend.
Such an expansion might partners in the market are of a larger size and our desired locations that have similar strengths include severe and semi-severe applications and match our criteria of cultural fit and combination to those we enjoy in our own, core regions.
could also involve extending our geographical logic.
Given the size of the market and IMIs strength Those target businesses tend to be smaller, footprint.
IMI Critical Engineerings capabilities in of process and market expertise, we are confident often privately-owned enterprises.
The most likely Value Engineering and New Product Development in our ability to successfully deliver value from an value to be generated from such a combination would support value creation in any completed acquisition in this industry.
The advancement of would be derived from the synergies available acquisition.
Many of the potential acquisitions in the Bimba integration in 2018 provides further by sharing complementary routes to market this segment are small and mid-sized businesses confidence of the significant potential achievable and product ranges.
with a specific market niche and would fit well into through consolidation in this market.
the IMI global network and culture.
This feedback from one of our customers attests to the success of the acquisition and integration of Bimba: The acquisition of Bimba by IMI plc brings together two of the most recognised brands in the industry.
Bimba is very well known as a leader in actuators with extensive product options and a willingness to create unique solutions for even one customer.
Combining the Bimba and IMI brands solidifies IMI as a market leader in the pneumatics industry as well as in electric and hydraulic.
This acquisition has put the industry on notice that IMI is serious about being a solution provider for pneumatic and overall motion products on a global level.
Brendon Connelly Air Inc, US industrial distributor Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 2 1 The Bimba brand holds strong prominence among the North American market for Industrial Automation.
2 Parts are checked for quality as they pass through production at Bimbas University Park, Illinois facility in the USA.
3 Manufactured components undergo strict quality control measures at Bimba.
4 Bimbas PneuMoment pneumatic actuator is designed to move heavy loads.
5 A machinist checks pneumatic actuator rod guides for dimensional conformance at Bimba.
