Company Overview OUR CLIENTS Our new business teams are there to IG has built its name on innovation, fairness and support new clients.
They do this by gaining an understanding of what the outstanding client service.
Its a reputation we have gained client wants to achieve, and are wellover a span of four decades and are extremely proud of.
equipped to explain how our products and services can help realise those aims.
We believe it sets us apart from most companies in our industry.
In achieving our market-leading status, weve Importantly, the new business team also provides another layer of constantly put clients at the heart of our business.
Ourpeople are trained to evaluate, during their conversations, whether A HISTORY OF INNOVATION investment decisions, and we develop the client has a realistic expectation technology to help clients trade more Innovation has been at the heart of our of IG and our products.
effectively, equipped with the tools they business since our inception in 1974.
As need to seize opportunities rapidly.
the UKs original financial spread betting During this fledgling stage of our provider, we introduced a completely relationship, we actively encourage We strive to constantly improve new, accessible way for people to trade clients to use our range of educational and evolve, always driven by the on the price of gold by defining it as materials, and we build their awareness feedback from our clients and our anindex.
of the up-to-the-minute trading understanding of their changing needs.
news and research we provide via This has led to enhancements ranging Over the years, weve evolved and channels such as DailyFX and IGTV.
from the introduction of limited risk broadened our product offering to accounts in 2016 to the launch and meetthe changing needs of traders Consistent and continued access global rollout of our new web trading andinvestors.
From teaching essential to expertise platform during 2017 and 2018. trading skills and risk-management Once clients have become acquainted strategies, to providing market news and with IG, we offer them ongoing support This client-centric approach is central analysis, our extensive range of tools and and assistance via our trading services forour people, too, and everyone at IG resources is specifically geared towards teams.
Available 24 hours a day from lives by a set of values that guide how empowering our clients to trade and 8am Saturday to 10pm Friday, members wedobusiness.
of this team are experts in our products, and are responsive and entirely customerA culture of regulatory compliance Technology has enabled us to continually focused.
If clients have questions about refine our marketing techniques.
We Compliance is not just a team of our products, want to know how our produce highly targeted advertising people at IG, its a concept central to platforms work or have any other type campaigns that introduce our products our culture.
We have closely tracked of enquiry, they can get help from our to the right audience.
A sophisticated and informed the development of trading services team around the clock.
application and onboarding process regulation, and are well placed to deal And with native speakers from every then ensures that only appropriate with regulatory change.
Awareness and territory in which we are present all clients proceed.
Ultimately, we enable respect for the regulatory framework is available via phone, email or web chat sophisticated clients to access products embedded throughout the organisation, we make it as easy as possible for that match their trading objectives.
and is taken into account from the clients to get the information they need, very beginning of a products design quickly and in the way they want it.
A STRATEGY FOCUSED ON through the entire client journey.
At THE CLIENT every stage of the client experience We manage and capture all of we describe here, compliance is key.
our interactions with clients using Our strategy puts our clients first in sophisticated technology.
This all our planning and decision-making.
Comprehensive early client support ensures we can understand the whole Supporting our clients is something relationship we have with each client, we invest in heavily, and we believe When a client first joins us, we and have people available to meet it makes good business sense.
understand they may sometimes their requirements on demand.
Even the most Our business model is dependent on experienced trader needs time to In recognition of our commitment to trading volumes, and we want our clients adjust to a new platform.
To ensure clients, and to ensure were delivering to be successful.
We therefore provide clients are properly supported in those best practice service, we continue extensive educational resources to early days, we employ a professional to be members of the Institute of help our clients identify opportunities.
new business team to introduce them Customer Service.
This enables us to We also deliver news and analysis that to IG and to explain exactly what have our service standards independently traders can use to make informed they can do with our platforms.
appraised and verified according to nationally recognised standards.
08 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info MARKET-LEADING TECHNOLOGY EXTENSIVE LEARNING RESOURCES For all our clients, we provide access We recognise that our technology is to a myriad of educational resources, central to the customer experience, prepared using our long-standing and we seek to get it just right.
We expertise in the key knowledge areas invest heavily in IT development, and required for successful trading.
This are continually looking at ways in which includes materials to help people we can improve the tools clients use learn common trading techniques, to engage, invest and trade with us.
as well as instructional content that demystifies industry jargon and We believe clients should be guides clients through every part of empowered by the technology we our product suite and platforms.
offer and not restricted by it, so in the past few years we have introduced Our investment in education and training significant advancements to help our clients trade more effectively.
is extensive, and has a single purpose tohelp people become more successful The international rollout of our New Web traders.
Through our free IG Academy Trading Platform NWTP provides a more app and website, for example, clients intuitive, personalised trading experience can learn via interactive, step-by-step than ever before.
Fast and customisable, trading courses and webinars aimed it offers integrated research, market at all experience levels.
Likewise, our commentary and news alerts, including extensive collection of online how-to a social media feed.
The new mobile videos is accessible at any time to help web platform, or progressive web app clients enhance their knowledge.
PWA, launched this year allows clients to have seamless use of our trading Its our strong belief that by using platform from desktop to mobile devices, appropriate educational materials without having to visit a third-party and having reliable information app store.
Were proud that our clients at their fingertips, our clients can can now access a platform at the very make better trading decisions.
cutting edge of trading technology.
OUR PURPOSE OUR VALUES IG exists to empower informed, Champion the client decisive, adventurous people Understand them.
Be part of their whole experience.
to access opportunities in the Think big, think long-term.
Makeevery moment count financial markets.
and stick with them all the way.
OUR VISION Lead the way Be brave.
Innovate and adapt to win.
To be a global leader in retail trading Challenge assumptions, ideas, decisions.
Standup and speak your mind.
Love what we do Make it personal.
Care, be passionate, have fun.
Respect our diversity and learn from each other.
Take pride in each others achievements.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 09
