Governance Report DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the Group Financial Statements, for CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the year ended 31 May 2018.
The Directors Report comprises pages 90 to 93 of this STATEMENT report, together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference as In compliance with the UK Financial set out below: Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the CONTENTS PAGE disclosures required by the DTR are set out in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Governance Report.
Corporate Governance Report 46 to 93 PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS Directors Responsibilities Statement 93 The Groups statutory profit for the year Financial instruments 1 19 to 121 after taxation amounted to 226.4 million 2017: 169.2 million, all of which is Greenhouse gas emissions 45 attributable to the equity members of theCompany.
Employee involvement and social matters 40 to 42 The Directors recommend a final ordinary Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 40 to 41 dividend of 33.51 pence per share, amounting to 123.1 million, making Going concern and viability statement 39 a total of 43.2 pence per share and Directors Remuneration Policy, service contracts and details of 62 to 78 158.7 million for the year.
Dividends are Directors interest in shares recognised in the Financial Statements for the year in which they are paid or, Likely future developments 10 to 45 in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The Risk management and internal control 56 amount recognised in the Financial Statements, as described in note 10, Anti-bribery and Corruption 43 includes this financial years interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, both of which were paid.
Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 In line with the requirements under The final ordinary dividend, if approved, the Act requires the Directors to present Capital Requirements Capital Directive will be paid on 26 October 2018 to those a Strategic Report in the Annual Report IV, requiring credit institutions and shareholders on the register as at and Financial Statements.
The information investment firms to publish annually 28 September 2018. can be found on pages 10 to 45. certain tax and financial data for each country where they operate, the Groups Certain nominee companies representing The Company has chosen, in accordance UK regulated subsidiaries will make our Employee Benefit Trusts hold shares with section 414C 11 of the Act and as available their country-by-country in the Company, in connection with the noted in this Directors Report, to include reporting on the Groups website: operation of the Companys share plans.
certain matters in its Strategic Report that iggroup.
Evergreen dividend waivers remain in would otherwise be disclosed in this place on shares held by them that have Directors Report.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED PURSUANT not been allocated to employees.
4R Section 414CA of the Act requires the ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION In compliance with the UK Financial Company to include within its Strategic Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the The Companys Articles of Association Report a non-financial statement setting information in Listing Rule 9.8.
4R to be the Articles are available from the out such information as is required included in the Annual Report and Groups website, iggroup.
com, or by bySection 414CB of the Act.
Such Accounts, where applicable, can be writing to the Company Secretary information is set out in the Corporate found on the following pages: at the Groups registered office.
The Social Responsibility section on pages 40 Articles can also be obtained from to 45, in the Business Model and Risk the UK Registrar of Companies.
The DETAIL PAGE Profile section on pages 16 to 19 and Articles were last amended by the inthe Risk Management and Going shareholders by means of a special Concern and Viability Statement sections Waiver of dividends 90 resolution on 21 September 2016. on pages 32 to 39.
90 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS of the total issued share capital and 40,000 preference shares of 1.00 each Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the year are set out on pages 48 representing 0.01% of the total issued to 49 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of Directors beneficial share capital.
Details of movement and non-beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are shown on page 75. in the Companys share capital and There have been no changes to Directors during this financial year.
However, there rights attached to the issued shares were twoappointments made to the Board, with effect from 1 June 2018.
The details are given in note 20 to the Financial are set outbelow: Statements.
Information about the rights attached to the Companys shares can NAME ROLE EFFECTIVE DATE OF also be found in the Articles.
Details APPOINTMENT RESIGNATION of the Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed in the Operating and Financial Review on page 30.
Bridget Messer Executive Appointment at 1 June 2018 Director Chief Commercial Officer VARIATION OF RIGHTS Jon Noble Executive Appointment at 1 June 2018 Subject to the provisions of applicable Director Chief Information Officer statutes, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, either with the consent in writing of the holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value of INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT the issued shares of that class, or with the OFDIRECTORS The Group has Directors and Officers sanction of a Special Resolution passed at The appointment and retirement of liability insurance in place, providing a separate meeting of the holders of the Directors is governed by the Articles, appropriate cover for any legal action shares of that class.
the UK Corporate Governance Code brought against its Directors.
Qualifying the Code, the Act and related third-party indemnity provisions as RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF legislation.
The Board has the power defined by Section 234 of the Act were SECURITIES to appoint any person as a Director to in force during the year ended 31 May There are no specific restrictions on the fill a casual vacancy or as an additional 2018.
These provisions remain in force transfer of securities in the Company, Director, provided the total number forthe benefit of the Directors, in relation other than as contained in the Articles of Directors does not exceed the to certain losses and liabilities which and certain laws or regulations, such as maximum prescribed in the Articles.
theymay incur or have incurred to those related to insider trading, which Any such Director holds office only until thirdparties in the course of acting may be imposed from time to time.
The the next AGM, and is then eligible to asDirectors of the Company.
Directors and certain employees of the offer himself or herself for election.
Company are required to obtain the RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Companys approval prior to dealing in The Articles also require that all those In the ordinary course of business, the the Companys securities.
The Company Directors who have been in office at the Company regularly develops new is not aware of any agreements between time of the two previous AGMs, and products and services.
holders of securities that may result in who did not retire at either of them, restrictions on the transfer of securities or must retire as Directors by rotation.
Such POLITICAL DONATIONS on voting rights.
Directors are eligible to stand for reThe Company made no political election.
However, in line with the Codes donations to political organisations or EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN recommendation that all Directors of independent election candidates and EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES FTSE 350 companies should be subject incurred no political expenditure in the to annual election, all Directors will The trustees of the IG Group Employee year 2017: nil.
stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Benefit Trust do not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the SHARE CAPITAL DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST employee trusts, other than on the The Company has three classes of shares: direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
In accordance with the Act, all Directors ordinary shares, deferred redeemable No voting rights are exercised in relation must disclose both the nature and extent shares and preference shares.
As at to shares unallocated to individual of any potential or actual conflicts with 31 May 2018, the Companys issued beneficiaries.
The trustees have a the interests of the Company.
We explain shares comprised 367,889,455 ordinary dividend waiver in place in respect of the procedure for this on page 54. shares of 0.005p each representing unallocated shares held in the trust.
99.97% of the total issued share capital, 65,000 deferred redeemable shares of 0.001p each representing 0.02% IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91 Governance Report DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS and as at 16 July 2018.
Holders are DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO TOISSUE OR PURCHASE THE not required to notify the Company of DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION COMPANYS SHARES any change until the next applicable TOAUDITORS threshold is reached or crossed.
The Articles permit the Directors to issue So far as each person who was a or repurchase the Companys own shares, Director at the date of approving this CHANGE OF CONTROL subject to obtaining shareholders prior report is aware, there is no relevant approval.
The shareholders gave this Following any future change of control of audit information, being information approval at the 2017 AGM.
The authority the Company, participating lenders in the needed by the Auditors in connection to issue or buy back shares will expire at Groups bank facility agreement have the with preparing their report, of which the 2018 AGM, and it will be proposed option to cancel their commitment.
Upon the Auditors are unaware.
Each Director at the meeting that the Directors be such cancellation, any outstanding loans, has taken all the steps that he or she is granted new authorities to issue or buy including accrued interests and other obliged to take as a Director in order back shares.
The Directors currently have amounts due to lenders will become to make himself or herself aware of authority to purchase up to 36,698,158 of immediately due and payable.
Further any relevant audit information, and to the Companys ordinary shares.
However, details may be found in note 28 to the establish that the Companys Auditors the Company did not repurchase any Financial Statements.
are aware of that information.
This of its ordinary shares during the year.
confirmation is given pursuant to Section There are no agreements between 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and During the year, the Company instructed the Company and its Directors or should be interpreted in accordance employees providing for compensation the trustee of the Employee Benefit with and subject to these provisions.
on any loss of office or employment Trusts to purchase shares in order to that occurs because of a takeover bid.
satisfy awards under the Groups shareSUBSEQUENT EVENTS However, options and awards granted incentive plan schemes.
The Company Please refer to note 28 of the Financial to employees under the Companys also issued shares in respect of the Statements share schemes and plans may vest on a Sustained Performance Plan.
Details of takeover, under the schemes provisions.
the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and the amounts paid ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the Financial Statements.
The Companys AGM will be held on 20 September 2018.
Details of the MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES resolutions to be proposed at the AGM Information provided to the Company will be provided in a separate circular by major shareholders pursuant to the sentto all shareholders.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Rules DTRs is published via a Regulatory Resolutions to reappoint Information Service and is available on  LLP as the the Companys website.
The following Companys Auditors and to authorise information has been received, in the Directors to determine their accordance with DTR5, from holders of remuneration will be put to shareholders notifiable interests in the Companys at the AGM on 20 September 2018. issued share capital as at 31 May 2018 31 MAY 2018 16 JULY 2018 NO.
