Strategic Report BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE We put our clients at the heart of IG exists to empower informed, decisive, adventurous people everything we do, and we strive to ensure that we understand our clients needs and to access opportunities in the financial markets.
consistently deliver fair outcomes and positive experiences.
We have a very low tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, The Group faces conduct risk relating The business offers its clients and we are committed to continued tohow it deals with its clients and with opportunities to trade in a wide investment in process, training and culture the markets.
range of markets, including equity to prevent unsatisfactory customer indices, individual equities, forex, experiences and to address root causes IG operates in a dynamic competitive interest rates and commodities, where any practice falls short.
environment, and its revenue is dependent through online dealing platforms.
on the number of active customers and We ensure that commitment to our the level of their activity.
The business The business also offers its clients a share customers is embedded in our culture therefore faces risks relating to market dealing platform, as well as an innovative and strategic initiatives, and we conditions and its competitive position.
portfolio-based product for longer-term regularlyseek and review feedback from investment purposes, in partnership with our clients.
This enables us to develop The business operates in a number of BlackRock, one of the worlds leading ourproducts and services specifically to geographic markets and is regulated asset managers.
meet the needs of active traders and by various different financial services investors globally.
These RISK PROFILE regulations affect how the business is able IGs business model is based on Central to our commitment to our to market and provide its services to clients.
generating a return from its services customers is the quality of our order The regulations relating to the products through transaction fees charged to execution.
We process 100% of active and markets in which the business operates clients.
The level of revenue in any client trades automatically and we never are continually evolving.
IG supports the period is predominantly driven by the requote prices.
Should a significantly objectives of regulators to improve client number of active clients the business better price become available for outcomes, but the business faces risks serves in that period and the level of customers during the dealing process, our arising from changes in its regulatory activity undertaken by each client.
innovative price-improvement technology environments that may adversely impact enables customers to receive that better its activities or its competitive position.
The business does not seek to price during trade execution.
generate returns from actively CLIENTS taking market risk: it does not take Clients investment requirements proprietary trading positions, and IG has three categories of clients: retail, and appetite for risk change over its revenue is not dependent on the professional and institutional.
These clients time, affected by factors such as direction of market movements.
are knowledgeable and demanding, and family or financial commitments or they expect highly sophisticated the need to plan for retirement, and In accordance with the Risk Appetite technology, which they use frequently.
this offered us the opportunity to set by the Board, the Group accepts broaden our product set to appeal to some exposure to market and credit Within IGs client base there are a relatively sophisticated investors.
risk to optimise the efficiency and significant number of clients who are effectiveness of its services to clients.
eligible to be categorised as professional Our range of products includes share The business manages the market traders meaning that they are not subject dealing and investment portfolios, and risk it faces in providing its services to to the product restriction measures clients are able to hold their investments in clients, by internalising client flow and developed by the European Securities and ISAs and SIPPs.
Offering these services hedging when the residual exposures Markets Authority ESMA for retail clients.
allows us to deepen and lengthen our reach defined limits, so that its returns We offer clients the opportunity to be relationship with our clients by catering for are driven by transaction fees charged, classified as professional traders in the EU their evolving needs.
and are not significantly affected and UK, under MiFID categorisations.
by movements in market prices.
However, we require them to demonstrate In addition to dealing directly with clients, compliance with a set of rigorous eligibility IG services clients introduced through As a result of its business model, the criteria to ensure that they are suitably third parties who do not have their own Group also faces liquidity and capital qualified for this designation.
front-end offering, and want to take adequacy risk.
advantage of our award-winning dealing IG provides services to institutions, technology and expertise.
They introduce The business faces operational risks, including asset managers, hedge funds, their clients to us, and we handle all including those arising through technology, broker-dealers and competitors, who lack trading activity and provide back-end people, process and external events.
sufficient scale to gain direct access to the support.
The introducer manages the major hedging counterparties.
16 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info automatically.
At 31 May 2018, 99.95% of We carefully assess the risk and potential Appropriateness all client accounts were subject to the returns from introducers, and only partner Our products are not appropriate COM procedure.
with reputable institutions that are for everyone, and good conduct is committed to the same rigorous particularly vital in relation to marketing Our clients can choose to attach standards of regulatory compliance as and client recruitment to prevent guaranteed stops to their positions, so ourselves, and that fit our risk profile.
We seek that they know their maximum possible to ensure that our advertising is not loss at the outset of a trade.
Our Client acquisition and education reaching an inappropriate audience, innovative charging system encourages and that our clients appreciate the Acquiring a new client begins with our clients to use guaranteed stops: risks involved with our products and a targeted global marketing effort, nopremium is payable for attaching a understand how our services work.
with online marketing managed guaranteed stop unless it is triggered, so We follow strict guidelines to ensure centrally and offline activity managed clients will frequently receive protection that we only promote our products to by countryoffices.
Our sophisticated free of charge.
IG was the first provider a target audience within appropriate onlinemarketing uses an algorithmic tooffer guaranteed stops on this basis.
approach, which enables us to reach sectors and demographic groups.
larger numbers of the right prospects With effect from 1 August 2018, all retail more efficiently.
We are able to We also conduct rigorous checks to clients in the UK and EU will benefit from react immediately to world events, ensure that all promotions are clear, negative balance protection.
This gives creating campaigns rapidly and rolling fair and not misleading, and that these clients the guarantee that they them out to relevant regions, with risks are not downplayed compared cannot lose more capital than they have appropriate local adjustments.
to the benefits of our products.
As well as marketing our products Before we allow a prospective client REVENUE GENERATION directly, we provide a number of to open an account, we carry out an education, news and analysis services, assessment to determine whether our The Groups business is conducted which encourage people to engage products are appropriate for them.
through four revenue-generation with IG and to learn about our products We actively question applicants to models: OTC leveraged derivatives, and how to trade effectively and assess whether they have the necessary exchange-traded derivatives, responsibly.
These include online knowledge and experience to understand share dealing and investments.
courses, webinars and seminars via IG the risks involved.
We ask clients for Academy, plus the IGTV channel, a suite details of their income and savings, OTC leveraged derivatives of YouTube videos and the DailyFX both at account opening and in rolling The vast majority of the Groups newsand analysis website.
Based on the results of these revenue is derived from OTC leveraged assetsreinforce our commitment to assessments, in addition to providing derivatives.
Clients enter into derivative transparency, ensuring our new and clear warnings about the appropriateness instruments: contracts for difference, existing clients are well informed about of the product, we may decline to open financial spread bets and options.
an account, or provide an applicant with These enable them to take long or short a type of account where risk is limited.
positions, for varied durations, in a wide Our extensive educational resources We may also close an open account.
range of financial and other markets, include an introduction programme gaining exposure to price movements thatpromotes responsible trading.
Client risk management tools in those markets without needing to Clients can access expert tutorials, We take very seriously our responsibility buy or sell the underlying asset.
whichcover everything from to help clients understand the risks fundamental trading concepts to risk associated with trading and to provide The Groups OTC leveraged derivatives management.
We seek to ensure that them with tools to manage this.
are priced to clients by reference to this content is engaging and is targeted Given our business model, it is in IGs prices in the underlying markets.
When towards our clients needs.
interest to develop lasting relationships markets are open, the prices of the with clients, as those who are more derivative contracts are updated in We also provide an extensive range successful stay with us over the long real time, reflecting the prices in the oftrading tools, such as regular term and become more valuable.
For the majority freenews, commentary and analysis of the derivatives, the price includes on IGTV and via the News and We have a number of services designed a spread around the underlying Analysis section of our website.
We tohelp clients limit any losses they market price.
For some derivatives on offer charting packages and various maymake.
single equities, clients are charged a technical analysis tools that enable commission instead, and the contract our clients to screen markets for Our close-out monitor COM liquidates does not include a spread.
Clients are trading opportunities and to receive clients positions when their margin has charged funding when long positions alerts when trading signals appear.
been significantly eroded, and helps are held overnight, and receive funding protect clients by closing positions when short positions are held overnight.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 Strategic Report BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE CONTINUED transactions in the period.
IGs trading IG is the counterparty to the OTC The Groups OTC leveraged derivatives revenue from this service is net of leveraged derivatives that clients enter activities give rise to liquidity risk.
The theexecution fees the Group pays in into, and as a result the business faces business trades its hedging contracts on margin, and is required to deposit initial themarket.
The Group accepts this market margin with its brokers, reflecting the risk in order to allow instant execution of gross amount of open positions with Clients fund the purchases of equities in client orders.
The business manages the each broker.
As the gross amounts full at the time of placing the order.
This market risk it faces through internalisation of open positions change, and as activity does not give rise to any market allowing individual client trades to offset marketprices move, the amount of risk or client credit risk for the Group.
against each other and by hedging the margin the Group has to deposit residual risk in each market at defined also alters, and the Groupis required Investments limits, by entering into derivative contracts to deposit margin withits brokers with its hedging brokers.
The Group seeks The Group offers a portfolio-based on demand.
The business therefore to hedge its residual market exposures in investment service.
Clients are faces liquidity risk through its hedging an efficient manner, by grouping its advised, through undertaking an activities, and counterparty credit exposures into asset classes, and therefore online questionnaire, which of five risk through the amounts it holds does not hedge its exposures exactly, portfolios comprising a basket of on deposit with its brokers.
which gives rise to basis risk.
ETFs is best suited to their investment needs, and these portfolios rebalance The Groups exposure to any one hedging Through the process of internalisation periodically.
Alternatively, clients can counterparty is restricted by large and hedging, the Group limits the choose their own portfolio of ETFs exposure rules, and the Group needs to market risk it faces, so that its trading to reflect their investment profile.
maintain a number of different hedging revenue from OTC leveraged derivatives relationships to manage the capacity it predominantly reflects the charges paid The Group charges a percentage requires to hedge.
by clients through spread, commission feeonthe value of the assets under and funding, less the costs incurred in management, and its trading revenue Exchange traded derivatives hedging.
This internalisation is key to the reflects these fees less the amount paid Groups business model and profitability, The Groups revenue from exchangeto the provider of the ETFs.
as it reduces the cost of hedging traded derivatives is derived from market risk in the underlying markets.
Nadex, a regulated derivatives exchange, Clients fund the purchases of the on which clients can trade options investments in full at the time of placing The majority of the OTC derivatives contracts on a wide range of underlying the order.
This activity does not give rise offered by the Group are leveraged.
markets, with various strike prices and to any market risk or client credit risk for Clients trade contracts for difference or expirations.
Clients become members the Group.
financial spread bets on margin.
Clients of the exchange, and pay a trading fee only need to have sufficient funds in their on each side of the trade: once to open, DIFFERENTIATION account to cover the margin required to and once to close.
Under this model, Brand enter into a derivative contract, not its clients do not trade on margin, and IG is a global leader in online trading fullvalue.
therefore these contracts do not involve and the trusted partner for more than leverage, and the exchange does not 1 95,000 clients.
A FTSE 250 company Margin is usually expressed as a face either market or client credit risk.
with market capitalisation of over percentage of the notional value of the 3.1billion, the Group has a long history trade, and allows a client to use leverage Prices for contracts listed on the exchange of profitability and financial strength.
to take a position in a market with a are provided by market makers, who notional value that is significantly in excess are also members of the exchange IG started in 1974 as the UKs original of the funds they are required to deposit.
IG operates financial spread betting provider, Leveraged derivative contracts therefore as one of the market makers to the introducing a completely new, magnify the gains or losses a client can exchange, and faces market risk as a accessible way for people to trade make relative to the funds deposited.
on gold, by defining it as an index.
Since then, the Groups innovative, The Group faces client credit risk, as Share dealing client-focused approach has enabled leveraged contracts can result in a client The Group operates an execution-only the business to grow, expand making losses in excess of the funds in share dealing platform, through which internationally and broaden its product their account, and they may be unable to clients can buy and sell individual equities range, and today IG is the worlds No.
The level of margin listed on exchanges around the world.
CFD provider as well as maintaining its foreach contract is set according to any considerable UK market leadership in relevant regulatory requirements and the The Group charges a transaction fee for financial spread betting.
volatility of prices in the underlying market, each purchase and sale transaction, and and reduces the client credit risk faced by there is a custody fee which is rebated to the Group.
clients who undertake a certain level of 18 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Conduct The unified global IG brand was andweb application programming established in 2013 through the interface API solutions.
IG always seeks to operate in clients acquisition of the IG.
The business targets This pivotal event gave the Group the Client service its marketing and advertising to an framework to consolidate its global Providing clients with the best service appropriate audience, and seeks to web traffic through a single route in isat the heart of the corporate culture ensure that it opens leveraged trading order to focus on online leadership atIG.
The operating model and offices accounts only for clients for whom the something that is increasingly important around the world allow the business product is appropriate.
The business for acquiring, educating and providing toprovide an uninterrupted service to seeks to ensure that all clients are a high level of service for clients.
In addition to the global network treated fairly.
It provides educational of offices, the business has operations and training materials to clients to help Technology and innovation and development centres in Krakow and them understand our products and Bangalore that allow the Group to access services well, so that they gain utility The Groups success has been founded the skills needed to support clients.
The Group believes that on developing technology that is marketleading and empowering for clients.
this approach results in a high level IG was the first company in the sector The business offers a range of free of trust in the business by clients, tolaunch an online dealing platform, seminars and online tutorials for clients, and is an important contributor to in 1998, and the first to launch a mobile and provides dedicated 24-hour support long-standing client relationships.
app with live price streaming, in 2003. from our client services team.
This team is The Company first offered a CFD on fully trained to understand our products Business model bitcoin in 2013.
The business invests in and how they are best suited to individual IGs business model ensures that the developing new tools and features for clients.
Clients can contact IG client interests of the Company are aligned its client-facing platforms a continuous services through email, telephone and with those of its clients.
As a result of process that is directed by detailed web chat.
The business seeks to ensure the internalisation and hedging policy, research into clients evolving needs.
that correspondence with clients is always revenue is earned from clients transaction clear and fair, and is never misleading.
fees, and it is the volume of client trading The Group provides clients with trading that drives revenue, not clients losses.
platforms that meet their requirements, To ensure that clients are at the The business benefits when clients whether they access them from home heart of the business, feedback is trade well, as they are then more likely oron the move.
This year the business encouraged and IG offers clear channels to continue to trade.
This underpins successfully extended our new web for comments and complaints.
The IGs culture of championing the client.
trading platform across our global business closely monitors its service operations.
Its speed, customisation standards through key performance facilities and integrated news and and risk indicators tracked in real time.
analysis feeds are at the cutting edge of trading technology.
Designed to Risk management provide an intuitive, personalised IG has operated for over 40 years, and experience for traders of all styles and has well-established processes for knowledge levels, the new platform is identifying and managing risks.
The at the core of the suite of trading tools Board sets the Groups Risk Appetite and resources offered to clients.
and monitors how well risks within the business are mitigated and controlled.
In addition to its popular mobile apps, The Group has a particularly low level the Group has recently developed and of appetite for regulatory and conduct launched a progressive web app PWA risk.
IG focuses on the long term, and or mobile web platform.
The PWA on doing things properly to support has been designed to provide clients a sustainably growing business.
with an optimised web-based experience when accessing the trading platform As a result, the Companys shareholders from mobile devices.
It will also allow the and IGs many stakeholders, including business to release updates quickly and clients, regulators and suppliers, can seamlessly, avoiding the delays inherent have confidence that the business has in traditional app store review processes.
the capacity to manage the risks it faces, and that it will be able to continue For more advanced and institutional to operate normally under stressed clients, the business provides a range conditions and through financial market ofprofessional technology, including a volatility and operational risk events.
direct market access DMA platform, sophisticated technical analysis tools IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19
