Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 09 Group revenue by geography Revenue by division RoW 4% Western Europe UK IMI Critical 36% 5% IMI Precision Engineering 36% Engineering 48% Emerging North IMI Hydronic Markets America Engineering 32% 23% 16% IMIs global footprint http: www.
aspx Key brands IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI CCI, IMI Fluid Kinetics, IMI InterAtiva, Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation IMI NH, IMI Orton, IMI Remosa, IMI STI, IMI TH Jansen, IMI Truflo We are the world leading We supply anti-surge valve We design and manufacture We focus on the design Marine, IMI Truflo Rona, IMI Truflo supplier of engineered to and actuator systems to integrated flow control systems and production of complete Italy, IMI Z&J, IMI Zikesch order turbine bypass valves the worlds largest LNG for critical applications in Fluid actuation systems to operate for critical applications in compression facilities.
We also industrial valves for the most Main markets conventional and nuclear Our systems are capable supply bespoke valves into the demanding applications and Oil & Gas, Fossil Power, Nuclear power plants helping to of ultra-fast response to ethylene, polypropylene and processes in terms of forces, Power, Petrochemical, Iron & Steel, provide the safest, most maximise LNG production delayed coking production speed and accuracy and Desalination and Process Industries reliable and efficient power while protecting the processes.
Brazil, China, Czech Republic, 2018 revenue: 117m 2018 revenue: 25m Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South 2018 revenue: 266m 2018 revenue: 224m Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA Key brands IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS, IMI Herion, IMI Maxseal, Bimba Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Main markets We supply high performance We design and manufacture We offer a comprehensive We supply precision flow Commercial Vehicle, Energy, Food products including valves, a range of cab chassis range of products which deliver control solutions used in and Beverage, Industrial Automation, valve islands, proportional and and powertrain solutions precision control in even medical devices, diagnostic Life Sciences and Rail pressure monitoring controls which deliver fuel efficiency, the harshest environments, equipment and biotech and Major operational locations and air preparation products, emissions reduction and including stainless steel analytical instruments.
Our Brazil, China, Czech Republic, as well as a comprehensive faster assembly times for the valves and regulators, nuclear products help to reduce Germany, India, Mexico, Switzerland, range of pneumatic actuators.
worlds leading commercial class valves and emergency the size of equipment, UK and USA vehicle manufacturers.
while enhancing accuracy, 2018 revenue: 525m throughput and fluid control 2018 revenue: 196m 2018 revenue: 77m performance.
2018 revenue: 77m Key brands IMI Flow Design, IMI Heimeier, IMI Pneumatex, IMI TA Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Main markets Our hydronic balancing and We design and manufacture Reliable pressurisation is a basic The single most important Water based heating and cooling control solutions enable thermostatic control systems requirement for a trouble-free component in any hydronic systems for commercial buildings, buildings to keep comfort at which guarantee direct or operation of heating, cooling system is the water itself.
When and temperature control for the right level while improving automatic control of radiators and solar systems.
Our robust compromised, the effects can residential buildings HVAC efficiency by up to 30%.
and underfloor heating range of pressure maintenance be felt throughout the system.
Major operational locations Our expertise covers constant systems to perfectly control systems with compressors or Our dirt and air separators Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, and variable flow and both individual room temperatures.
pumps and expansion vessels and pressure step degassers Switzerland and USA static and dynamic balancing.
maintains the right pressure in protect the installation 2018 revenue: 98m the system at all times.
by keeping water free of 2018 revenue: 151m microbubbles and sludge.
2018 revenue: 32m 2018 revenue: 10m eco-system Goggle valves Refinery We keep the world moving from petrol to diesel and jet fuel, our specialist valves refine crude oil to provide a wide range of products.
Conventional control valves Specialist triple eccentric Industrial ISOLine actuator butterfly valves Automation 100DMT choke valve We develop solutions for our customers in the machinery: food and beverage: printing: and Offshore platform factory automation industries.
Control Excelon Plus air We design and provide valves valves preparation for the most critical applications including offshore.
Bimba Intellisense Specialist ball valves Our role in the world eco-system MICROSOL MS-E Medical Data centres Pressurisation devices and We ensure stable pressure and clean water for high cooling intensity instrumentation applications, preventing premature We help OEMs increase equipment failure and costly downtime.
performance of their systems, enabling cutting Dirt separation edge devices that improve Balancing valves health and the environment.
Cadent 3 pump Bimba Versagrip Hospitals solenoid pinch valve Our products help to deliver quality, energy-efficient HVAC systems, which ensure optimal patient comfort.
Excelon Plus air preparation Differential pressure Thermosatic controls controls Our products and technologies are used in a wide range of applications to help processes across many sectors operate safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively.
Family house Commercial Vehicle We provide a comprehensive range of thermostatic control Our range of cab, chassis and powertrain products, ensuring optimal solutions deliver fuel efficiency, emissions temperature control and reduction and faster assembly times.
Underfloor Manual heating transmission manifolds controls Radiator valves with automatic Triple eccentric Multipurpose Thermostatic butterfly valves flow control controls commercial building LNG Our balancing and control solutions We provide the control and combine highly precise mechanical valves Pressure safety systems to ensure and digital actuation allowing complete independent safe delivery of liquefied electronic integration and greater efficiency modulating natural gas to power cities in complex heating and cooling systems.
Combined control & Isolation balancing cryogenic Anti-surge valves ball valves Digital actuation Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Combined cycle power plant Products designed to cope with high Commercial Vehicle pressure and temperature differences Our range of cab, chassis and powertrain in the most critical applications ensures solutions deliver fuel efficiency, emissions power is available when needed.
reduction and faster assembly times.
Manual Engine control Turbine bypass transmission multi-valve block valves controls Valve arrays Desuperheaters AMT compressed Rail air dryer Pressure We offer customised solutions for independent all types of rail applications.
modulating control Pantograph control systems Door control valve systems 10 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 IMI Critical Engineering are renowned for design and manufacture of specialist products in offshore applications.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 Strategic Review 12 Chief Executives review 16 Our strategic model 18 Strategic growth priorities 28 Operational review 34 Corporate responsibility 44 Measurements and targets 46 How we manage risk Engineering GREAT the IMI Way
