Strategic Report MAIN TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO AFFECT THE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT, PERFORMANCE AND POSITION OF THE COMPANYS BUSINESS new clients and the level of individual THE IMPACT OF A CHANGING period is predominantly driven by the client trading activity.
Measures of REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT number of active clients the business financial market volatility, such as the serves in that period and the level of IG operates in a highly regulated activity undertaken by each client.
VIX index, have been at historically environment, which is continually low levels over the last four years.
In the past year, there has The Group invests in marketing each is expected that an increase in the been a series of significant regulatory year to attract new clients, and seeks to general level of financial market volatility proposals, particularly from the retain clients through the provision of would be beneficial to the Groups European Securities and Markets quality services and products.
The revenue, which is therefore partly Authority ESMA.
ESMA has introduced number of unique active clients has dependent upon market conditions.
temporary measures which restrict the been increasing for the last four years, marketing and sale of CFDs, and include with the number of new clients trading THE UKS EXIT FROM THE leverage restrictions, loss protections for the first time each year, together with EUROPEANUNION and risk warnings.
The UKs Financial the number of clients who returned to Conduct Authority FCA has indicated The Group currently operates its trading, exceeding the number who it will consult on whether the ESMA business in the EU through branches of stopped trading.
This trend has been a measures should apply in the UK on a its UK-domiciled and regulated legal key driver of revenue growth.
IG welcomes robust, entities, under the passporting rules.
The proportionate regulation and continues terms and nature of the arrangements The Group continues to focus on the to work closely with regulators.
under which the UK will leave the EU effectiveness of its targeted marketing, remain unclear.
The Group may need and manages the level of marketing It is too early to determine precisely how to establish one or more subsidiary spend to maintain an attractive consumers will react to the regulators entities domiciled and regulated within payback on the investment.
The level new rules and what the long-term the EU.
This year, as a contingency, of marketing spend in any period varies outcome for the Company will be.
we have progressed with establishing according to the perceived opportunity The Company has been developing a a subsidiary in Germany, which in the to spend effectively, and changes in number of contingencies to mitigate future can be utilised to serve our EU the level of marketing spend, in the disruption and retain choice for clients.
The success of the Group in effectiveness of that spend, or in the IG has a history of innovation and establishing appropriate structures rate of client attrition and reactivation flexibility, and a proven track record of through which to continue operating could have a significant effect on deploying technology and skills to adapt its business in the EU, including the Groups future performance.
its business in response to regulatory receiving relevant regulatory approvals and market changes.
In the Companys and the costs involved in establishing THE LEVEL OF INVESTMENT IN, experience, when tighter regulation and running additional regulated ANDSUCCESS OF, NEW INITIATIVES has been applied appropriately, client entities, could have a significant outcomes have improved: the industry The Group continues to identify impact on its future performance.
has become more sustainable and opportunities to invest in new initiatives high-quality providers, like IG, have to further broaden its range of products ACTIONS OF COMPETITORS benefited over the longer term.
and services and its geographic The Group operates in a highly coverage.
These investments tend competitive environment, which Over the last 44 years, IGs strategy to have a longer payback period includes some unregulated and illegal has been one of differentiation within than marketing investment, and the operators at one end, and some highly the industry, through its adherence to level of investment depends on the regulated operators offering similar the highest regulatory standards and opportunities available.
Financial products to IG at the other.
The actions its focus on fair outcomes for clients.
performance in any one period can of our competitors in response to IG believes in robust, proportionate therefore be affected by the extent regulatory change in the EU, and the and consistently applied regulatory of such investment, and future extent to which our competitors comply oversight of the CFD sector, and as performance will be affected by with both the letter and spirit of the new such fully supports the regulatory the success of such initiatives.
regulations, may affect our competitive objective to improve consumer position within the industry, and may outcomes across the industry.
THE LEVEL OF VOLATILITY IN affect the reputation of the industry as a FINANCIAL MARKETS whole.
IG and its regulated competitors THE LEVEL OF MARKETING SPEND, One factor affecting our ability to attract may innovate in the leveraged trading THE EFFECTIVENESS OF MARKETING new clients, and the willingness of clients sector, which could lead to firms other IN ATTRACTING NEW CLIENTS AND to trade, is the volume of opportunities than IG establishing competitive firstTHE RATE OF CLIENT ATTRITION clients perceive are available to mover advantages in new product lines.
IGs business model is based on them in the markets.
Higher levels of generating a return from its services volatility in financial markets tend to through transaction fees charged to generate trading opportunities, which clients.
The level of revenue in any support the Groups efforts to attract 20 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21
