Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES OUR OBJECTIVES Our goal is to build lasting, valuable relationships with our clients.
We target sophisticated, active traders, who are valuable because they tend to deal in leveraged derivatives frequently and in large sizes.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS We have a broad product range, including non-leveraged offerings in our more mature OF ACTIVE TRADERS markets, to offer our customers a more comprehensive service.
These clients select providers who offer the best tools and products and the highest standards of integrity AND INVESTORS to manage their long-term finances.
IG is ideally positioned to fulfil their needs, and so to enhance client loyalty and improve retention.
Our market leadership in CFDs and spread betting reflects the unrivalled service, products and platform technology we provide.
We will continue to strengthen our position in these core products, while also creating competitive, innovative offerings in the share dealing and wealth management fields.
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN We will look to continue developing products and services founded on our existing AND EXTEND MARKET strengths cutting-edge technology, transparency, integrity and expert client service LEADERSHIP to allow us to deal with regulatory change and to drive the long-term profitability of our business.
We have a mix of more and less-mature countries of operation, all of which have room for growth.
We will continue our international expansion by establishing a local presence in new STRENGTHEN OUR countries, and by continuing to grow our business across borders, without the need for a physical presence, utilising the strength of our single, global brand, combined GLOBAL REACH withour expertise in online marketing techniques.
By maintaining absolute integrity, delivering excellent customer service and fast, reliable execution with transparent pricing, we strive to make our clients feel secure and confident in trading with us.
This results in a longer, more valuable relationship.
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO OUR CLIENTS The market-leading functionality, speed and security of our platform and its proven resilience are essential to maintaining client satisfaction and enhancing client acquisition and retention.
We will continue to invest in our core online platform to stay at the forefront of the market, and on improving the functionality SUSTAIN OUR LEADERSHIP we offer on mobile devices.
IN TECHNOLOGY IG strives to create a digitally driven, client-centric organisation, where our people are passionate about our clients experience and are engaged advocates of our business.
IG has a people strategy to allow it to acquire, retain and develop high-quality talent ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND in an inclusive, fair and engaging environment.
RETAIN THE BEST PEOPLE IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15
