139 Directors Report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Strategic report the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required The strategic report is incorporated by reference and includes the in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject to applicable following content: statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it Strategic Review Pages 10 to 49 does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Commentary provided on the consolidated Page 85 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and income statement accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 86 to 87 and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may statement of comprehensive income receive a dividend and on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the Company.
Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 86 to 87 Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition statement of changes in equity a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the Commentary provided on the consolidated Pages 89 and 91 treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
balance sheet and the consolidated statement of cash flows There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Results and dividend certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 84.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 266.3m 2017: 240.9m and profit before pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors taxation and discontinued operations amounted to 212.9m 2017: 180.9m.
and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 26.0p per share 2017: 25.2p per share on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2019, on 17 May 2019 to may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
Together None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of with the interim dividend of 14.6p per share paid on 14 September 2018, this the Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the final dividend will bring the total distribution for the year to 40.6p per share ordinary shares held in treasury.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and 2017: 39.4p per share.
voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later than 48 hours excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, or subject Research and development to the Companys articles of association any adjournment thereof.
3.3 to the financial statements on page 97.
Treasury shares Shareholders funds The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on 3 Shareholders funds increased from 607.4m at the end of 2017 to 666.2m May 2018 to purchase up to 27,204,275 of its ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2019, where shareholders will be asked to give a similar Share capital authority, details of which will be given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2018, the Companys share capital comprised a single class As at 31 December 2018, 14,248,836 ordinary shares nominal value of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Details 4,071,096 were held in treasury representing 5% of the issued share capital of the share capital of the Company are set out in Section 4.10 to the financial excluding treasury shares at that time.
The maximum number of shares held statements on page 164.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the in treasury during the year ended 31 December 2018 was 14,248,836.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
See page 164 for further details.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the As at 31 December 2018, 1,368,194 shares were held in an employee trust Companys website.
As at 31 December 2018, the following voting interests for use in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.5% of the in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The independent Guidance and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: trustee of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder other than as specifically restricted in the governing trust deed.
The EBT has agreed to waive 1 % Held any right to all dividend payments now and in the future.
Participants in option schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 13.03% Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.93% During 2018, 63,152 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share schemes: 63,152 under save as you earn plans and nil under executive share Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 4.97% plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Legal & General Group plc 3.03% The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company.
out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website or by writing to 140 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report continued Subsequent to 31 December 2018 and up to the date of this Report, two Qualifying indemnity provisions and liability insurance changes in the voting interests have been notified to the Company in accordance The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all directors with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Massachusetts Financial of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were Services Company has notified a decrease in their holding to 10.95%.
Artisan in place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report there are such Partners Limited Partnership has notified an increase in their holding to 10.37%.
indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, as a director or As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings employee, subject always to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. in the Company other than those noted above.
The Group operates pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and Statement on corporate governance death benefits for employees and former employees of the Group.
The corporate The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report trustee of the pension schemes is IMI Pensions Trust Limited, a subsidiary of the on pages 54 to 59 and are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31 Employee engagement and diversity December 2018 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
These indemnity provisions cover, Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have officer of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion.
Further disclosures relating to employee diversity, employee engagement and related The Group also has in place third party qualifying indemnity provisions, policies are set out on pages 38 to 39. as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in favour of certain Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report employees who discharge responsibilities for various wholly-owned subsidiary companies and these indemnities are given on a similar basis to the above.
on page 68 and in Section 4.11 of the financial statements on pages 130 to 133.
Role of the Board Health, safety and the environment The role of the Board is: It is Group policy to improve continuously safe and healthy working conditions to promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of its members: and to operate always in an environmentally responsible manner.
to understand the views of key stakeholders and review engagement Our carbon reporting gross tonnes CO e performance was impacted in 2018 mechanisms: 2 by the acquisition of Bimba: 2016 60,000, 2017 58,500, 2018 63,000. to set monitor the Companys values, purpose and strategy and ensure that On a like for like basis excluding Bimba, our 2018 emissions were in line with these and its culture are aligned: 2017.
Of the 2018 total, our direct Scope 1 emissions of CO, essentially gas, 2 to select and appoint the Executive Committee and ensure that the necessary diesel and fuel oil consumed amounted to 17,750 tonnes.
Our indirect Scope resources are available to them: 2 emissions of CO, essentially the emissions generated on our behalf to 2 to ensur e that the Companys obligations to shareholders are understood and met: provide our electricity, amounts to 45,250 tonnes.
to demonstrate ethical leadership and high standards of behaviour and to In addition to gross tonnes of CO e, we report CO e intensity relative to million 2 2 oversee governance, risk and the control environment: and sales: our result for 2018 is 33.0.
On a like for like basis excluding Bimba, CO e 2 to ensure that the Board has the policies, processes, information, time and intensity was 32.3 for 2018 which is an improvement relative to the 33.9 we resources it needs to function effectively and efficiently.
achieved in 2017 when restated on a constant currency basis 2017 reported figure of 33.4.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted We plan to drive further savings in our CO e emissions by improving continuously 2 a corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the condition of our sites and ensuring our processes are Lean and sustainable.
the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its Our CO e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes 2 committees and the Executive Committee.
Board reserved matters include all material emissions across IMI.
See page 42 for further CO e and energy 2 strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant efficiency details.
investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
Political donations In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework revised in 2018, the Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and No political donations were made during the year.
the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief Executive.
The Group has a clear Directors organisational structure and well-established reporting and control disciplines.
The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high given on pages 52 and 53 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes the Companys articles of association.
Each new appointee to the Board is in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their of performance.
In addition, the Companys articles of association require each director to stand for re-election at least once every three years.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the Code, all directors wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
141 Division of responsibilities amongst directors Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or Chairman: possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition setting the Board agenda and shaping the culture in the boardroom to the duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest chairing meetings and encouraging the active engagement of all Board members in any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
If any director becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict building a Board with a mix of people, skills, knowledge and experience and of interest, that director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then ensuring its effectiveness, including the quality of debate and decisions permitted under the articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
developing a productive working relationship with the Chief Executive The information is recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts seeking regular engagement with major shareholders authorisation letter is issued to the relevant director.
getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place Change of control There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may Executive, which is reflected in the IMI Corporate Governance Framework allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive and employee share plans.
Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, none powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the Executive Committee of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its likely in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans impact on the Group as a whole.
under authority delegated by the Board.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups main funding The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically resulting regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the from a takeover, although the provisions of the Companys share schemes include standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and employees under such any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense schemes to vest in those circumstances.
and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.
4R Chief Executive: Listing Rule Detail Section leadership of the Executive Committee reference developing business plans and strategy for consideration of the Board and of financial statement implementing the same communicating to the people within the Company the expectations of the 9.8.
4R 1-2 5-14 Not applicable - Board in relation to the Companys culture, values and behaviours, including 9.8.
4R 4 Long-term incentive schemes 4.11 ensuring the highest compliance and governance standards building an effective operational management team and developing the Internal control organisation structure The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal resourcing, talent development and succession plans control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Directors powers Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting Councils September 2014 publication, Guidance on Risk Management, The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
of association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors were authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in of the Companys ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
Annual General Meeting held on 3 May 2018 by the passing of new resolutions, Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings of the in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
The current authorities Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
Minimum standards will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are 9 May 2019, at which new authorities will be sought.
Certified annual reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group financial reporting Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and requirements.
The internal audit function, Group Assurance, operates a rolling purchase of its ordinary shares will be set out in the separate Notice of Annual programme of internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units.
the year, internal audits have been carried out in conjunction with finance experts from each division through the audit transition project.
This has enabled us to review Directors interests a wider range of business risks and facilitated a greater sharing of best practice The interests of the persons including the interests of any connected persons who across the businesses.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, and their Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 69 to 77. with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
Management of conflicts of interest Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews the operation of These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board corporate policies and controls including those relating to ethics and compliance of potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2018.
142 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report continued resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and internal audit reports The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Companys summaries are made available to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive operations.
The Companys wide geographical and sector diversification, and the Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business interruption.
Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made is not overly reliant on a few large customers.
Our largest customer constitutes to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal 17% of Group revenue.
In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces control system.
More information in relation to risk is given on page 46 under our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions.
the heading How we manage risk.
The internal control declaration process is fully embedded and enables improvement in control through bi-annual selfGoing concern assessments from all operating units.
Action plans to improve controls as a result Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the a going concern basis.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2018 and up likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of strategic report on pages 10 to 49.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 46 to 49. internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
facilities are described in the financial statements.
In addition, Section 4.4 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes Financial reporting processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and The use of the Groups accounting manual and prescribed reporting liquidity risk.
Section 4.9 to the financial statements addresses the management requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in of the funding risks of the Groups employee benefit obligations.
ensuring that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way across different geographic areas and industries.
The Groups forecasts that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
and projections, taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level of Viability statement facilities either in place on 31 December 2018, or renewed since, without the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have need to renew any further facilities before 1 March 2020.
As a consequence, assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into account the directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks the Groups financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual Report, successfully despite the uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 46 to 49 and the fivein particular, the Brexit risk as highlighted on page 47.
Such uncertainties as year business plan reviewed by the Board in September 2018.
Based on this have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the of the going concern assessment.
directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2023. foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2023 constitutes in preparing the financial statements.
an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability.
Whilst the directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer Disclosure of information to the auditor timing horizon, the five-year period to 31 December 2023 was chosen as it Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant aligns with the Companys business and strategic planning timing horizon and audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director is a sensible period for such an assessment.
It is believed this period provides has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make readers of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that to assess the Companys prospects although future outcomes cannot be the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future The Annual General Meeting will be held at Crowne Plaza Hotel, Pendigo Way, performance, solvency or liquidity.
A summary of these risks can be found on Marston Green, Birmingham B40 1NT, on 9 May 2019 at 10am.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website.
The five-year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the By order of the Board Companys facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under scenarios where its principal risks materialise.
The analysis considered both running business risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as John OShea one-off event risks such as product recalls.
The Board also considered the Company Secretary Companys ability to raise capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing actions undertaken to prevent occurrence and the potential actions to 28 February 2019 mitigate the impact of any particular risk.
IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 143 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors Report, the Strategic Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that: the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Annual Report which includes the Directors Report and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 28 February 2019 144 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc In our opinion: IMI plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the and Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards to the Group with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of IMI plc which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes C1 to C10 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Related sections 1 to 5 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 46 to 49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 142 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 142 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 142 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
145 Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters - Revenue recognition Cut off in Critical Engineering and risk of management override - Profit recognition appropriateness of provisions relating to loss making contracts in Critical Engineering - Inventory valuation - Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets - Accounting for the acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing Audit scope - We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 components, audit procedures on specific balances for a further 23 components and other audit procedures on the remaining components.
- The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 88% of Adjusted profit before tax, 79% of Revenue and 78% of Total assets.
Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 12.6m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our response to the risk Risk Revenue recognition Cut-off 1,907m, PY comparative 1,751m We performed the following audit procedures at 16 full and specific scope Critical Engineering locations where revenue is in scope.
Revenue at these locations represents 80% of the total Critical Engineering Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : revenue balance of 682m.
Accounting policies page 135 : and Section 2.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing page 93. of revenue recognition.
There is a risk in the Critical Engineering division We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party of inappropriate revenue recognition if deliveries delivery note documentation and customer acceptance.
are recorded within the wrong accounting period.
We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been The cyclical nature and value of deliveries results in significant shipments near the December appropriately recorded in the income statement with reference to IFRS 15 and corroborated that control of the products had been transferred to the customer by: period end and an associated cut off risk.
analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements There is a risk in all three divisions of of the contract: inappropriate revenue being recognised if there confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation: and is management override through manual topside journal entries.
confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history.
For the components considered as not significant to the Group we performed specified procedures for RISK MOVEMENT a sample of transactions within these entities to test cut-off.
Management override At 27 full and specific scope locations where revenue is in scope we obtained support for unusual and or material revenue journals.
Revenue at these locations represents 61% of the total revenue balance.
For the components we considered as not significant to the Group we analysed the monthly gross margin recorded and obtained and corroborated explanations for movements in margin that we considered unusual.
Cut off and management override For all locations we performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatements in revenue recognition arising from the risk of cut-off in the Critical Engineering division or management override through manual topside journal entries in any of the three divisions.
146 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued Our response to the risk Risk We performed the following audit procedures at 16 full and specific scope Critical Engineering locations Profit recognition where the risk of error in profit recognition exists.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : In respect of contracts for New Construction orders in the Critical Engineering division we tested a sample Accounting policies page 134 : and Section 2.1 of managements assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions of the Consolidated Financial Statements against historic experience and future production plans to determine any contract losses are appropriately page 93. recognised.
There is a risk of inappropriate profit recognition if We audited journal entries recorded by management to record any provisions required and investigated any contract loss provisions in the Critical Engineering unusual or large movements in loss provisions.
These procedures focused on loss making and low margin division are misstated.
contracts in order to assess the completeness of contract loss provisions.
For the components considered as not significant to the Group we obtained the forecast margin on RISK MOVEMENT significant open contracts at year end in the Critical Engineering division and investigated any low margin contracts.
We analysed the movements in the total loss contact provision balance and investigated any significant movements not relating to the full scope or specific scope components.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatements regarding profit recognition.
Our response to the risk Risk Inventory valuation We performed the following audit procedures at 27 full and specific scope locations where inventory 273m, PY comparative 251m is in scope.
Inventory at these locations represents 81% of the total inventory balance.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : We carried out testing of controls over inventory valuation.
Accounting policies page 134 : and Section We performed tests of detail for a sample of inventory items to check the accumulation of cost within 3.1.
1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements inventory, confirming the valuation reflected the products stage of completion including agreement to page 104. the physical inventory counts which we attended.
The valuation of inventory across the Group is We obtained evidence to support the standard costs used and performed procedures to assess whether dependent on establishing appropriate valuation only normal production variances had been capitalised in the year end inventory balance and material processes.
This includes the effective operations abnormal inefficiencies had been appropriately expensed.
This included comparing actual production rates of controls.
Management judgement is applied to budget.
to formulaic calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions.
We obtained evidence to support inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value by auditing If these judgements are not appropriate then the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory.
This included comparing forecast this increases the risk that inventory is product usage to customer orders, considering historical usage, historical accuracy of provisioning and incorrectly valued.
understanding managements future plans to utilise the inventory.
We performed clerical procedures on the formulaic calculations to evaluate the accuracy of the RISK MOVEMENT inventory provisioning.
For the components we considered as not significant to the Group we: investigated any significant standard to actual cost variances posted to the income statement or recorded within inventory and obtained supporting evidence for the adjustments: and we analysed the management judgement applied to the excess and obsolete provision and obtained supporting evidence where this was significant.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision.
Our audit procedures confirmed variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been appropriately calculated and accounted for.
147 Our response to the risk Risk Carrying value of goodwill and We examined managements methodology as detailed in section 3.2 of the consolidated financial acquired intangible assets statements, the models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to understand the 517m, PY comparative 429m composition of managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process undertaken to prepare them.
This included confirming the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : We also re-performed the calculations in the model to test the mathematical integrity.
Accounting policies page 134 : and Section 3.2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before an page 105. impairment was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring.
As a consequence of the Groups growth In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or lower levels of headroom we performed strategy a significant value of goodwill and detailed testing with support from our valuation specialists to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs intangible assets has arisen from acquisitions.
of the forecast cash flows including: There is a risk that cash generating units CGUs Assessing the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and may not achieve the anticipated business benchmarking it against comparable organisations and market data: performance to support the carrying value of Considering the growth rates assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and these assets leading to an impairment charge Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash flows that has not been recognised by management.
are reliable based on past experience.
Significant judgement is required in assessing the future cash flows of the CGUs, together We audited the disclosures in respect of goodwill and intangibles with reference to the requirements of IAS with the rate at which they are discounted.
36 and confirmed their consistency with the audited impairment models.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the Group audit team.
RISK MOVEMENT Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our year end audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatement regarding the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets in the Group.
Risk Our response to the risk Accounting for the acquisition of We performed procedures over key contracts associated with the acquisition, including the sale Bimba Manufacturing and purchase agreement, to confirm that significant terms and conditions have been appropriately accounted for.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : Accounting policies page 134 : and Section 3.4 With support of EY business valuations specialists, we evaluated managements determination of the fair of the Consolidated Financial Statements values of the assets and liabilities acquired and in particular the valuation of intangible assets.
We audited page 108. the key assumptions made by management such as the useful economic lives, discount rates applied and the forecast future cash flows.
Management are required to fair value the assets and liabilities to account for the acquisition of We worked with EY tax specialists and audited the accuracy and completeness of the current and deferred Bimba Manufacturing.
This includes identifying tax balances included in the acquisition balance sheet including the impact on the tax balances of the fair and valuing any intangible assets, which is an value adjustments applied in the acquisition accounting.
In particular, We audited the disclosures made in respect of the acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing with reference judgement is required in determining the to the requirements of IFRS 3 business combinations.
appropriate assumptions to use to value the acquired customer relationships, order book The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the Group audit team.
and the Bimba Manufacturing brand.
RISK MOVEMENT NEW IN 2018 Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: We confirmed management had used appropriate valuation techniques to determine the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities acquired.
Our audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatement regarding the accounting for the acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing.
148 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Group Adjusted profit before tax Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 36% 28% of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Full scope entities Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account the contribution to Group revenue and operating profit, risk profile including country risk, risk determined to be associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, 12% 24% historical knowledge and risk arising from change in the period including Other procedures changes to IT systems and key management personnel, the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known 52% 48% factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Specific scope components In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 141 reporting components of the Group, we selected 37 components, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Group Revenue Of the 37 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 components full scope components which were 41% 38% selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 23 Full scope entities components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
20% 20% Specific scope entities The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 88% 2017: 76% of the Groups Adjusted profit before tax measure used 18% 19% to calculate materiality, 61% 2017: 58% of the Groups Revenue and 78% Procedures on 2017: 74% of the Groups Total assets.
marketing companies 21% 23% Other procedures For the current year, the full scope components contributed 36% 2017: 28% of the Groups Adjusted profit before tax measure used to calculate materiality, 41% 2017: 38% of the Groups Revenue and 63% 2017: 57% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 52% 2017: 48% of Group Total assets the Groups Adjusted profit before tax measure used to calculate materiality, 20% 2017: 20% of the Groups Revenue and 15% 2017: 17% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of the specific scope components may not have 63% 57% included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have Full scope components contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision and Hydronic divisions marketing companies, which provided additional coverage of 18% 2017: 19% of the Groups revenue.
15% 17% Specific scope Of the remaining 104 components that together represent 12% of the Groups components Adjusted profit before tax, none are individually greater than 4% of the Groups Adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed certain substantive audit procedures relevant to the key audit matters as set out above, 22% 26% and other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation Other procedures journals, intercompany eliminations, foreign currency translation recalculations, and enquiries of management to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year The charts to the right illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed The number of full scope entities has increased to 14 2017: 13 and the number by our audit teams.
of specific scope entities has reduced to 23 2017: 25.
These changes predominantly reflect recent acquisitions and restructuring undertaken by the Group which has resulted in a reduction of the size and risk profile of certain entities previously in scope.
149 Involvement with component teams Performance materiality In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 14 full scope components, On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the one component which operates as the Parent Company was audited directly Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance by the Group audit team.
Of the 23 specific scope components, 3 components materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 9.5m were audited directly by the Group audit team.
For the 13 other full scope and 20 2017: 7.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to other specific scope components, where the work was performed by component the fact that the level of uncorrected misstatements in recent years has been auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us very low, the level of control effectiveness remains high, there are no significant to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for changes in circumstances of the business, and there are no events outside of our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Where relevant, this includes review of the normal course of business.
significant and higher risk component audit working papers.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his delegate visit percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for the majority of full and specific scope locations at least once every three years.
each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to During 2018 visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that teams in USA and Mexico, Italy, Germany, India and China.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated meeting with our local component team to discuss and direct their audit to components was 0.45m to 2.16m 2017: 0.45m to 1.55m.
approach, reviewing and understanding the significant audit findings in response to the key audit matters including revenue recognition, profit recognition and Reporting threshold inventory valuation, holding meetings with local management, undertaking factory An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as tours and obtaining updates on local regulatory matters including tax, pensions being clearly trivial.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2017: 0.5m as well as with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Other information Materiality The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 79, other than the financial statements and our auditors The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not We determined materiality for the Group to be 12.6 million 2017: 10.0 million express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
which is 5% of Adjusted profit before tax in 2018.
In 2017 materiality was set In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is as 5% of profit before tax adjusted for certain non-recurring items.
We believe to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other that adjusted profit before tax is the most relevant performance measure to the information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our stakeholders of the entity and therefore have determined materiality based on this number.
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 11.8 million we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the 2017: 9.2 million, which is 2% 2017: 2% of equity shareholders funds.
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
150 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc continued In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due that those items meet the following conditions: to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 143 an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially these financial statements.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 60 to 63 Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not detecting irregularities, including fraud appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material Governance Code set out on page 55 misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant entity and management.
provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our approach was as follows: Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared may have an effect on the determination of the amount and disclosure in is consistent with the financial statements: and the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in and those laws and regulations relating to health and safety and accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We understood how IMI plc is complying with those frameworks by making Matters on which we are required to report by exception enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence visited by us: or the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programmes and controls the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors records and returns: or those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These or procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud we have not received all the information and explanations we require for or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify Responsibilities of directors non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 143, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, internal audit, statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the divisional management and full and specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: https: www.
the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going This description forms part of our auditors report.
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
151 Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed as auditor by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter on 27 July 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 3 May 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is ten years, covering the years ending 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 28 February 2019 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
152 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company balance sheet at 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C5 173.2 173.2 Current assets Debtors C6 418.1 282.9 Deferred tax assets C7 2.2 2.7 Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 3.8 420.6 289.4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 4.3 4.3 Net current assets 416.3 285.1 Total assets less current liabilities 589.5 458.3 Net assets 589.5 458.3 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.8 81.8 Share premium account 13.3 12.7 Capital redemption reserve 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account 320.0 189.4 Equity shareholders funds 589.5 458.3 Approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 153 Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2017 81.8 12.1 174.4 272.2 540.5 Retained profit for the year 17.4 17.4 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 105.5 105.5 Shares issued in the year - 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments 8.0 8.0 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 2.7 2.7 At 31 December 2017 81.8 12.7 174.4 189.4 458.3 Retained profit for the year 237.5 237.5 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 107.9 107.9 Shares issued in the year - 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments 7.0 7.0 Shares acquired for : employee share scheme trust 6.0 6.0 At 31 December 2018 81.8 13.3 174.4 320.0 589.5 Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in Section 4.10 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C4.
All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are considered to be distributable reserves.
154 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company notes to the financial statements C1.
Significant accounting policies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are otherwise noted below: expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A Basis of accounting deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in Section 4.11 to the Group financial statements.
The fair The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options FRS 101: is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is a the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-based no net charge recorded in the Companys financial statements.
The recharged Payment: amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
b the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference c the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market d the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Nonto present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options at e the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f and 134-136 of IAS 1: the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
f the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number g the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
h the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable i the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, when the options are exercised.
provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
Related party transactions with the Companys key Treasury shares management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares 68 to 79 and in Section 5.2 on page 134 of the Group financial statements.
is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
Consideration Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share The preparation of financial statements requires management to make premium.
If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for reserve.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of income and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means treasury shares.
that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Dividends Foreign currencies Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is sterling.
that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the discretion Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in ruling at the date of transaction.
the notes to the financial statements.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been C2.
Remuneration of directors translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages Investments 68 to 79, Section 5.2 and Section 2.1.
3 of the Group financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for C3.
Staff numbers and costs impairment.
The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the nominal The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the Companies the year was 26 2017: 26 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
Act 2006 applies or c in all other cases the market value of the Companys The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit schemes in which the assets are held independently.
The total net defined Taxation benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account in accordance with IAS 19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised in the taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of Companys financial statements.
Section 4.11 to the Group financial statements certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
provides further details regarding the defined benefit schemes.
Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2018 2017 m m Prior year final dividend paid - 25.2p per qualifying ordinary share 2017: 24.7p 68.3 67.0 Current year interim dividend paid - 14.6p per qualifying ordinary share 2017: 14.2p 39.6 38.5 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 107.9 105.5 Dividends paid in the year of 107.9m represent 39.8p per share 2017: 38.9p.
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2018 2017 m m Current year final dividend - 26.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2017: 25.2p 70.4 68.3 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid.
This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets - investments Subsidiary undertakings 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018 cost and net book value 173.2 173.2 Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2018 are shown on pages 157 to 160.
Debtors 2018 2017 m m Falling due for payment after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 313.9 170.5 Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 104.2 112.4 418.1 282.9 C7.
Deferred tax 2018 2017 m m The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Employee benefits and share based payments 2.2 2.7 Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet 2.2 2.7 Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2018 2.7 1.1 Deferred tax credit in the profit and loss account 0.4 1.3 Deferred tax credit in equity 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2018 2.2 2.7 Changes to the rate of UK corporation tax were substantively enacted in 2016 to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to reverse, which is mainly 17% 2017: 17%.
156 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company notes to the financial statements continued C8.
Other creditors falling due within one year 2018 2017 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2.8 3.2 Other payables 1.5 1.1 4.3 4.3 C9.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 42.7m 2017: 100.5m.
There is a right of set-off with three of the Companys bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
157 Subsidiary undertakings A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and registered principal offices as at 31 December 2018 is included below.
Except where indicated, the share capital consists of ordinary shares only.
The principal country in which each subsidiary operates and has its registered principal office is the country of incorporation.
IMI plcs effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH and IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd which are held directly by IMI plc.
The Group has interests in the partnerships, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership and the IMI 2017 Scottish Limited Partnership, which are fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnerships are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House.
Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, West Midlands B37 7XZ, FCX Pension Trustees Limited, United Kingdom Holford Estates Limited, IMI CIF Trustee Limited, IMI Deutschland Limited, IMI Euro Finance Limited, IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited, IMI Germany Limited, IMI Group Limited, IMI Kynoch Limited, IMI Marston Limited, IMI Overseas Investments Limited, IMI Pensions Trust Limited, IMI plc, IMI Precision Engineering Limited, IMI Property Investments Limited, IMI Refiners Limited, IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited, IMI Sweden Finance Limited, IMI Vision Limited, Liquick 211 Limited, Truflo Group Limited, Truflo International Limited, Truflo Investments Limited IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH, Bruckstrasse 93, 46519 Alpen, Germany IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH, IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG, Norgren GmbH IMI Americas Inc, 5400 South Delaware Street, Littleton, CO 80120, United States IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc, Norgren Inc IMI Australia Pty Ltd, 33 South Corporate Avenue, Rowville VIC 3178, Australia IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd, Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited IMI Holding Italy S. R. L. Via Stendhal, 65, 20144 Milano, Italy Orton S. R. L. Truflo Rona S. R. L. Bimba Manufacturing Company, 25150 S. Governors Hwy, University Park, IL 60484, United States Bimba Properties, Inc. Heimeier GmbH, Voellinghauser Weg 2, 59597 Erwitte, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland GmbH IMI Aero-Dynamiek BVBA, Boomsesteenweg 28, B 2627 Schelle, Belgium IMI Hydronic Engineering NV IMI Components Limited, Westwood Road, Birmingham, B6 7JF, United Kingdom Truflo Marine Limited IMI Finance SA, Route fide Crassier 19, Lake Geneva Business Park, 1262 Eysins, Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA IMI Hydronic Engineering A S, Vesterlundvej 18, DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Norgren A S IMI Hydronic Engineering BV, Rntgenweg 20, Alphen aan den Rijn, NL-2408 AB, Netherlands IMI Netherlands Holdings BV 158 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Subsidiary undertakings continued IMI Scotland Limited, 15 Atholl Crescent, Edinburgh EH3 8HA, United Kingdom The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership Lakeside Finance Unlimited Company, 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland Lakeside Treasury Unlimited Company Norgren Co Limited, Building 3, No.
1885, Duhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd Norgren Manufacturing fide Mexico SA fide CV, AV fide la Montana 120, Parque Industrial Queretaro, Santiago fide Queretaro, Queretaro, Norgren SA fide CV CP 76220, Mexico Valves Holding GmbH, Bertramsweg 6, 52355 Dren, Germany Z & J Technologies GmbH Acro Associates, Inc. 1990 Olivera Rd.
A Concord CA 94520, United States AFA Controls LLC CSC, Corporation Trust Centre, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, United States Bopp & Reuther Valves GmbH Carl-Reuther Str.
1, 68305 Mannheim, Germany Brookvale International Insurance Limited Clarendon House, Church Street, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda Buschjost GmbH Detmolder Strasse 256, 32545 Bad Oeynhausen, Germany CCI AG Fabrikstrasse 10, 8370 Sirnach, Switzerland CCI America do Sul Comercio fide Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Rua Itapeva, 286 cjs 95 96 97, Sao Paulo, 01332-000, Brazil CCI Asia Pacific Pte Ltd 29 International Business Park, ACER Building, Tower A, #04-01, Singapore, 609923, Singapore CCI Czech Republic s. r. o. K Letiti 1804 3, lapanice, 62700, Czech Republic CCI Flow Control Shanghai Co Ltd Room 108, Unit 15, 159 Tian Zhou Road, Cao He Jing Development Zone, Shanghai, 200233, China CCI International Limited Unit A3 Brookside Business Park, Greengate, Middleton, Manchester, M24 1GS, United Kingdom CCI Italy S. R. L. Via Leopardi 26, 20123, Milan, Italy CCI Limited 14 Dangdong 2-ro, Munsan-eup, Paju-si, Gyeonggi-do, 10816, Republic of Korea CCI Valve Technology AB Industrigatan 1-3, Box 603, 661 29 Sffle, Sweden CCI Valve Technology GmbH Lembckgasse 63 1, 1230 Wien, Austria Control Component India Pvt Limited Ground, 1st & 2nd Floor, Tower 4, SJR i park, Plot # 13 14&15, EPIP Zone Phase 1, Whitefield Road, Bangalore 560066, India Control Components Inc 22591 Avenida Empresa, Rancho Santa Margarita CA 92688, United States FAS Medic SA Route fide Bossonnens 2, 1607, Palezieux, Switzerland Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Stuttgarter Strae 120, 70736 Fellbach, Germany Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Untere Talstrasse 65, 71263 Weil der Stadt, Germany IMI Aero-Dynamiek BV Havenstraat 9, 3861 VS, Nijkerk, Netherlands IMI CCI South Africa Pty Ltd 18 Van Rensburg North Avenue, Ext 66, Witbank, 1035, South Africa IMI Consulting Shanghai Co Limited Units 03,06 9 Floor, No.
500 Fushan Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China IMI Critical Engineering Shanghai Company Limited B3-2, No.
303, Xinke Road, Qingpu District, Shanghai, 201707 China IMI Critical FZE Office No.
FZJOA1308, FZJ0A1310, FZJ0A1307A, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates IMI Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Annedalsvgen 9, 22764, Lund, Sweden IMI Engineering Sdn.
9, Jalan Stesen Sentral 5, Kuala Lumpur Sentral, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia IMI France SARL 52 Boulevard fide Sbastopol, 75003 Paris, France IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri Ltd Sti Atasehir Bulvari Ata Carsi no.
50-59, Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey IMI Holdings LLC 101 Broadway Street West, Suite 204, Osseo, MN 55369, United States IMI Hydronic Engineering AB Annelund, SE-524 80, Ljung, Sweden IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Glynitveien 7, Ski, N-1400, Norway IMI Hydronic Engineering China Room 360, Xin Mao Building, No 2 Tai Zhong Nan Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 200131 China 159 IMI Hydronic Engineering France S. A.
13, rue fide la Perdrix - Les Flamants 8, Paris Nord II BP84004, Tremblay-en-France, 95931, France IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE Office 1307-10 Jafza One, JAFZA PO Box 262611, Dubai, United Arab Emirates IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Industriestrasse 9, Objekt 5, 2353, Guntramsdorf, Austria IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc 8908 Governors Row, Dallas TX 75247, United States IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited Unit 3 Nimbus Park, Porz Avenue, Dunstable, Bedfordshire, LU5 5WZ, United Kingdom IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Av Fagundes Filho, 134 cj 43, S. Judas, Sao Paulo, 04304-010, Brazil IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Robert Huberin tie 7, Vantaa FI-01510, Finland IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd 223 Mountbatten Road #03-01, Singapore 398008, Singapore IMI Hydronic Engineering S. A.
9, rue des 3 Cantons, Windhof, L-8399, Luxembourg IMI Hydronic Engineering Spain SAU Complejo Europa Empresarial, C Rozabella, 6, Las Rozas, 28290, Madrid, Spain IMI Hydronic Engineering S. R. L. Via dei Martinitt 3 cap, 20146, Milan, Italy IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG Mhlerainstrasse 26, 4414 Fllinsdorf, Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB A. Juozapaviciaus 27-5, Kaunas, LT 45258, Lithuania IMI International Co Srl Str.
36, Sector 3, Bucuresti, 031445, Romania IMI International d. o. o. Alpska cesta 37b, Lesce, 4248, Slovenia IMI International d. o. o. Slavonska avenija 17, Zagreb, 10040, Croatia IMI International d. o. o. Beograd Milutina Milankovica 1b, Novi Beograd, 11070, Serbia IMI International Kft.
Kunigunda tja 60, Budapest, HU-1037, Hungary IMI International LLC Leninskaya Sloboda Street 19 b2, 115280, Moscow, Russian Federation IMI International s. r. o.
Central Trade Park D1, c. p. 1573, Humpolec, 396 01, Czech Republic IMI International Sp.
z. o. o. Olewin 50 A, PL-32300, Olkusz, Poland IMI Japan KK 6-2-2 Takatsukadai, Nishi-ku, Kobe 651-2271, Japan IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited 13-18 City Quay, Dublin 2, DO2 ED70, Ireland IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited B-30A Sector 85, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201305, India IMI Norgren Limited 137a Slaney Close, Dublin Industrial Estate, Glasnevin, Dublin 11, Ireland IMI Norgren Pneumatics Shanghai Co Limited 1st Floor, No 71 Building, 1066 Quinzhou North Road, Chaohejing Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai, 200233, China IMI Norgren SA Sociedad Unipersonal Calle Colom, 391, 2 Edif.
Tecno, 08223, Terrassa, Spain IMI Webber Limited City Business Park, Easton Road, Easton, Bristol, BS5 0SP, United Kingdom Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA 15 Avenue des Cures, 95580, Andilly, France Intek Products, Inc. 230 Executive Drive, Suite 127, Cranberry Township PA 16066, United States Interativa Indstria, Avenida Garabed Gananian, 386 Bairro Aparecidinha, Sorocaba, So Paulo, Comrcio e Representaes Ltda 18.087-340, Brazil Kynoch Sweden Holding AB c o IMI Hydronic Engineering AB, 52 480 Ljung, Sweden Liquick 213 Limited 2 Cornwall Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2DL, United Kingdom Mead Fluid Dynamics, Inc. 4114 North Knox Avenue, Chicago IL 60641, United States Newman Hattersley Limited 151 Superior Blvd, Mississauga ON L5T 2L1, Canada Norgren AG Fabrikstrasse 10, 8583 Sirnach, Switzerland Norgren AS Karihaugveien 89, Oslo, 1086, Norway Norgren Automation Solutions LLC 2871 Bond Street, Rochester Hills, MI 48309, United States Norgren BV Versterkerstraat 6, 1322 AP Almere, Netherlands Norgren Co Limited 120 34 M. 12, Rachedewa, Bangplee, Samutprakarn, 10540, Thailand Norgren Finland OY Huopalahdentie 24, A-talo FI-00350 Helsinki, Finland Norgren Ges.
m. b. H Industriezentrum No Sud, Strasse 2, Wiener Neudorf, 2355, Austria Norgren GT Development Corporation 425 C Street NW, Suite 100, Auburn, WA 98001, United States 160 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Subsidiary undertakings continued Norgren Kloehn, Inc 10000 Banburry Cross Drive, Las Vegas, NV 89144, United States Norgren Limited 6 F Benson Tower, 74 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Norgren Limited 15A Vestey Drive, Auckland, 1060, New Zealand Norgren Limited Blenheim Way, Fradley Park, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS13 8SY, United Kingdom Norgren Ltda Av.
Alberto fide Zagottis, 696-B, Sao Paulo SP, 04675-085, Brazil Norgren NV F Walravensstraat 84, B.
Limited 16 Tuas Street, Singapore 638453, Singapore Norgren SAS 1, rue fide Lamirault 77090 Collgien, France Norgren Srl Via trieste 16, Vimercate, 20871, Milan, Italy Norgren Sweden AB Box 14001, Ventilgatan 6, S-200 24 Malmo, Sweden Norgren Taiwan Co Limited 3F, No.
Taoyuan City, 333, Taiwan Pneumadyne, Inc. 14425 23rd Ave North, Plymouth MN 55447, United States Remosa S. R. L. Viale Pula 37, 09123 sede e stabilimento stradario, 03608, Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy SAIC CCI Valve Co Ltd 44% Block B, 123 Chongming Xiushan Road, Chongming County, Shanghai, 202150 China Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Ltd 229C, 2F, No 11, Lane 465, Tengyue Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai 200090, China STI S. R. L. Via dei Caravaggi 15, 24040, Levate BG, Italy TA Regulator d. o. o. Orliska Ulica13, Brezice, SI-8250, Slovenia TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Otto-Kaiser Str.
6, 66386 Sankt Ingbert, Germany THJ Holding GmbH Planiger Str 34, 55543 Bad Kreuznach, Germany Thompson Valves Limited 17 Balena Close, Creekmoor, Poole, Dorset, BH17 7EF, United Kingdom TRD Manufacturing Company, Inc. 10914 North 2nd Street, Machesney Park, IL 61115, United States Truflo Rona S. A.
3e avenue, 16, Parc Industrial des Hauts Sarts, 4040 Herstal, Belgium Vaccon Company, Inc. 9 Industrial Park Road, Medway MA 02053, United States Z & J High Temperature Equipment Shanghai Co Ltd 819 Yinchun Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, 201109, China Zimmermann & Jansen Inc 4525 Kennedy Commerce Drive, Houston, TX 77036, United States Treated as external investments Subsidiary audit exemptions IMI plc has issued guarantees over the liabilities over the following companies at 31 December 2018 under Section 479C of Companies Act 2006 and these entities are exempt from the requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of Section 479A of the Act: Company name Company number Company name Company number Holford Estates Limited 01181406 IMI Scotland Limited SC378424 IMI Deutschland Limited 07843551 IMI Sweden Finance Limited 07272731 IMI Euro Finance Limited 07929408 IMI Vision Limited 04421176 IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited 08528502 Truflo Group Limited 04430846 IMI Germany Limited 07843576 Truflo International Limited 00164822 IMI Marston Limited 00155987 Truflo Investments Limited 04430927 IMI Refiners Limited 00148305 161 Geographic distribution of employees The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2018 and is not required to be audited: United Kingdom 1,285 Continental Europe 5,590 Americas 2,673 Asia Pacific 1,206 Rest of World 213 Total 10,967
