Company Overview OUR PRODUCT SUITE Our core offering remains leveraged derivatives.
Thisincludes Our product range is designed to provide contracts for difference CFDs and spread betting in the UK and Ireland.
solutions across the spectrum of our clients trading and investment needs.
OTC leveraged derivatives Over-the-counter OTC leveraged derivatives enable clients to take advantage of changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself.
For example, a leveraged derivative allows a client to take a position in a financial instrument, either buying or selling, while only putting down a percentage of the value of their trade as security known as margin.
This is an extremely efficient way of trading financial markets over the short term.
We also offer clients access to a range of risk-mitigation measures, including stops and limits and a limited risk account.
Leveraged derivatives can be offered under the wrapper of a CFD or a spread bet.
The CFD is the most popular globally.
Spread betting is only available in the UK 1 and Ireland, and is a tax-free alternative to trading, allowing clients to bet on the price movement of an asset.
The size of a clients win or loss depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement.
1 CFD provider We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread 3 betting provider 4 We hold 45% of the UK financial spread betting market 1 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances.
Tax law may differ in a jurisdiction other than the UK.
2 Based on revenue excluding FX published financial statements, February 2018.
3 Based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report June 2017.
4 By number of active primary accounts.
All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited.
A HISTORY OF INNOVATION New office KEY opens in Italy.
First company to UKs first DATES First company launch an online dedicated in the UK to offer dealing platform New offices open spread betting spread betting for financial in Germany and iPhone app on the FT30.
1974 1982 1995 1998 2002 2006 2007 2008 IG Index founded, First UK company IG Markets Australia Launch of becoming the UKs to allow spread becomes the browser-based first spread betting betting on countrys first trading platform.
New offices open in the US, Spain and France.
06 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Our leveraged derivatives offering is complemented by a suite directed investors looking for a cost-effective, longer-term way of non-leveraged share dealing and investment products, to trade and invest.
suiting a broad range of risk appetites and investment objectives.
IG clients are able to access over 15,000 global financial markets While our leveraged derivatives are designed for sophisticated, including shares, forex, indices, commodities and other active traders, our newer offerings extend our reach to selfinstruments via market-leading platforms and apps that provide efficient, secure execution.
Share dealing and investments Launched in the UK in 2014, our share dealing offering has built on our pedigree in the online leveraged trading sector.
As well as providing our current spread betting and CFD clients with facilities to place their non-leveraged portfolio with us, were now attracting a completely new audience toIG.
Our share dealing service is also available to clients inAustria, France, Germany, Ireland, Australia and the Netherlands.
Around 80% of clients opening share dealing accounts are new to IG.
Our online, execution-only share dealing service is powered IG Smart Portfolios is a discretionary managed investment by the same market-leading technology as our spread service, launched in partnership with BlackRock in April 2017. betting and CFD offering.
It enables self-directed clients to It offers a range of portfolios designed to suit different risk buy and sell over 9,000 global shares and exchange traded appetites, each constructed from iShares exchange traded funds ETFs, with extremely competitive and transparent funds ETFs that include a blend of commodities, equities transaction fees.
UK clients can choose to trade within a and fixed-income assets designed to match the risk appetite tax-efficient ISA or SIPP wrapper.
and investment objectives of the client.
Exchange traded derivatives Nadex is our US derivatives exchange.
Nadexs unique, retail-sized contracts are designed to give US and overseas traders short-term opportunities in their favourite global financial markets.
With volumes up 13.6% in the 2018 financial year, Nadex was the first, and remains the largest, US-based retail-oriented exchange.
Execution only share IG expands its share Nadex.
com launches dealing introduced dealing offering into New online in the US.
IG Markets as a complement ISAs and SIPPs.
Share trading platform introduces PureDMA.
toour leveraged trading launched in successfully Offices open in Launch of our trading offering.
Limited risk rolled out across Sweden and insight, news and IGBank opened accounts rolled out our global Luxembourg.
2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Acquisition of the Spread betting and Sunday trading All-new online Mobile web Ideal CFDs business CFD offerings launched.
IG trading platform platform in South Africa.
brought together designs the first introduced.
IG launched, CFD iPhone app under IG.
trading app for Smart Portfolios allowing launches.
Introduction of forex Apple Watch.
launched seamless use trading via Meta New office opens in partnership from desktop to Trader 4 platform.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 07
