MARKET AND REGULATORY OVERVIEW SHAPING OUR ENVIRONMENT The global tobacco market is evolving as more and more smokers switch from traditional combustible products to less harmful Next Generation Products NGP.
The value of the world tobacco market remains significant at In NGP our priority is to transition smokers to the blu vapour approximately US$780 billion excluding China, with more than brand, a significantly less harmful product than cigarettes.
More than 900 million adults Vapour is the largest and most developed NGP category, with an still choose to smoke and will continue to do so well into the future.
However, an increasing number of smokers are switching to NGP, As this figure continues to increase it is essential that we work such as vapour also known as e-cigarettes, snus oral tobacco with governments, regulators and public health bodies to ensure and heated tobacco.
that the right regulatory and excise framework is put in place to This represents a huge public health opportunity that is support the conversion of smokers.
completely aligned with our purpose of creating something better for the worlds smokers.
NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS TOBACCO PRODUCTS We are actively engaged in the evolving debates and believe it While working with stakeholders to shape the NGP regulatory is vital that NGP are regulated in a way that enables smokers landscape, we are also engaged in monitoring and managing to understand the benefits they offer.
This requires a legislative tobacco regulation.
framework that allows NGP to flourish and gives smokers the As with NGP, we market and sell tobacco products responsibly.
confidence to trial and ultimately switch to these less harmful We adhere to regulation at all times, wherever we do business products.
Central to this, is regulation that allows open and have an International Marketing Standard that also applies to communication with adult smokers about the health benefits all employees and agencies.
It is published in full on our corporate of vapour products.
com Smokers should be offered a high quality vaping experience and We actively support reasonable regulation, especially when it the products they choose should be manufactured to the highest aims to reduce illicit trade and stop youth smoking.
Robust regulation that controls the production of NGP support appropriate ingredients disclosure and agree that and is supported by scientific expertise is essential for the tobacco products should display written health warnings.
responsible development of the category.
We continue to oppose regulation that seeks to ban smoking in It is also imperative that the sale and marketing of NGP is public or private places.
We also consistently warn against the handled the right way.
NGP are for adult smokers only and their unintended consequences of extreme measures such as plain sale to anyone underage should be prevented.
We strongly believe packaging which, combined with high taxes, fuel the growth of minors should never use tobacco or nicotine products and fully illicit trade.
support legislation that prohibits underage sales.
The consequences of tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting are The responsible approach we take is enshrined in our considerable: children can more easily obtain cigarettes, vapour Marketing Standard, which is published in full at smokers are deprived of the quality they associate with their www.
com and applies to all our employees, favourite brands, governments are deprived of substantial tax as well as the agencies who work with us.
revenues and the livelihoods of independent retailers With the NGP market still in its infancy, regulation is in its early are threatened.
stages and we are therefore maximising opportunities to help We are committed to tackling illicit trade, applying stringent define legislation that will support the growth of the category.
controls to our distributors and employing a dedicated team of As we engage with regulators we are experiencing differing specialists to lead our anti-illicit trade initiatives.
We also invest attitudes: some have expressed concerns that NGP could act in systems with law enforcement agencies to improve the as a gateway to tobacco for non-smokers, although this is security and traceability of our products and share intelligence not supported by evidence: others take a more positive view, to help disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes.
recognising the benefits of providing adult smokers with Tobacco regulation is largely driven by three organisations: reduced-risk alternatives to cigarettes.
the World Health Organization WHO, through the Framework The UK is particularly encouraging from a regulatory perspective, Convention on Tobacco Control, FCTC, the USAs Food and Drug with a number of public health bodies supporting the use of vapour Administration FDA and the European Commission through products, including Public Health England, which has said vaping the European Union Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD.
is at least 95 per cent less harmful than smoking.
We encourage these regulators to draw on our expertise when In the US, the FDA has said it wants to strike an appropriate considering legislative measures and oppose attempts to exclude balance between regulation and encouraging the development of us from the ongoing debates about tobacco.
innovative products that may be less hazardous than cigarettes.
source: Euromonitor International 6 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 6 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
