Chairman of the Board Skills and experience Mark is a qualified accountant, who brings considerable financial and general managerial experience to our Board.
Mark was Chief Financial Officer of International Power plc until 2012 and is experienced in managing relationships with the investor and financial communities.
He is also a former Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Alent PLC.
Mark joined the Board in July 2007 and was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2012.
He was subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board in January 2013 before being made Chairman in February 2014.
External appointments Chairman of Spectris plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of National Grid plc.
Chief Executive Officer Skills and experience Alison is leading the business through a transformative period in its history.
Having successfully implemented our tobacco strategy, she is now also focused on accelerating our growth in Next Generation Products, which represents a substantial additive opportunity for Imperial.
Alison joined the Company in 1999 and, through a number of senior roles prior to her appointment as Chief Executive, has made a substantial contribution to our international expansion.
Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007.
Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010.
External appointments No external Director appointments.
OLIVER TANT, BSC, CA SCOTLAND Chief Financial Officer Skills and experience 9.
Oliver held a number of senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, including Global Managing Director Financial Advisory and Private Equity Division and Head of UK Audit.
He was also a member of both the UK and German boards of KPMG.
He brings to Imperial international experience in change management, organisational restructuring, corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions.
Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2013 and became Chief Financial Officer in November 2013.
E 36 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
MALCOLM WYMAN, CA SA Chief Development Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Matthew held a number of senior roles Steven brings considerable international As a qualified accountant and former prior to his appointment to the Board as executive experience to the Board, gained in a Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller plc, Corporate Affairs Director in June 2012 and number of FMCG companies.
This includes with responsibility for the groups financial has been integral to the development and 18 years at SC Johnson & Sons Inc. most recently operations, corporate finance and development implementation of the Groups strategy.
as Chief Operating Officer, where he was and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only a responsible for managing their international wealth of financial expertise but also In his current role he is responsible for NGP operations.
Previously, he held senior positions considerable general management experience innovation, product science, smokeless tobacco, at Sara Lee Corporation, including as Chief to the Board.
Malcolm is also a former corporate development and corporate and Executive Officer of Sara Lee Bakery, and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the legal affairs.
He is also a former Audit Committee of Serco Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of Chiquita Brands Appointment Appointment International, Inc. and Hewitt Associates.
Appointed Appointed Non-Executive Director in October Chief Development Officer June 2015.
Appointment 2011, and Senior Independent Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Director in Director in February 2017.
Appointed Chairman External appointments February 2016. of the Remuneration Committee in July 2018.
Chairman of the Audit Committee from External appointments February 2012 to February 2017.
E Partner of Wind Point Partners and a Director External appointments of both Autism Speaks and The Vollrath 5.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director former Chairman of the Audit Committee of D N R Nedbank Group Limited, listed on the Skills and experience Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
KAREN WITTS, FCA D N R Chairman investment banking experience having held a Non-Executive Director number of roles at JP Morgan including Global Chairman of JP Morgans Financial Institutions Skills and experience 10.
JOHN DOWNING, MA Group, Co-Head of Asia-Pacific Corporate & Karen brings significant financial and Company Secretary Investment Banking, Global Head of Debt Capital management expertise to the Board.
She is Markets, and Head of US Debt Capital Markets.
Skills and experience currently Chief Financial Officer and Executive She began her career at Lehman Brothers and Director of Kingfisher plc and has recently been John is a qualified solicitor.
He joined Imperial in joined Chase Securities in 1997 prior to the appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer of 2005 having worked for the law firm Linklaters.
firms merger with JP Morgan in 2000.
Karen was previously He has had a number of senior legal roles in Chief Financial Officer of the Africa, Middle She also meets the recent and relevant financial Imperial including playing a leading role in the East, Asia and Asia Pacific Region at Vodafone experience requirements of the UK Corporate Altadis acquisition and becoming Head of Group plc.
Prior to that, Karen held a number of senior Governance Code.
He has considerable experience in positions at BT, including Chief Financial managing key corporate projects related to Appointment Officer of BT Retail and Managing Director financing, business development and other Operations Openreach.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2016. commercial matters.
In addition to his Group She also meets the recent and relevant financial Company Secretary role, John also has External appointments experience requirements of the UK Corporate responsibility for the Group's governance, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Governance Code.
Code of Conduct, security, anti-illicit trade Finance Committee of National Grid Plc.
Appointment D A N Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in February 2014 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in Appointed Company Secretary in June 2012.
Non-Executive Director S External appointments Skills and experience Currently Chief Financial Officer and Executive Simon has significant international experience Key Director of Kingfisher plc.
He held a number E Executive Director of senior commercial positions during a 30-year D Non-Executive Director D A Chairman N R career with Philip Morris International, S Company Secretary including in Latin America, Asia, Western N Succession and Nominations Committee and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
A Audit Committee In addition, he was President of their Next R Remuneration Committee Generation Products & Adjacent Businesses.
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2017.
External appointments Chairman of PharmaCielo Limited and Ambassador of Lancaster University.
